<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-1</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B011-171</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.7.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153614 text/html 26966
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:35:18 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:59:07 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 26717
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra17.gif" alt="Area Profile">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> SONORA </H3> 

<H4> Mexico's northwestern state of Sonora has a thriving assembly-plant sector
which features household US names including giants such as Ford and Sara
Lee. It also has active and substantial primary industries like mining,
agriculture and &THORN;shing. However there is little activity linking the two
sectors. Officials hope to end this by integrating the economy but closing the
gap is a challenge that is likely to prove a stern test for the state </H4>


<A HREF="#integration"> Integration equation </A> <BR>

<A HREF="#concrete"> A concrete advance</A> <BR>

<P>
<P>
<A NAME="integration"></A><H3> The integration equation </H3> <BR>

 <H4> <I>Maquiladoras</I> have brought
Sonora revenues and skills but they must be amalgamated into the wider economy
</H4> 


<I>By Charles Darwent </I>

 <P> Officials of the state of Sonora,
in the northwest of Mexico, face a challenge. They need to bridge a gulf between
the &thorn;ourishing <I>maquiladora</I>, or assembly-plant, industry that
dominates their economy and the primary product sector, which is based on such
activities as mining, fishing and agriculture.

<P> The cream of Sonora's economy is the <I>maquiladora </I>industry, in which
offshore companies import components duty-free, assemble them into finished goods
using Mexican labour and then re-export them (also duty-free), mostly to the US.
The sector, which accounts for about 90% of annual export revenues, is driven by
technology and bristles with added value.

<P> The vast majority of the 200 or so <I>maquiladora</I> operations make
electrical appliances and electronics equipment such as vacuum cleaners, cellular
telephones and computer circuits. And whenever a <I>maquiladora</I> worker
solders a piece of copper wire or gold foil to a circuit board, there is every
chance that the product in question will have started its life below the ground a
few miles from where he is standing.

<P> However, Sonorans will have gained very little from that because the
<I>maquiladora</I> plants are forbidden to sell finished goods domestically or
buy much raw material locally. The exclusion of the <I>maquiladora</I> sector
from the wider economy frustrates local people because they cannot exploit the
obvious potential for creating added-value synergies between the extractory and
manufacturing sectors.

<P> The state's second largest export revenue earner is the mining sector,
centred in the east. There, mines such as those at Cananea and Nacozari extract
ores of copper, gold and graphite and sell them in raw form to US buyers. "I find
it extremely frustrating that after a hundred years or so of importing, say,
graphite mined here, the US is still only buying it as a raw material," says
Marco Antonio Bernal, a one-time adviser on the state's mining sector to governor
Manlio Fabio Beltrones and now the director-general of Exploraciones Eldorado SA,
a Canadian-funded exploration company. "We should be making things here in
Sonora, not just exporting primary products."

<P> Francisco Obreg&oacute;n, who is development secretary for southern Sonora,
explains how this odd economic division came about. Sketching the often ambiguous
relationship between Mexico and the US, Obreg&oacute;n dates the problem to the
cancellation of the <I>brasero</I> programme. In '50s, the US began to allow
Mexican sharecroppers to work on US farms but the scheme was ended in the late
'60s. Newly unemployed returnees flooded into Sonora's border towns. The
subsequent scheme that gave birth to the <I>maquiladoras</I>, the <I>Programa
Nacional Fronterizo</I>, had been introduced as a quick way to create jobs in
response to the crisis, Obreg&oacute;n says. "It was never intended to be a
long-term answer to the region's economic problems."

<P> Nonetheless, what was meant to be a temporary measure quickly began to
dominate foreign investment inflows into Sonora to the detriment of its
indigenous industrial base. Members of Sonora's state government, including
governor Beltrones of the market-minded Partido Revolucionario Institucional
(PRI), recognise that investment from abroad has a crucial role to play in a
state and country starved of liquidity in the aftermath of the peso crisis. And
indeed, Sonora has racked up some inflows of FDI dollars.

<P> The problem is that the profits and value-added gains that the investments
produce tend to be re-exported quickly back across the border along with the
goods that they generate. This trend began with introduction of the
<I>fronterizo</I> programme 30 years ago and it still hamstrings Sonora's
domestic manufacturing sector today.

<P> An unintended effect of the programme is the creation of a north-south divide
in the state's foreign capital <BR> inflows. Because proximity to the US, which
Sonora's promotional literature refers to as "the world's largest market", is the
principal desirable trait for the average <I>maquiladora</I> business, bonded
factories have tended to cluster in a narrow strip along the border.

<P> The principal sites lie near Sonora's border cities of San Luis R&iacute;o
Colorado, Agua Prieta and Nogales, which is home to about a third of all the
state's <I>maquiladora</I> plants. The plants account for about 90% of Sonora's
annual export revenues ($3.5 billion in 1994), most of that generated by sales
into the US.

<P> The southern half of Sonora has had little in the way of inward investment in
the past three decades and a great deal of its workforce has headed north to
&THORN;nd employment. Such mass migration has created predictable demographic
pressures in northern towns. Labour turnover, which is estimated in some cities
to run as high as 80% a year, has become an endemic problem. "In towns such as
Nogales," Obreg&oacute;n says, "girls will quit their jobs because the factory
across the road is offering three free Cokes a day instead of two."

<P> The current administration has spent much of its four years in power
struggling to close the gap between manufacturing and primary business and
narrowing these regional divisions.

<P> In the words of Ernesto Cadena, secretary for economic development and
productivity: "We are primarily concerned that our industry should become more
integrated, that we should no longer be simply producers of primary products. We
want to see people who make things in Sonora buying things here as well. But we
also want to see the whole state involved in this process, not just one part of
it."

<P> Cadena can point with pride to an example of how things might be. In an
industrial park just outside Hermosillo is the Ford Motor Company's stamping and
assembly plant, the biggest single FDI investment in the state. The 112-hectare
site has been turning out automobile bodies for re-export to the US for the past
nine years.

<P> "When Ford &THORN;rst came here, it was in essence a <I>maquiladora</I>
operation," Cadena says. "It was attracted by fiscal advantages and low wages.
Now it is performing all kinds of value-added processes here, employing more than
2,000 highly trained technicians. And it is a mistake to think that integration
can only be vertical &#173; copper, copper wire, computers. Ford has attracted 15
other foreign businesses around it in the industrial park, producing tyres,
seats, paint, anti-rust sealants and other products. What is more, local
companies provide all of Ford's ancillary services, both for Ford's Hermosillo
factory and for the one in [the neighbouring state of] Chihuahua."

<P> Cadena has plenty of reasons to be pleased with the Ford story. The US
automobile manufacturer's presence outside Hermosillo rather than, say, Nogales
shows that the administration is moving on the right track with its strategy of
attracting investment by offering fully serviced industrial parks rather than
simple tax breaks to lure foreign manufacturers.

<P> The state has funded industrial parks in different cities and they are
encouraged to compete with each other for business, although the current
administration has stopped short of full-scale privatisation.

<P> Rodolfo Salazar, director of the Hermosillo park, believes that his site won
Ford's business because the city offered competitive advantages rather than
because of government handouts. "Each of Sonora's parks has something different
to offer," Obreg&oacute;n says. Hermosillo has gas and a railway, but Ciudad
Obreg&oacute;n has a better water supply and talented people, he adds.

<P><B> The pulling power of the parks </B> <P> With his job of trying to attract
FDI inflows away from the border, Obreg&oacute;n is especially heartened by the
pulling power of new industrial parks in the state's interior. The southern city
of Ciudad Obreg&oacute;n built an industrial park and gained a regional
sub-office in Sonora's economic secretariat two years ago. Since then the number
of foreign-owned facilities within its purlieu has risen from two to five.

<P> This may not sound like a startling number but the new arrivals are blue-chip
names: most notable among them are Sara Lee and Digital Imaging &amp;
Technologies (DI&amp;T). Obreg&oacute;n is especially encouraged by the
investment from DI&amp;T, which is aimed at creating a global image processing
centre. Documents generated by Bank of America, UPS, Federal Express and others
will be beamed to DI&amp;T's Ciudad Obreg&oacute;n centre via its own satellite
earth station. The facility will "put 900 girls on 450 computers and teach them
how to use them", Obreg&oacute;n says.

<P> This expansion of the local skills pool is also central to Cadena's vision of
a brave new Sonora. "We are certainly not going to close the doors to traditional
low-tech investment," he says. "Textile manufacturers will still be very welcome
here." All the same, more bells are rung by names such as Daewoo, the Korean
company that is now assembling consumer electronic equipment such as
video-cassette recorders, televisions and microwave ovens in Sonora's border
region.

<P> Obreg&oacute;n, too, is adamant that the state's future lies in the sunlit
uplands of the silicon chip. "We have the second-highest level of education in
Mexico after Monterrey," he notes. "That shows in the quality of our workforce."
Yasaki, an electronics <I>maquiladora</I> operation based in Ciudad
Obreg&oacute;n, has just been given Chrysler's Gold Penta Star achievement award,
Cadena says. "This means that Chrysler recognises Yasaki as one of the top 10 of
its 3,000-plus suppliers worldwide. You don't win that kind of recognition just
by supplying a whole load of cheap Mexican labour."

<P> Southern Sonora is especially keen to attract investment that depends on a
skilled workforce because the area cannot offer the easy access to the US that
the border towns can. "The fact that we are 350 miles from the US border means
extra costs, possibly up to $600 a load," Obreg&oacute;n says.

<P> "If you are in the kind of business that is shipping 25 loads a day, the
distance will probably be a consideration. But when you are talking about
high-tech products, the real question is the productivity and stability of your
workforce, not mileage. That's where we win over places such as Nogales."

<P><B> Skills and labour &thorn;exibility </B> <P> The state has already
attracted a world-class facility. Cementos Yaqui in Hermosillo (see below)
processes raw materials into a value-added commodity. The thought of more
projects like this brings a gleam to the eye of Marco Antonio Bernal, in his role
as former state adviser on mining and as an entrepreneur and foreign investor.
"One of the first things this new administration did back in 1992 was to pass a
new mining law," Bernal says. "The length of term on concessions was doubled to
50 years and exploration licences were doubled from three years to six. The
effect was huge."

<P> His company, Exploraciones Eldorado, is part of the sizeable influx of
foreign investment that followed. Sonora is now responsible for about a third of
all Mexico's mineral exports by bulk and a quarter as measured by value. Bernal
says this has come about even though less than 20% of the state's land area has
actually been prospected.

<P> Nonetheless, he insists that the state's subterranean riches should not
simply be frittered away in raw material exports: "Something has to be done about
the whole question of getting added value here." Eldorado has little to offer in
the way of useful add-ons: most of its business is in mining gold, which is then
sold into the US market in the form of dor&eacute; bars.

<P> However, Bernal cites other minerals that have rather more value-added
potential. "Graphite is used for a huge number of applications, from industrial
lubricants to drawing pencils. And most of those processes could be performed
right here in Sonora." One potential candidate for processing is gualastonite, a
non-hazardous asbestos substitute. Another is copper, the state's biggest mineral
earner. Bernal says that Mexicana del Cobre, the country's largest copper
conglomerate, intends to start a large refinery in Sonora next year.

<P> The state's mining sector is not the only one being targeted for value-added
attention. Agriculture and fishing were once the mainstays of Sonora's economy
but are now responsible for about 8% of the state's annual income. They are
dwarfed by its <I>maquiladora</I> and car-assembly earnings, partly because these
newer activities have tended to hog foreign investment inflows.

<P> Hermosillo's hard-pressed government officials are determined to change this.
It would take relatively few dollars poured into flour mills, canneries or
flash-freezing abattoirs to pay handsome dividends, and these benefits would be
felt most immediately in the southern half of the state, where they are most
needed.

<P> With such thoughts in mind, officials in Sonora's livestock ministry have
spent the past four years on an ambitious programme to bring the state's
veterinary and hygiene regulations in line with those of its northern neighbour.
With the help of US food and agriculture advisers, Sonoran livestock has recently
been certified free of bovine tuberculosis, brucellosis, borer worms, hog fever
and avian salmonella.

<P> The state's livestock secretary, Luis Colosio, says: "Sonora is the only
state in Mexico to have received US certification for these things. We also have
a natural cordon sanitaire [a mountain range] to make sure that these problems
will not recur. We are actively looking for investors, and now they know they can
come here with confidence." Sonoran meat is already being exported north to
Canada and the US. Products such as honey and poultry are expected to follow
within the next 12 months.

<P> At the port of Guaymas, two Asian investors recently poured $12 million into
a pair of shrimp-freezing factories. The port's business manager, Juan Robinson,
echoes Colosio's sentiments about potential markets: "Buyers in the US are very
fussy about these things, so we are already selling to Japan and elsewhere in the
East. Americans are not the only ones with money."

<P> Sonora's tourism secretary, Gilberto Gutierrez, is working to increase
traffic coming south from the US. Sonora recently signed a cooperation treaty
with the US state of Arizona to market the two areas jointly: "They have the
Grand Canyon, we have beaches." In what Gutierrez says is an "agreement unique in
the entire hemisphere", Arizona and Sonora now advertise themselves together
under the slogan "From the Grand Canyon to the Sea of Cortez". He says, "We feel
more comfortable selling ourselves alongside the US than we do with Mexico."

<P> Already, a certain amount of FDI interest has apparently followed. The
tourism secretary says two US investors are willing to put $100 million each into
developments in the beach resorts of Puerto Pe&ntilde;asco and San Carlos.
However, the lack of convenient airports capable of handling the resultant
tourism traffic could affect the agreement. Gutierrez also points to the putative
attractions of Sonora's resorts for retired US winter migrants, known as
"snowbirds", cheerily noting that the legendary gangster Al Capone once owned a
house in Puerto Pe&ntilde;asco.

<P> All these potential Nafta add-ons seem promising enough for Sonora's economy
yet it has to be said that they would do little on their own to address the much
more profound problem that lies at the heart of the state's economic structure:
the gulf between its offshore-dominated <I>maquiladora</I>-biased manufacturing
sector and its indigenous industrial base.

<P><B> Free trade at the end of the tunnel </B> <P> Nafta itself could go some
way towards tackling that problem although it is still too early to tell. Under
Nafta's free-trade protocol the agreement's three signatories &#173; Canada, the
US and Mexico &#173; will have to wind down remaining internal tariffs by January
1998. The end of those tariffs will, in effect, spell the end of Mexico's
<I>maquiladora</I> scheme: from January 1998, all imports from and exports to the
US will be duty-free, whether they are <I>maquiladora</I>-bound or not. The
products of former <I>maquiladora</I> factories will be sold on the Mexican
market on the same terms as on foreign ones. At the same time companies will be
able to source components and raw materials without any restrictions. Already,
rules limiting the sale and sourcing of goods on the domestic market are being
phased out in anticipation of the 1998 deadline.

<P> The question for Sonora and for the rest of Mexico's
<I>maquiladora</I>-dependent states is whether these two facts will lead to more
local demand for domestically produced goods and services rather than (as
heretofore) simply for their comparatively affordable labour.

<P> Sonora's economic secretary, Ernesto Cadena, says the process has begun.
"<I>Maquiladoras</I> have already changed in Sonora," he says. "The operators are
not looking for manual work any more: they are looking for skills, for world
competitiveness. We have a lot more than just low salaries to offer. After
January 1998, <I>maquiladoras</I> will be just like any other Mexican industry."

<P> There are still a number of questions hanging over the future of
<I>maquiladora</I> industries. Ford's Hermosillo plant has undeniably attracted a
cluster of other foreign suppliers, notably in the form of Goodyear Tyres. But
these "me-too" arrivals are unlikely to provide much in the way of what
development economists like to call "economic base" jobs: employment that is
based on actually producing rather than merely assembling local goods.

<P> Cadena may insist that Ford's Hermosillo plant is no longer a
<I>maquiladora</I> operation because of changes in the demands it makes of its
labour force. However, that workforce remains the principal reason for the
company's presence in the state: the number and quantity of Sonoran-made goods
sourced locally by Ford is still pitifully small.

<P> For his part, Obreg&oacute;n believes that this will change. "Do not forget
that we have trade agreements with a lot more countries than just the US and
Canada," he says. "We have treaties with Chile, Venezuela and a number of other
Latin American countries that our Nafta partners do not have. Logistically and
culturally, it is going to make a lot of sense after January 1998 for US or
Canadian companies to supply their Latin American markets out of Mexico."

<P><B> Gateway to Latin America </B> <P> There is some independent support for
such claims from Cadena and Obreg&oacute;n. Sinomex, a Hong Kong-owned toy
<I>maquiladora</I>, has been producing goods for the likes of US giants Hasbro
and Mattel for four years. Recently, the company also moved into small-scale
electromotor assembly work for vacuum cleaners. The operation is not quite on the
scale of Ford's but at its seasonal peak, Sinomex provides work for about 1,500
local people.

<P> Ramon Sosa, Sinomex's manager, is clear about his future intentions.
Disappointingly for the government model, he has "no intention of selling into
the Mexican market within the next three years". However he does plan greater
reliance on the Mexican economy over the same period, relying on an improvement
in the wider economic picture.

<P> "Sinomex had intended to be buying 30% of its components internally in Mexico
by now," Sosa says. "However, the problem has been that local manufacturers,
because of the economic crisis here, have been unable to make the kind of
investments that they would need to make to be able to supply us. So we have had
to slow down our integration plans accordingly."

<P> Sosa is bullish about the future of Sonora's vast ex-<I>maquiladora</I>
sector. Among other ideas, he is considering the possibility of manufacturing
products in-house rather than just assembling them for offshore suppliers. "There
are a lot of reasons to be here," Sosa says. A principal one is Mexico's trade
treaty with Mercosur, the common market joining Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and
Paraguay, he says. "For manufacturers making products of their own, it is a real
attraction," he adds.

<P> The people and government of Sonora must hope that the same rationale occurs
to other investors in its <I>maquiladora</I> sector, and quickly.

<P> 


<A NAME="concrete"></A> <H3> A concrete achievement</H3> 

<H4> Despite the peso crisis, Cementos Yaqui lifted export sales by
200% and increased productivity </H4>

<P> Those foreign investors seeking evidence of Sonora's talent for
adaptability and change should make a trip to the farther reaches of Hermosillo's
industrial park. There they will &THORN;nd proof in the vast plant of Cementos
Yaqui, which is owned by Cementos Mexicanos (Cemex), one of the world's top
&THORN;ve cement producers.

<P> When Mexico's domestic construction sector collapsed following the peso
crisis of December 1994, Cementos Yaqui's marketing men were forced to look
farther a&THORN;eld for customers. Last year, which was not the happiest for the
country's economy as a whole, Cementos Yaqui managed to increase its export sales
by more than 200%. Its products went by rail to the nearby port at Guaymas and
from there on to Oceania and the Paci&THORN;c Rim by ship. In 1994, 80% of
Yaqui's sales were to the domestic market and 20% were export. A year later, the
&THORN;gures were reversed.

<P> This was not the only change taking place at the Sonoran site last year. The
plant's head of human resources, Gonsalo Dojaque, says that Cemex was at the same
time using the facility at Hermosillo as a test bed for a pilot work-system
project that was to be put into operation at all of its factories worldwide.

<P> Developed by the US-based consultancy Louis Davis Group, the system aimed to
create new working practices to make the most of Cemex's huge investment in new
technology at the Hermosillo plant.

<P> Dojaque says that the goal was to make Cementos Yaqui a high-performance
organisation by getting rid of the role of supervisors and having all work at the
plant performed by self-governing teams of workers.

<P> "When we wanted to &THORN;nd ways of reducing our cost systems, the entire
process was researched and managed by the new worker teams here," he says. "When
we talk about multi-skilling in Hermosillo, it really means something."

<P> The results have been impressive. Twelve months after the programme began,
Cemex's Sonoran plant is "the most productive and cost-efficient of all of the
facilities in the group's worldwide network, as measured by all the usual
indicators," Dojaque says. Cemex executives regularly jet in from Madrid or from
Santiago to examine the site and to take home its lessons.

<P> Dojaque is especially pleased to point out that the changes at Cementos Yaqui
were all undertaken with the participation of the local unions. "When most people
in other countries hear the words 'Mexican labour' they usually think in terms of
trouble," he says. "However that certainly has not been our experience here in
Hermosillo. The unions in this plant did not just allow us to build this system
&#173; they actually joined in and built it with us."

<p>

</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-2</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B011-199</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.8.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153630 text/html 6837
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:35:40 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:59:27 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6589
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
 <HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3>FROM THE EDITOR </H3>

<H3> Perception is reality </H3>

<H4> Business leaders are harshly described in the debate on downsizing. But public opinion is unlikely to change.</H4>

<P>
 From the commanding heights of the us economy it is clear that the country
is in economically robust form. According to the White House's Council of
Economic Advisers, some 8.5 million new jobs were created in the us from 1993-6,
a phenomenon that outstrips the much-discussed downsizing epidemic. Nor were the
figures evidence of a new army of hamburger-flippers &#173; two-thirds of the new
jobs offered above average pay. 

<P>

 This is grist to the mill for the "you've-never-had-it-so-good" school of
commentators and economists. Assailed by years of liberal moans and groans about
downsizing, they have taken the offensive. The people and their media should be
happy, they argue. Of course, some workers are losing their jobs, just as they
always have. But even more are doing better. Were this the whole picture,
corporate America would surely reap its rewards not only from workers happy to be
part of a booming business, but also from shareholders content because of rising
dividends. The nation might be expected to pay homage to the triumph of business.

<P>

 Instead, the evidence suggests the country is ignoring the cheery tone of
economists such as Paul Krugman and listening to the less scientific but rather
more compelling sound of the press pack in hot pursuit of corporate villainy.
When the us magazine <I>Newsweek</I> has a cover story on downsizing titled
"Corporate Killers", it is clear that all is not well. 

<P>

 Why? In part for sound economic reasons such as more white-collar lay-offs
during the most recent recession and the increasing insecurity of college
graduates in a market that offers no guarantees to degree holders. In addition,
earnings growth has been sluggish and average real earnings are lower than in
1991. The pain threshold of the middle class is low and their screams can be
heard across the land. 

<P>

 They also scream from fear. In this atmosphere the experience of the man
next door carries more weight than any number of learned studies. This probably
accounts for the media interest. The focus remains the rocky path of the family
man in his 50s trying and failing to live out the American dream. 

<P>

 In the meantime us (and British) business leaders have been pilloried for
raising their own pay and bonuses. This presents a truly unattractive picture
&#173; "fat cats" who sack thousands of loyal middle-class staff and reward
themselves with a bigger slice of the cake. At best this is a considerable public
relations problem; at worst it is storing up conflict for the day when working
people or their elected representatives have the opportunity to take revenge.
This backlash could come from unexpected directions: it is reported that the
British Labour party's proposal for a windfall tax on the highly profitable
privatised utilities was also considered by the pro-business Conservatives.

<P>

 Pat Buchanan made a serious run at the Republican party nomination by giving
voice to middle-class economic fears. In Britain polls suggest that more than 80%
of the population believe a class war is being fought. As the European continent
shows signs of mimicking the Anglo-American economic model, it is reasonable to
predict a similar public response there. 

<P>

 Does this really matter? If it does not, business might as well abandon its
advertising campaigns. It is one of the mantras of modern business that image
counts. The appearance of chief executives in "Wanted" posters is not mere
journalistic malice. Perception is reality, which gives business two choices. Its
leaders can either fight (and probably lose) the public debate. Or they can
acknowledge that in the us and uk at least, business strategies born in recession
have yet to adapt to better times. Now is the time for executives to focus on
growth and to reassure surviving staff of their value to the firm.

<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-3</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-13</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.9.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153652 text/html 12268
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:36:02 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:59:44 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12019
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
 <HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> COMMENT </H3>

<H4> The multilaterals need a new de&THORN;nition of success if they are to
combine development goals with sound &THORN;nance </H4> 

<H3> For good measure</H3>

 <P> <I>By Makarand Dehejia, a former vice president at the International
Finance Corporation and founder of a non-pro&THORN;t organisation to promote
industrial ecology in emerging markets </I> 

 <P> Neither the World Bank nor
the IMF would have seen the light of day, if the creators of those Bretton Woods
institutions had shown the same concern for consensus as their counterparts do
now.

<P> A special task force submitted its paper on the future of the world's
development banks to the governing body of the World Bank Group in April. Because
of its nature, the report represented the lowest common denominator of agreement
between the Bank's various shareholder countries. But considering the brutally
fast changes taking place in the world today, it missed a key opportunity to make
bold recommendations.

<P> The only hope now is that Jim Wolfensohn, the World Bank's charismatic and
dynamic new president, will offer visionary leadership to the development
community. The international business world is also keen to hear what he has to
say at this autumn's annual meeting of the IMF and World Bank.

<P> At the time of last year's meeting it was still too early for Wolfensohn to
announce any clear plan of action, just weeks after taking office. Instead we had
to be satisfied with warm but nevertheless very fuzzy images of development
defined as putting "a smile on a child's face". Since then Wolfensohn's office
has served up a dizzying amount of data, theory and speculation, but no set
course of action.

<P> Wolfensohn is handicapped by having to tackle problems in the '90s with tools
rooted in the '40s. Another handicap is that we expect problems of a long-term
nature to be tackled by an individual with a five-year term, working with a
three-year plan and a one-year budget. All the same, the need for strong
leadership is greater than ever. This is particularly so in the domain of private
sector development, because thinking on development strategy has come full circle
with the emphasis once again on the private sector's role as the locomotive for
economic growth.

<P> The question then rises as to the most appropriate way for the multilateral
development banks (MDBs) &#173; including the World Bank group and the four
regional banks for Europe, Asia, America and Africa &#173; to play a meaningful
and effective role in this process. After all, they are public institutions
directed towards the creation and strengthening of public infrastructure and
services. In addition, private sector financial flows are once again several
orders of magnitude greater than that provided by all MDBs put together.

<P> The tilt towards a greater role for the private sector in economic
development is understandable and perhaps inevitable, given widespread
dissatisfaction with the performance of the public sector particularly in the
centrally planned economies. But if it is to work there must be rules.

<P> These should not only offer incentives to the private sector, but also pay
due regard to broader concerns such as preservation of the physical environment
and the maintenance of social cohesion. This last point is frequently missed when
officials quote statistics showing the growth of private ownership and investment
in their countries.

<P> As for the preservation of the physical environment, there are new
initiatives being formulated now in the industrial countries such as the concept
of industrial ecology which the multilaterals could usefully introduce to the
developing world. Everyone is paying lip service to the concept of sustainable
development, yet the systems now being transplanted into the developing nations
do nothing but perpetuate the waste-producing processes that are strangling
industrial economies.

<P><B> Learn from past mistakes </B> <P> It has been calculated, for example,
that the total input of energy to transport in the US equals the total energy
demand of the Japanese economy, 20 quadrillion BTUs. Of this amount, over 90% is
wasted in heat dissipated from engines, vehicles idling in gridlock and so on.
Such enormous waste suggests the need for a fundamental redesign of both products
and transport systems, since we are beginning to run out of resources and waste
disposal sites. The challenge now is to create sustainable industrial and
commercial systems and not just mimic those of the past.

<P> While the multilateral intermediaries are well positioned to work with the
public sector in developing countries, their ability to do so effectively with
the private sector is questionable.

<P> One key thing they can do, however, is to help governments maintain a level,
stable and responsible playing field. Larger flows of private investment,
particularly for capital-intensive infrastructure projects, are inhibited by fear
that the rules of the game could be changed unilaterally by the host government.
Such fears are based on experience: witness difficulties over a road project in
Bangkok and a thermal power plant in India, sponsored respectively by a Japanese
and US consortium.

<P> Profit does not have to be jettisoned in the return to development
priorities. Even in the commercial sector companies are shifting from maximising
product sales to delivering service to the market, creating a strong incentive
for durable goods and components.

<P> Development can also be fostered by focusing help on the informal sector of
small-scale entrepreneurs, using tactics such as strategic franchising. The
Kenyan government's foresight in providing a refrigerated warehouse at Nairobi
airport, for example, has made possible the growth of a dynamic horticultural
industry there which exports fresh foods around the world. The International
Finance Corporation (IFC) has already supported a Franchise Fund in South Africa:
its work could speed up considerably if it was able to provide custom-made
business plans as well as money.

<P> The agencies are ambivalent about assuming this new private sector role
because of uncertainty about who their ultimate beneficiaries are. They are
predictably responsive to the wishes of donor country shareholders, but the
growing effectiveness of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) is forcing a more
careful examination of recipient interests and the effects of development
assistance programmes.

<P> The dilemma facing the IFC, for example, dramatically illustrates the
problem. The corporation, an offshoot of the World Bank set up 40 years ago to
foster economic development by promoting private enterprise, is the largest of
its kind. In dollar terms it has been a phenomenal success and it recently
announced a record-breaking investment volume of almost $8 billion.

<P> Yet in development terms it could have done better, a criticism which must be
laid at the door of IFC shareholders who have imposed a number of undesirable
constraints. For instance, it is an investor of last resort and yet it is
expected to earn a market return on its assets. In addition, any IFC investment
must amount to a non-controlling share and it cannot take a management role in
investee companies. As a result, the IFC portfolio is skewed in favour of larger
enterprises in countries well able to attract foreign investment.

<P> Such limitations should not obscure its real achievements. In its early days
the IFC's experts were often called on to help create from scratch a country's
private sector, not just to fund it, and to generate a whole range of innovative
solutions to development problems. It helped set up a mechanism for setting up
foreign joint ventures, for example, which became the accepted model and promoted
reform of commercial codes to get rid of unnecessary inward investment obstacles.
In some cases it helped set up local stock exchanges, seconding senior staff
members as managers.

<P> In Indonesia it was there at the birth of the first modern private joint
venture companies in the cement and textile sectors. Today Indonesia is a leading
exporter of high-quality textiles, despite its lack of raw materials or
manufacturing tradition. The same picture emerges from its early work in Latin
America. For example, the IFC's early work on the use of sugarcane bagasse as a
furnish for newsprint production provided the foundation on which subsequent
developments were based.

<P> The early paradigm of quality for its own sake began to weaken, however, with
the need to maintain a high credit rating as it raised funds directly from global
capital markets. Given its current mandate and policy prescriptions, it is now
extremely difficult for the IFC to respond effectively and responsibly to
development needs. It has become an investment bank like any other, except for
the perks that come with its close multilateral links.

<P> The answer, for the IFC and other multilateral lenders, is to come up with a
clearer definition of success. Measuring commitment by dollar volumes is clearly
inadequate: so too is "putting a smile on a child's face". Multilateral
stakeholders must demand a measure that encourages these institutions to venture
into true development, with policies that anticipate already-familiar
environmental and social problems. The agencies can play an important role in
helping the emerging nations avoid the mistakes of history.

<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-4</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-52</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.10.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153717 text/html 12557
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:36:15 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 16:26:31 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12308
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
 <HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00001600 Economics -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> SACHS ON COMPETITIVENESS </H3>


<H4> As reforms continue, the giant nations that had been among the worst
performers are coming back to life </H4> 

<H3> The tankers are turning </H3> 

<P>
Recent research has highlighted that "small is beautiful" in the global market.
As ranked by the World Economic Forum, six of the seven most competitive
countries &#173; Singapore, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Luxemburg, Switzerland and
Norway &#173; have populations of 7 million or less. The economies of these
countries are small, &thorn;exible and very highly integrated in global markets.

<P> Of the large economies only the US reached a high position, taking fourth.
The bottom end of the ranking was &THORN;lled by lumbering giants. India was
ranked 45th, Brazil 48th. Last on the list of 49 countries was Russia. Each of
these behemoths had made the mistake of thinking it was large enough to go it
alone. They closed their markets to the world and ended up trailing badly in
efficiency, technology and adaptability in a rapidly changing world.

<P><B> Continental diversity and problems </B> <P> These three giants are now
struggling to reintegrate their economies and societies into the global market.
Each is experiencing complex zigs and zags on path of reform, as is to be
expected of continental-scale countries with continental-scale diversity and
problems.

<P> China's economic successes in the past 15 years proved that even huge
countries can change course and establish rapid, export-led growth, but it is
important to remember that China's reforms began in a society that was
overwhelmingly rural, without many of the complexities of urban, industrial life
that afflict Brazil and Russia.

<P> Nevertheless, the recent news from Brazil, India and Russia con&THORN;rms
that reforms there continue to move forward and even gain speed. On current
trajectory, these countries will likely rise soon from the bottom of the
competitiveness league. Each could consolidate market reforms sufficiently to
foster sustained rapid growth in the years ahead.

<P> India has had a succession of governments in recent months. However, far from
weakening economic reforms, each change of government has allowed another set of
political forces to con&THORN;rm its support of them. When the Congress Party,
which initiated India's market reforms in mid-1991, lost the elections earlier
this year the opposition Hindu-based BJP used its brief 13 days in office to
affirm its commitment to continued market reforms in India.

<P> This short-lived government was followed by the complex 13-party coalition of
Prime Minister Deva Gowda. Despite the bewildering array of interests and
ideologies, all 13 parties backed a "minimum programme" of continued
liberalisation, &THORN;scal prudence and opening to foreign direct investment.
This minimum programme was incorporated in the budget message sent to the
parliament in July by the reform-minded &THORN;nance minister P Chidambaram.

<P> The main cause of this broad-based support for reform is clear: the opening
of India's economy to the world is beginning to pay clear dividends. Revised data
for the 1995-1996 &THORN;scal year show that India has reached 7% GDP growth,
&THORN;nally lifting it into the league of fast-growing Asian economies.

<P> The country still has much to do to sustain that growth. Tariffs are much too
high, taxes too onerous, the budget de&THORN;cit too large, the state sector
bloated and in need of privatisation and labour legislation ludicrously
restrictive &#173; it still blocks the legal dismissal of redundant workers in
private enterprises.

<P> India's private businesses are &THORN;nding their way around the
mine&THORN;elds of government regulation. But it would be easier for them to
operate and sustained growth would be much more likely if reforms were pushed
ahead. Progress seems assured, but the pace may be frustratingly slow in key
areas such as privatisation and labour law reform.

<P> Brazil was never as closed as India and the country should &THORN;nd the
route back to global competitiveness far easier. But as the pessimists chorus:
"Brazil is the country of the future... and always will be." Reforms should not
be so hard, but they have been painfully slow in coming. In&thorn;ation raged
above 50% a year each year between 1979 and 1994, profoundly distorting the
banking system, &THORN;nancial markets and government budgets.

<P> Picking up the pieces is difficult. Although monthly in&thorn;ation has been
low for almost two years, the wreckage of failed banks and bankrupt state
governments continues. President Henrique Cardoso's reform programme, built on
the success of ending high in&thorn;ation in 1994, has scored major victories in
privatisation and further opening Brazil's economy to international trade and
investment. But the president has had setbacks recently, mainly in trying to
reform the vastly bloated state bureaucracy that is &THORN;ghting hard to keep
its perquisites and privileges.

<P> Brazil's top priority is to cut state spending, which still fuels a large
budget de&THORN;cit. Unfortunately however the de&THORN;cit jumped
signi&THORN;cantly last year. So far tight monetary policy has counteracted this
and in&thorn;ation has remained low. But the cost has been sky-high interest
rates, which threaten to tip the economy into recession.

<P> Moreover, these high rates are attracting capital from abroad, which is
driving up the currency and rendering Brazil's exports uncompetitive in world
markets, prompting some pundits to say that it could lead to a Mexican-style
crisis in future years. If the government can get &THORN;scal policy under
control by cutting spending rather than raising taxes, Brazil's powerful
industrial sector could again spring to life and it would easily be the location
of choice for investors in Latin America.

<P><B> Paling in comparison </B> <P> In many ways, the reform challenge in India
and Brazil pale in comparison with that in Russia. It must make three absolutely
fundamental changes at the same time: from empire to nation, from dictatorship to
democracy and from central planning to the market. Most pundits have said it
cannot be done, at least not within a generation. At times Russian leaders have
seemed to go out of their way to prove those pundits right. High-stakes political
intrigue and massive state corruption have accompanied equally dramatic political
and economic reforms. Respondents to the World Economic Forum's Executive Surveys
put Russia at 47th (out of 49) in the ranking for quality of the justice system,
48th for security of persons and property and dead last for tax evasion. The
question remains: can a lawless society rebuild itself into one that respects
property rights and the honest functioning of government?

<P><B> Corruption, not reform </B> <P> Although the answer is far from clear,
recent news is encouraging. President Boris Yeltsin's re-election reminds the
world that as ugly as the unfairness has been in Russia in recent years, today's
injustices rank low compared with the crimes of the communist era. Most Russians
judged that the pain of recent years was caused by corruption and mismanagement
rather than by the reforms themselves. Furthermore, there are three reasons to
believe that reforms will be better managed in future.

<P> First, the cynics rightly note that most of the good things to steal have
already been stolen. The &THORN;rst years of Russian reforms were dominated by
the question of who would own the vast deposits of oil, natural gas and other
natural resources. This issue is substantially settled: these resources have been
pocketed by political insiders and their friends. The owners of these resources
now have a great stake in macroeconomic and social stability.

<P> It is not surprising, therefore, that the battle over the spoils that
dominated politics during 1992-95 has in the past year &THORN;nally given way to
a genuine macroeconomic stabilisation plan that has weathered even the populism
of the recent presidential election. Macroeconomic stability was weakened during
the campaign, but it was not fatally undermined.

<P> Second, Russia is actually living under constitutional rule as the election
itself demonstrates. The constitution is undoubtedly &thorn;awed as it gives the
president excessive powers. But the new democracy functions despite its faults.
Furthermore, public calls for accountability are slowly forming the base of a
state governed by the rule of law.

<P> Third, Russia is being pulled, slowly but powerfully, into the world economy.
Globalisation brings with it profound pressures for institutional modernisation.
These pressures are evident in virtually all aspects of Russia's economic reform.
Moscow's burgeoning foreign trade strongly suggests these will continue to grow.

<P> Small reforming economies such as Estonia and Slovenia have been able to
reorient quickly and establish rapid annual growth rates of 6% or more. Even
larger states such as Poland, with its 40 million citizens, have created a
vigorous market system with rapid economic growth.

<P> It is the supertankers rather than the cruisers that take a long time to
change course. However the evidence in recent months shows unmistakably that the
large lumbering economies are turning. This is good news not only for the 1.6
billion people in Brazil, India and Russia but also for the 4.2 billion people in
the rest of the world all of whom stand to bene&THORN;t enormously from stable
and prosperous democracies in these three vital countries.

<P><I> By Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Harvard Institute for International
Development</I>

<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-5</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.11.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153741 text/html 20012
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:36:46 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:48:38 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 19763
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>



<H3> INSIGHTS </H3> 
<IMG SRC="images/wl.96.05.11.1.gif" WIDTH=91 HEIGHT=78>


<P>The World Economic Forum is today the foremost 
international membership organization integrating leaders from business,
government and academia into a partnership committed to improving the state of
the world. Through global, ef&THORN;cient, direct, personalized and highest-level
interaction, the World Economic Forum serves its members and constituents to
de&THORN;ne their agenda for action. The core community of the World Economic
Forum are the 1,000 foremost global companies.

<P> Incorporated since 1971 as a foundation, the World
Economic Forum is independent, impartial and  not-for-pro&THORN;t, tied to no
political, partisan or national interests. It has consultative status with the
United Nations. The motto of the World Economic Forum is "Entrepreneurship in the
global public interest".

<H3> Membership News </H3> 

<P> Members of the World Economic Forum are not
individuals but companies, which are represented at the highest level of
management. Each member should be characterised by:

<P> * its global dimension or the strategy to grow in that direction

<P> * a top management that is forward-looking and of high reputation

<P> * a healthy organization &#173; respected, growing and ethical.

<P> The World Economic Forum currently has two categories of membership:

<P> <B>Foundation Membership</B>

<P> In principle, Foundation membership is made up of the 1,000 foremost global
enterprises. In addition to the above general criteria, each is characterised by
the following speci&THORN;c attributes:

<P> * a signi&THORN;cant role in shaping the future of its industry and/or region

<P> * the ability and willingness of its top management to contribute to
international cooperation and economic and social progress.

<P> <B>Global Growth Company Membership</B>

<P> Global Growth Companies are some of the world's fastest-growing business
groups. Each is characterised by the following speci&THORN;c attributes:

<P> * a signi&THORN;cant role in shaping its industry as a niche producer, a
technological leader or an entrepreneurial innovator

<P> * the ability and willingness of its top management to network with
like-minded enterprises around the world.

<P> In order to integrate the advice of its members into the decision-making
process of the Foundation, the Council of the World Economic Forum has been
established.

<P> In 1996 the Council, presided by George Mallinckrodt, is composed of Rahul
Bajaj, Franco Bernab&eacute;, John H. Bryan, Hubert Burda, T. Neal Chapman,
Ronnie C. Chan, Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul, Hermann O. Franz, M. Sha&THORN;k
Gabr, Joseph T. Gorman, Cor A.J. Herkstroter, Jaakko V.A. Ihamuotila, E. Neville
Isdell, Donald R. Keough, Nemir A. Kirdar, Yoh Kurosawa, J. Martin K. Laing,
Gernot A. Langes-Swarovski, Kenneth L. Lay, Arne Martensson, Yuzaburo Mogi,
Minoru Murofushi, Masafumi Ohnishi, John B. Prescott, James J. Schiro,
Christopher A. Sinclair, Sarik Tara, Paulo D. Villares, John Zabriskie and
Lorenzo H. Zambrano. It re&thorn;ects an optimal sectoral and regional
representation of members.

<H3> France Meeting </H3> 

<P> Paris 5 May

<P> Forum members met once again in Paris with their colleagues in the Club de
L'Expansion. The theme of the meeting was Mid-Term Opportunities and Challenges
Confronting France. The guests of honour were Jacques Barrot, Minister of Labour
and Social Affairs, and Alain Lamassoure, the Minister of Budget and spokesman
for the Government.

<P> The meeting started with a speech on France's economic outlook by Philippe
Lefournier, Director of the Forecasting Centre of L'Expansion. He said that
recovery is not yet a reality even though the year started well with 1.2% growth.
The forecast for 1997 is brighter with an expected growth of 2%-2.5%.

<P> Minister Barrot discussed the government's determination to &THORN;nd a new
way to reconcile social responsibility and economic growth. Rigour will be needed
to encourage initiative and avoid misuse. He said that resources will have to be
devoted to investment instead of maintenance and that priority has to be given to
human-resource development to create a climate of con&THORN;dence. These efforts
should result in what the Minister called the triple-winner system &#173;
enterprises, workers and the government.

<P> Minister Lamassoure opened his remarks by recognising that European
countries, in particular France, are going through dif&THORN;cult times but he
stressed that a cyclical recovery is under way. The government has therefore put
new policies in place to reduce public spending. Rather than increasing taxes it
plans to reduce tax on revenues over &THORN;ve years. The public sector as well
as the education system will be reformed to adapt to market needs. One thing is
certain, the Minister said, on January 1, 1999, France will be part of the
Monetary Union.

<H3> Southern Africa Economic Summit </H3> 

<P> Cape Town 22-24 May

<P> In May, a large number of chief executives of international corporations met
political and business leaders from 12 Southern African countries in Cape Town at
the World Economic Forum's fourth consecutive Southern Africa Economic Summit.
The international business community expressed sustained con&THORN;dence in the
regional economy despite some uncertainty in exchange control policy and trade
issues between South Africa and smaller, lesser developed economies in the
region.

<P> The gathering highlighted both the dif&THORN;culties and the rewards in
developing Southern Africa as a region. Key political leaders from Angola,
Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe attended the three-day meeting, which
was held in partnership with the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC).

<P> "All of us have expressed an urgency about exchange controls. We have agreed
that they need to be lifted but I take comfort from the [South African] Finance
Minister's wish to take this step with a sense of responsibility and due care,"
said Neal Chapman, chairman of Southern Life Association and co-chairman of the
Summit, referring to Trevor Manuel, Minister of Finance of South Africa, during
the closing plenary session.

<P> Opening the Summit, Executive Deputy President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki
stressed the importance of cooperation between the region's public and private
sectors in order to "radically and rapidly increase levels of investment in the
subcontinent". Presidents Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique, Ketumile Masire of
Botswana and Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe also took part in the Summit. In line with
the development of Southern Africa as a region, the foundation's 1997 Summit will
be held in Harare, Zimbabwe.

<P> A highlight of the meeting was the participation of Frederik de Klerk, the
former Deputy President of South Africa who now of&THORN;cially leads the
opposition. "I am con&THORN;dent we will begin to establish a beach-head for
growth and stability in Southern Africa, which will in time help to bring peace
and prosperity to our troubled continent. The international community can rely on
South Africa to bring its part in launching Southern Africa as an exciting new
emerging market."

<P> Infrastructure is a priority in the endeavour to ensure a better life for the
peoples of Southern Africa. "Our vision is that come the year 2000, fundamental
transformation must have taken place whereby Southern Africa is classi&THORN;ed
as a newly industrialised, newly developed region," said Kaire Mbuende, SADC's
Executive Secretary.

<P> At the Summit's Closing Session, 10 requirements for attracting foreign
investment to the region were announced:

<P> 1. combatting crime and corruption;

<P> 2. gearing investment through bilateral and multilateral institutions;

<P> 3. creating integrated investment opportunities such as cross-border tourism
packages;

<P> 4. improving productivity by forging a pact involving government, labour and
business;

<P> 5. freeing regional trade;

<P> 6. devising a regional marketing strategy;

<P> 7. providing properly structured incentives;

<P> 8. involving the private sector in the expansion of affordable
infrastructure;

<P> 9. supplying information on investment opportunities; and

<P> 10. establishing greater regional harmonisation around &THORN;nancial
markets.

<H3> Mercosur Economic Summit </H3> 

<P> Buenos Aires 23-25 June

<P> The second Mercosur Economic Summit, held in Buenos Aires, took place in an
atmosphere of stability and common purpose.

<P> About 400 regional and international business participants witnessed and
welcomed the consolidation of the Mercosur trade area with the inclusion of Chile
and Bolivia as associate members on 25 June.

<P> The four presidents of the Mercosur nations &#173; Fernando Henrique Cardoso
of Brazil, Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, Julio Maria Sanguinetti of Uruguay and
Juan Carlos Wasmosy of Paraguay &#173; expressed their commitment to use Mercosur
to promote development, democracy and equality in the same way that European
Union members had done in their own agreement. In a frank and wide-ranging
discussion, Menem stated that the value of Mercosur lies in giving member
countries the ability "to do collectively what we cannot do individually".

<P> Looking ahead to an enlarged and enriched market with the inclusion of
Bolivia and Chile, Presidents Eduardo Frei of Chile and Gonzalo Sanchez Lozada of
Bolivia outlined their countries' priorities and invited senior executives
present at the Summit to provide the region with capital and technology to
further integration.

<P> The mood at the Summit was overwhelmingly optimistic, and business
participants were clearly pleased with the new investment opportunities offered
by an integrated regional market. Government leaders said that the creation of
one of the most dynamic trading blocs in the world gave them con&THORN;dence for
the future. Next year's Mercosur Economic Summit will be held in Sao Paulo,
Brazil.

<H3> Central and Eastern European Economic Summit </H3> 

<P> Salzburg  7-9 July

<P> For the &THORN;rst time, the World Economic Forum held a Summit concentrating
on the economies of Central and Eastern Europe, a market standing on the
threshold of rapid development and business expansion. Heads of states and
high-ranking government of&THORN;cials from 40 countries met in Salzburg at the
beginning of July and said they aimed to move forward with economic reform and
towards western-style economic structures. More than 500 chief executives
participated in the discussions.

<P> The signi&THORN;cance of the Summit can be illustrated by the attendance of
11 political leaders from the region, speaking in 11 different languages, in the
opening plenary on 7 July. Heads of state and government present included Sali
Berisha, President of Albania; Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz, Prime Minister of Poland;
Gyula Horn, Prime Minister of Hungary; Ion Iliescu, President of Romania; Thomas
Klestil, President of Austria; Radoje Kontic, Prime Minister of Yugoslavia;
Michal Kovac, President of Slovakia; Milan Kucan, President of Slovenia; Leonid
Kuchma, President of Ukraine; Andris Skele, Prime Minister of Latvia, and Zhelyu
Zhelev, President of Bulgaria.

<P> Most of the government leaders expressed their support for the expansion of
the European Union and membership in Nato as ways of fostering regional
integration. "The preconditions for stability in Central and Eastern Europe can
only be created by modernisation. The most important means of modernisation is
integration," Hungarian Prime Minister Horn stated at the opening plenary.

<P> Participants were clearly relieved by the outcome of the Russian elections.
However, the issue of Nato's eastward expansion was a controversial issue during
the three-day Summit. Despite some questions concerning the political
implications of an open Central and Eastern European region, senior executives
are con&THORN;dent in the economic and growth prospects of several of the
region's countries. It is on this optimistic note that the Summit closed, with
leading international investors sharing experiences and reasons for their
commitments to the region. They included, among others, Klaus Mangold, President
and CEO of Daimler-Benz Interservices and Member of the Board of Daimler-Benz AG;
and Choi Jung Ho, President of Daewoo Europe.

<P> Another Summit highlight was the participation of the heads of &THORN;ve of
the region's central banks in a panel on &THORN;nancial priorities. Among them
were Sergei Dubinin from Russia and Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz from Poland.

<P> The World Economic Forum will be back in Salzburg next year for the second
Central and Eastern Europe Economic Summit.

<H3> 1996 Asia Summits </H3> <P> <B>Three exceptional Summits this autumn will
bring businessmen up to date on the latest economic, &THORN;nancial and business
developments taking place in the most dynamic part of the world.</B>

<P> <B>China Business Summit</B>

<P> Beijing  16-18 September

<P> Bolstered by a sustained period of growth, China must now contain
in&thorn;ationary pressures and rein in the development of some of its most
successful provinces. Our Summit will address the most salient questions related
to this new phase of economic maturity and help foreign investors position
themselves in the newly reshaped environment. As the handover of Hong Kong
approaches, participants may also be able to assess China's new role on the
world's economic scene and its position among other markets in the
Asia-Paci&THORN;c region.

<P> Senior government of&THORN;cials, top Chinese and foreign experts, Chinese
business leaders, as well as senior executives from companies involved in China
will be the key discussion partners during the Summit, held in partnership with
the China Enterprise Management Association (CEMA) under the patronage of the
State Economic and Trade Commission.

<P> <B>India Economic Summit</B>

<P> New Delhi  27-29 October

<P> Following India's June elections our Summit will be a unique opportunity to
meet with key members of the new cabinet and thus help to relieve foreign
investors' uncertainties concerning the future course of liberalization.

<P> Two key issues to be addressed at the Summit (held in partnership with the
Confederation of Indian Industry, CII) will be identifying new opportunities for
partnerships and cooperation and improving the environment for domestic and
foreign companies as the Indian economy builds on current strong results,
especially in the industrial sector.

<P> <B>Europe/East Asia Economic Summit</B>

<P> Hong Kong 18-20 November

<P> "Partnership in Growth": the &THORN;fth Europe/East Asia Economic Summit
(held in partnership with the Hong Kong Trade Development Council) will
re&thorn;ect the enhanced business, trade, &THORN;nancial and technological ties
between these two industrialized poles and will thus constitute a business
complement to this year's government summit. Given the backing of EU governments,
European enterprises are now gearing up for overseas expansion in an effort to
boost their competitiveness in Asia. The Summit programme will draw attention to
some new trends in Asian investment in Europe. As the Summit will be the last
opportunity for high-level discussions before the WTO ministerial meeting in
Singapore, trade issues will feature prominently on the agenda.

<P> <B>Middle East/North Africa Economic Summit (MENA) </B>

<P> Cairo 12-14 November

<P> The MENA summit, which started in 1994 in Casablanca and was held in Amman
last year, has helped launch the Middle East/North Africa region on a path
towards sustained economic development. This year's summit in Cairo will showcase
the region's economic potential, emphasising that it is investment-friendly, able
and eager to compete in the global economy. It will underline the need to develop
both infrastructure and business links capable of raising capital, attracting
foreign investment and promoting trade and industry. This year's MENA summit,
endorsed by governments of 30 countries, will bring together almost 1,000 heads
of state and senior of&THORN;cials from the region and others who have supported
the peace process. Also attending will be senior executives from international
and regional companies, members of the World Economic Forum and experts on the
region.

<P> <B>Autumn 1996</B>

<P> China Business Summit, Beijing 16-18 September

<P> India Economic Summit, New Delhi 27-29 October

<P> Middle East/North Africa Economic Summit, Cairo 12-14 November

<P> Europe/East Asia Economic Summit, Hong Kong 18-20 November

<P> <B>1997 Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum</B>

<P> Davos, 30 January-4 February

<IMG SRC="images/wl.96.05.11.2.gif" WIDTH=91 HEIGHT=78>


<P> For further information on membership of the World
Economic Forum and on its meetings, please contact Claude Smadja, Managing
Director, World Economic Forum, 53 chemin des Hauts-Cr&ecirc;ts, 1223 Cologny
Geneva Switzerland

<P> Telephone: <BR> +41 22 736 0243&#009;</FONT>

<P> Telefax: <BR> +41 22 786 2744</FONT>
<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-6</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-137</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.12.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153842 text/html 17041
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:37:17 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:48:58 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 16792
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>



<H3> REVIEW </H3> 

<H3> Know your market </H3> 

<H4> Customer Intimacy </H4> 

<P><I> By Fred Wiersema<BR> Knowledge Exchange, $22.95 </I> 

<P><B>
<I>Reviewed by Alan Mitchell</I> </B> 

<P> Who says the customer is always right?
Perhaps when it comes to running a successful business it is better to assume the
opposite: not that the customer is always wrong but that suppliers know more
about their particular &THORN;eld of expertise than their customers ever can.
Combine that thought with a fanatical version of marketing's age-old mantra of
"know your customer" and you've got the formula for commercial success in early
21st century, Fred Wiersema claims in <I>Customer Intimacy</I>.

<P> The message from Wiersema, who co-wrote the earlier business blockbuster
<I>The Discipline of Market Leaders</I>, is that customers often cannot express
or just do not know what they want. So they cannot be "right". That gives
specialist suppliers an opportunity to worm their way into indispensability by
shouldering their customers' burden of having to be right, whether it is
explaining the potential uses of baking soda, showing the latest applications of
ball-bearing technology or tackling the tiresome task of stocking up with
stationery.

<P> Because suppliers are outsiders, they often see things their customers have
missed. They can "bring an entirely fresh perspective, discover unsuspected
problems, detect unrealised potential and create a dynamic synergy with
customers". In doing so, customer-intimate &THORN;rms go beyond satisfying or
even delighting customers to helping them achieve better results, Wiersema says.

<P> Most of the book tracks three routes to customer intimacy: tailoring,
coaching and partnering. Tailors offer made-to-measure solutions to customers'
problems. Coaches help customers get better results. Partners help their
customers achieve their goals by working together as allies and companions.

<P> Each of these models has a number of variants. Some tailoring companies, for
instance, offer bespoke solutions (such as Levi's made-to-measure jeans) and some
offer to take over a service for you (such as CIGNA Retirement and Investment
Services, which manages total employee bene&THORN;ts packages for clients such as
United Technologies). There is a difference between a coach who helps his
customer re-engineer his purchasing process or becomes a trusted adviser in his
particular &THORN;eld such as office-supply &THORN;rm Staples National Advantage,
which offers customers the chance to cut stationery bills by introducing
electronic ordering and just-in-time deliveries, and one who works with his
customer to open new markets such as affinity credit-card issuer MBNA, which
helps partners to create their own credit-card businesses.

<P> Finally, Wiersema outlines ways to create customer-intimate strategies. He
urges readers to explore the "why" of customer needs ("the problem behind the
problem behind the problem"), forget about "average customers" (they don't
exist), focus on their future needs and seek customers whose attitudes are
similar to yours and who stretch your capabilities. Having chosen these
customers, you should concentrate all resources on them and drop the rest.

<P> Many of the recommendations are now standard among marketing and management
consultants but Wiersema has pulled together many disparate strands under his
theme of customer intimacy. This is the volume's biggest strength &#173; and also
its weakness. For in proposing a uni&THORN;ed theory, the author succumbs to the
most prevalent disease of modern business writing: hype.

<P> In <I>The Discipline of Market Leaders</I>, Wiersema argued cogently that too
many &THORN;rms try to be jacks of all trades and end up being masters of none.
Market leaders, he claimed, win their positions by shining in one of three core
value disciplines: best total cost, best product or best total solution. It is
impossible to soar like an eagle, run like a cheetah and swim like a dolphin.
Similarly, you cannot excel in all three value disciplines. In <I>Customer
Intimacy</I>, however, Wiersema all but abandons that insight by implying that
the only answer is his renamed, revamped total-solution strategy.

<P> Perhaps. But the over-brief and simpli&THORN;ed case studies &#173; virtually
all of them from the US &#173; fail to clinch his case. And in his enthusiasm to
sell his new concept Wiersema comes close to contradicting himself. For example,
he declares that customer intimacy is a chance for "the rest of us to compete"
against the corporate leviathans such as AT&amp;T, Wal-Mart and Dow Chemical,
which have vastly superior resources, advantages of scale or r&amp;d skills. But
in virtually the same breath Wiersema argues that: for "the large or
resource-rich customer" it may be "the surest path to enduring success".

<P> Further, by devoting a whole section to dismissing other concepts such as
consultative selling, service recovery, recognition and loyalty marketing and
micro-marketing as "partial solutions", he weakens his case. Most of his
criticisms are of the "what can go wrong" sort. Yet customer intimacy is equally
open to misapplication. As Wiersema points out, it could prove &THORN;nancially
disastrous without the introduction of customer-speci&THORN;c methods of
accounting for costs and bene&THORN;ts.

<P> Overall however, <I>Customer Intimacy</I> does shed light on a crucially
important subject: the revolution in business philosophies, strategies and
structures as &THORN;rms shift from arms-length buyer/ seller relationships to
closer co-operation, even process integration, based on the search for "win-win"
solutions. For anyone struggling to ride these rapids, it is a helpful,
thought-provoking primer.

<H3> Crime unlimited </H3> 
<H4> The Economics of Organised Crime </H4> 

<P><I>
Edited by Gianluca Fiorentini and Sam Pelztman <BR> Cambridge University Press,
&#163;30 ($49.95) </I> 

<P><B> <I>Reviewed by Susan Strange</I> </B>

 <P> Why are
so many people, not just police and politicians, so concerned these days about
the growth of organised crime? Ma&THORN;as are not new. The Chinese triads go
back hundreds of years; Cosa Nostra was active in Sicily from the 1870s.

<P> The reason, surely, is that organised crime is now transnational. The
ma&THORN;as of Russia, Europe, America, Japan and China, not to mention the Latin
American drug barons, are linked across frontiers. They are pro&THORN;table and
rich and their in&thorn;uence encroaches on traditional sources of authority. It
seems there are many more of them than in the past and some are much too closely
mixed up with governments and banks.

<P> We all want to know how they came to be so rich and powerful, how they came
to operate as if national frontiers did not exist, and what should be done to
check their power. Answers to the &THORN;rst two questions are not difficult;
answers to the third elude us all.

<P> Ma&THORN;as became rich when they began trafficking in a world market for
illegal drugs. The old Sicilian ma&THORN;osi, exploiting poor peasants, were poor
themselves. It was only in the '70s that the ma&THORN;osi began to grow wealthy.
In just two decades the world market for heroin grew by a factor of 20 and that
for cocaine by a factor of 50. Structural changes in world technology helped the
market grow and also provided new opportunities for the ma&THORN;as to operate
transnationally, making it easier for them to elude police whose powers stopped
at the national frontier.

<P> It is curious, then, that a book about the economics of organised crime has
so little to say about the world demand for drugs &#173; come to that, for arms
as well &#173; and so little to tell us about the transnational character of the
business.

<P> Readers should be warned that this is a collection of papers by economists
for economists. It claims to be the &THORN;rst book to apply economic theory to
all aspects of organised crime. In fact, the idea of applying economic theory and
methodology to crime was thought of nearly 20 years ago by Tom Schelling, a
distinguished US political economist.

<P> It has since become an academic growth industry, as the 28 contributors to
this book bear witness. Deducing from the footnotes, they all gathered in 1990 at
the University of Bologna with the result that many of them are Italian.

<P> The Italians tend to be more eclectic in their outlook and better informed
about the social and political realities of the ma&THORN;a phenomenon than their
US colleagues with whom, obviously, the initiative (and funding) originated.

<P> In its favour, the book does represent all the major ideas of new
institutional economics, applied to the role of ma&THORN;as as quasi-state
authorities in the market. Some of it is pretty bizarre, as with the idea that
states are "kleptocracies" that use taxation to steal resources from society for
the bene&THORN;t of the rulers. This leads to the conclusion that competition
between a government and ma&THORN;a for resources will reduce the total theft so
that rationally only rulers and not taxpayers should oppose the ma&THORN;as.

<P> The book is not an effort in political economy that, properly speaking, tries
to synthesise insights and concepts drawn from a variety of intellectual
&THORN;elds. It is liberal economics playing its own games and applying its
myopic methods to a complex problem. The game-playing may be fun for the players,
but it does not help the rest of us to address with understanding and pragmatism
the third, pressing question, "What is to be done?"

<P> <I>International political economist Susan Strange is the author of the
forthcoming book "The retreat of the state"</I>

<H3> Breaking China </H3> 

<H4> Burying Mao &#173; Chinese Politics in the Age of
Deng Xiaoping </H4> 

<P><I> By Richard Baum<BR> Princeton University Press, $18.95
</I> 

<H4> China's Opening Door </H4> 

<P><I> By David Wall, Jiang Boke and Yin
Xiangshuo </I> 

<P><I> The Royal Institute of International Affairs, &#163;12.95
</I> <P><B> <I>Reviewed by Emily Spencer</I> </B> 

<P> Just before Chinese
armoured units rode into Tiananmen Square to crush the pro-democracy
demonstrations of 1989, communist party officials warned the students to leave
and save themselves. Some of them &thorn;ed, others died. No mercy was shown
towards the workers protesting outside the square and they died in their
thousands.

<P> This was no mere oversight, according to Richard Baum in his authoritative
and readable work, <I>Burying Mao</I>: "Students comprised an elite substratum
within China's paternalistic political order; even in contemporary times they
have been shielded from severe state reprisals in all but the most extreme
circumstances. Similar latitude has seldom been granted other occupational
groups, especially not workers."

<P> Baum, a political science professor at the University of California, Los
Angeles, and China expert who once briefed President Bush, has drawn extensively
on press reports, speeches at party congresses and on the views of other China
experts and journalists. He gives the reader a remarkable insight into the
complex web of Chinese politics with its factions, personal rivalries and
constantly shifting policy direction.

<P> He follows the twists and turns of Deng Xiaoping's reforms and highlights how
scapegoating plays a central role in Chinese politics. After the Tiananmen
massacre, for example, the premier at the time, Zhao Ziyang, was denounced and
dismissed.

<P> Paradoxically Deng sowed the whirlwind by opening up the economy and reaped
it from protests largely motivated by anger at corruption and excess. He ordered
the massacre. Baum explains that: "While pressing hard with one foot on the
developmental accelerator, Deng kept the other foot &THORN;rmly on the political
brake."

<P> All the same, there is a surprising degree of debate within the communist
party although direct criticism of socialism is beyond bounds. Fang Lizhi, a
liberal communist, said in 1986 that socialism was a failure and that "complete
westernisation is the only way to modernise". He was soon expelled from the
party, but he was not arrested.

<P> The party is also attacked in &THORN;ctional works. In the screenplay
<I>Unrequited Love</I>, a fictional Chinese intellectual who was branded a
bourgeois revisionist during the cultural revolution puts up a poster criticising
hardline communists and is killed by a radical mob. This was too much for the
party. <I>The People's Liberation Army Daily</I> denounced the work as a piece of
"anarchistic, ultra-individualistic, bourgeois liberalistic thinking" but the
Chinese Writers' Association gave the author its highest poetry prize.

<P> There is not much poetry in <I>China's Opening Door,</I> a specialist book
about the opening of China's economy and its effect on exports. The authors offer
succinct analysis, together with future policy suggestions.

<P> David Wall, associate fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs,
looks at the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) that give preferential treatment to
investors. Although hardliners have labelled them bastions of capitalism, Wall
says that the SEZs have been useful laboratories to help China experiment with
foreign investors. But he says that preferential tax rates have encouraged
companies to cluster in the SEZs even when they would do better to go elsewhere
in China.

<P> Yin Xiangshuo, a Chinese economics professor, examines trade policies. He
concludes that without simultaneous reforms in state-owned enterprises, wage
regulations and social welfare systems, rapid changes in foreign trade policy
could cause social chaos.

<P> <I>Burying Mao </I>shows that this is already happening. Maoism has been laid
to rest for now but Deng's economic reforms have loosened Beijing's grip on the
provinces. Some commentators have warned that unless trends towards regional
economic decentralisation are reversed, Deng's death could trigger a collapse
similar that of Yugoslavia after Tito. In 1994 Deng was declared mentally
incompetent. With Deng, in Baum's words, preparing to meet Marx, a new period of
political turmoil has already begun.


<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-7</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-174</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.13.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153910 text/html 13305
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:38:17 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:49:33 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 13056
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> TIME OUT </H3>


<H4> The business community is now turning to practitioners of alternative
medicine to treat its stresses and ills </H4> 

<H3> The holistic manager </H3> <P>
A few years ago the stressed out business executive would have reached for a
double scotch on his return from work. Today he is just as likely to swallow a
couple of shark cartilage pills, an alleged cure for cancer. This is alternative
medicine at its strangest and, like its more widely accepted cousins such as
acupuncture, it is on the increase.

<P> The most common reason for turning to alternative remedies is a
recommendation from a colleague. Another is that orthodox doctors are often
overstretched, combined with widespread scepticism that traditional medicine is
the only route to good health.

<P> Alternative medicine covers a wide spectrum of treatment, from the safe and
accepted to more imaginative &#173; and sometimes dangerous &#173; new practices.

<P> Acupuncture and homoeopathy, for instance, have been used for centuries to
successfully provide relief from stress and pain. Acupuncture, performed by
inserting &THORN;ne needles into the body at speci&THORN;c points, can be used to
treat anything from muscle pains to addiction to smoking. Homoeopathy treats like
with like: remedies derived from plants or minerals are taken in minute
quantities, stimulating the body's natural defences by producing effects similar
to those of the disease it is attacking.

<P> Osteopathy treats physical problems by looking at the body structure as a
whole. It is the most accepted of alternative therapies, in part because there is
no scienti&THORN;c disagreement between the osteopaths and doctors. Other
therapies such as re&thorn;exology, aromatherapy and foot massage are used
primarily to combat stress.

<P> In looking at some of the less common therapies, it is wise to be sceptical.
In Russia, for instance, faith healers and bizarre pills are the rage. Boris
Zolotov, a self-proclaimed healer, organises seminars to induce orgasm through
telepathy, a programme that is particularly popular among women. Pharmacies sell
so-called electronic tablets, claimed to have been used by Soviet politburo
members to cure heart ailments. Urine therapy is also used in Russia. One woman
with a skin rash was advised by her doctor to drink her own urine and take
alternative hot and cold showers. The woman caught pneumonia, but the rash
remained.

<P> Stories such as these give considerable ammunition to traditional doctors who
accuse alternative practitioners of being unscienti&THORN;c. Herbal concoctions
like the dietary supplement <I>mahuang</I> have killed patients. So have coffee
enemas, which are claimed to cure cancer by detoxifying the body.

<P> Nevertheless, alternative medicine is now very big business. According to
<I>The New England Journal of Medicine, </I>Americans spent about $14 billion on
complementary care &THORN;ve years ago. It seems safe to assume that &THORN;gure
has risen substantially since.

<P> Something similar has happened in Russia, although for different reasons.
More than 80% of the population has used unorthodox medical treatments, according
to Valery Vorontsov, a social policy adviser to Boris Yeltsin. In the communist
era alternative practitioners risked arrest but the business has &thorn;owered
since the end of Soviet rule. There are now more than 300,000 of them.

<P> The fact that many Russians can no longer rely on orthodox medicine may help
explain this boom. The Russian health system has broken down in many areas and
age expectancy is falling. Folk healers offer affordable cures, which is hardly
surprising when some are made of birch bark and berries.

<P> Nonetheless, growing interest is forcing respectable institutions to take it
seriously. Both Harvard and Columbia universities are starting alternative
medical centres and insurance companies are beginning to cover the cost of
naturopathic medicine. About 15 US &THORN;rms now cover the heart disease
treatment that is offered by Dr Dean Ornishs, a naturopath who advocates a mix of
exercise, vegetarian diets and meditation.

<P> Business people are a particular target: "Most of my business patients suffer
from muscle tension due to inactivity at work," says Clive Standen, head of the
British School of Osteopathy. "They tend to sit at their computers clenching
their buttocks. Few sit in a relaxed way... The effects of osteopathy are very
quick so rushed executives do not need to take much time off work and can keep
going."

<P> It was the speed of treatment that impressed Richard Pearson, managing
director of Epsom Motor Group in the UK. He started seeing an osteopath after
dislocating a joint in his spine when he moved a display at work. "After the
accident I was unable to walk, but my osteopathic treatment was so successful
that I was back in the office within two days," he says.

<P> Now when any of his employees suffers a back injury, the company sends him or
her to London in a chauffeured car and pays for osteopathic treatment. In the
past three years, Pearson has sent six staff to osteopaths and each was back at
work within days of being treated. "If you have a minor back complaint an
orthodox doctor will usually just advise you to rest, which often means taking a
week off work," he says. The company estimates that without the &#163;700 ($950)
osteopathic treatments, employee days lost would have cost it about &#163;30,000.

<P> Honey Melville Brown, a recruitment consultant in London who suffers from a
bulging disk in her spine, is another convert: "If I had not gone to see an
osteopath, I would not have come to work for weeks." In addition, her osteopath
came to the office to give practical advice about seating and computer screen
positioning. "I now have my computer up on a box and I stand at my desk. Without
his help I would have had to give up my career."

<P> Most business people turn to alternative medicine in an attempt to cope with
stress when orthodox measures have failed. Research shows that more than 60% of
visits to doctors in the US are for stress-related illnesses such as
hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias and chronic pain<B>. </B>Given the
unpredictable nature of stress, a holistic medical approach can often be the most
effective. Martine Alderson, an alternative practitioner in Hampton, England,
explains: "Treating patients on all levels &#173; the emotional, the intellectual
and the physical &#173; is a logical way to tackle stress when the symptoms are
sporadic and often differ from day to day. Stress manifests itself in strange
ways."

<P> One of Alderson's patients, a young banker in the City of London, develops an
itchy rash on his face and neck every time he has to address a meeting. His neck
muscles also tighten so his voice rises when speaking to clients.

<P> Another patient, a member of the British House of Lords,<B> </B>suffers from
an acute fear of public speaking. Alderson treats him with a combination of
acupuncture for relaxation and a homoeopathic remedy that he takes half an hour
before he needs to make a speech.

<P> Alternative treatments have other advantages. As they carry a lower risk of
side-effects, they are easier to combine with work and are more appropriate for
self-treatment. This is particularly useful for executives who travel and may not
be within reach of a doctor or those who cannot afford to feel drowsy in
meetings. There is a range of homoeopathic vaccines that avoids the side-effects
associated with more traditional vaccines and malaria tablets. Travellers can buy
&THORN;rst-aid kits that have homoeopathic treatments for anything from insect
bites to cholera and typhoid.

<P> Alderson offers some tips. To induce sleep when jet lagged, you should
massage each toe-nail gently in a circular motion for about 30 seconds. The
toe-nail protects the re&thorn;exology point that corresponds to the brain<B>.
</B>Massaging the &THORN;ngernail has the same effect: to save time you can
attach clothespegs to the tips of your &THORN;ngers. For any digestive disorder,
it helps to massage the &thorn;esh between the thumb and fore&THORN;nger. For
nausea, you should gently rub the stomach between the tip of the sternum and
navel. Bathing feet in either ice-cold or very hot water helps to banish
headaches because the extreme temperature draws congestion away from the head
towards the feet.

<P> Business people who have not yet come into contact with alternative medicine
may do so soon. Alternative medical institutes are beginning to market their
services to the business community partly because executives can afford
treatments. In most countries, the average cost of an hour-long osteopathy or
homoeopathy treatment is $40-$50. Aromatherapy costs about $50 an hour and
re&thorn;exology about $20-$30.

<P> France is exceptional in that alternative therapies there are cheaper than
orthodox treatments. A French government survey found that homoeopathic medicine
costs one-third the price of traditional drugs and the cost of services provided
by a homoeopath in one year is about half of that provided by an orthodox
practitioner<B>.</B>

<P> Peter Rock, marketing manager for the Homoeopathic Society in London, is
trying to promote homoeopathy by giving remedies away free on long-haul aeroplane
&thorn;ights. The society will offer travellers a small packet with an
explanatory card and pills for swollen ankles, nausea and headaches. Of course
the idea may take some getting used to, particularly since it involves passing
white powdery pills through customs.

<P> Practitioners insist that the "alternative" tag is no longer used, having
been replaced by that of "complementary". Nonetheless, the change in terminology
does not re&thorn;ect any alteration in the official status of these therapies.
The UK government, for one, describes its attitude towards homoeopathy as one of
benign neutrality.

<P> In considering new treatments, there are good reasons to proceed with
caution. In Britain, osteopathy is still the only alternative therapy that
guarantees patients the same level of protection as conventional medicine.

<P> So before you decide to wrap yourself up in a blanket soaked in boiled
vinegar it is worth taking certain precautions. "Always check the
quali&THORN;cations of the alternative practitioner, ask if he or she is a member
of a professional body and check if he or she has liability insurance," Rock
says.

<P><I> By Elisabeth Faure </I>

<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-8</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B012-207</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.05/wl.96.05.14.html 194.217.137.48 19970114153939 text/html 9082
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:38:32 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 18:49:46 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 8834
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra18.gif" alt="Department">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>



<H3> BACKSEAT </H3> 

<H4> Airports are less often gateways to the
sky than they are passages to one of the rings of hell, says Charles Darwent
</H4> 

<P> Of the many public anniversary celebrations that took place this year,
one in particular brought a tear to Backseat's manly eye. I speak, of course, of
the 50th birthday of Heathrow Airport. The British queen &#173; who so poignantly
&THORN;rst set foot in her realm somewhere beneath what are now the gentlemen's
lavatories at Terminal Three &#173; cut a ribbon, Concorde &thorn;ew past and
assorted VIPs tittered at photographs of the place as it was in 1946. These
showed passengers sitting on comfy sofas, attended by staff who provided them
free tea and biscuits, carried their luggage and generally treated them as
members of the order <I>Homo sapiens</I>. Oh, the ridiculous quaintness of it
all.

<P> Time has moved on, and nowhere more rapidly so than at the newly privatised
Heathrow. None of that complimentary biscuits nonsense these days. At the world's
busiest airport, the word "free" now appears only in a single context,
pre&THORN;xed by the word "duty".

<P> Indeed, those sweet-faced na&iuml;fs who do not have frequent-&thorn;yer
cards might be forgiven for mistaking Heathrow for a shopping mall that happens
to have handy runways. Travel to LAX or LOS or LEB from LHR and you will
&THORN;nd yourself routed automatically via DSOs (duty-free shopping
opportunities) whether you like it or not. Goods for sale in DSOs seem to be
selected on the criteria that they be functionless, expensive, prone to break in
one's luggage and &#173; a handy adjunct to aviation fuel in the event of a crash
&#173; in&thorn;ammable. Should you make it to LAX or LOS or LEB nonetheless, you
will &THORN;nd precisely the same goods in their DSOs. If you can get in to buy
them, they will be extremely handy given that whatever you were seduced into
buying at LHR will have been leaking from your bags since mid&thorn;ight.

<P> The uniformity of international airports extends beyond the universal
stocking of whiskies with names such as Clan Grunt that are found only in
duty-free shops. All airports everywhere now look exactly alike. It is a tendency
that this column deplores and intends to counter with the new Backseat Award for
Airport Design (or BAAD). Nominations, please, in domestic and international
categories.

<P> *&#009;Our &THORN;rst domestic winner is the national terminal at Madrid's
Barajas airport (whose three-letter code, with that engaging candour of the
Iberian race, is MAD). Madrid's domestic terminal is a variant on what has become
the accepted formula for airport design worldwide: Backseat writes the formula as
"t&lt;(dw)c" in which "t" stands for the time between connecting &thorn;ights,
"d" for the distance between gates, "w" for the weight of luggage and "c" for the
subject's susceptibility to coronary disease.

<P> At the same time, Barajas proves that adherence to convention need not mean
slavishness. Passengers &thorn;ying from, say, New York to Valencia will
&THORN;nd they must carry their bags for a quarter of a mile in one direction,
then climb a two-storey staircase, walk another quarter-mile in the opposite
direction and &#173; a touch of almost foolhardy virtuosity, this &#173; climb a
second staircase. Assuming that variable "c" has not come into play en route,
travellers will have walked half a mile to get to a spot 20 feet above their
original position. The panel's comment? "Literally breathtaking."

<P> *&#009;Competition was rather hotter in the international category, but the
judges were nonetheless unanimous in singling out Terminal One at Paris's Charles
de Gaulle airport. As an exercise in pure abstraction, <I>aerogare un</I> is
without parallel. A perfect circle, it eschews at a sweep all those concessions
to functionality made by other, lesser, non-French airports. Descartes would have
clapped his hands for joy. In the moving words of one BAAD judge, "<I>aerogare
un</I> is a living reminder of exactly why the circle should have been the
inspiration behind Dante's greatest work".

<P> Among the many things you will not &THORN;nd at <I>aerogare un</I> are: any
feature that might inadvertently help to distinguish one part of the terminal
from another; any clue to help you &THORN;nd your way from the terminal to Paris
(or, indeed, anywhere else) nor &#173; perhaps most daring &#173; any sign
hinting at the whereabouts of lavatories. Ever needful of these, arriving
passengers instinctively turn to the right, their eyes lit with mute despair.
Because of a design quirk, however, the lavatories at CDG1 always turn out to be
just to the left of whichever entrance gate a traveller has just passed through.
By the time this idiosyncrasy is discovered, 34 gates later, the lavatories will
either just have been shut for cleaning or have been rendered unnecessary by the
limitations of the human bladder.

<P> This is not the crowning triumph of the geometry of <I>aerogare un</I>,
however. There are many airports that can point, with a certain bashful pride, to
passengers who are merely going round in circles (think of those hours spent
stacking at Chicago O'Hare, for example.) Only Charles de Gaulle can boast of
having passengers going nowhere at all.

<P> At some point in the forgotten past, a group from some hapless sub-Saharan
country arrived with neither return tickets nor valid visas. As one might
imagine, they were greeted with convulsions of Gallic shrugging and gleeful cries
of "<I>non</I>". To be granted visas, the group's members need to show return
tickets. These visas they might acquire in CDG1's arrivals concourse but to get
there they have to pass through immigration. Of course they need visas to pass
through immigration. And so on, in those endless bureaucratic circles that
<I>aerogare un</I>'s geometry so sharply evokes.

<P> Able to go neither forward nor back &#173; being, in international law, not
actually in France, they cannot be deported from it &#173; these nomads have
spent their last years trapped in that extraterritorial limbo known as "airside".
There they eat, sleep and will one day presumably procreate. In time, they will
form a city of their own. And then? Read Nostrodamus and tremble.

<BR>
<BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-9</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-200</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.11.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114173721 text/html 29066
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:36:28 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 12:54:14 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 28830
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: August 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: August 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
November 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<P> 

<H3> HOW SWEET IS NATWEST'S ROSE? </H3>

 <P><H4> NatWest Markets, it is alleged, has put its corporate relationships in jeopardy since it presented its clients
with a fait accompli &#173; it is securitizing part of its commercial loan
portfolio via an SPV called Rose. Our verdict: poor marks for communications, but
an understandable, and legitimate, response to cost pressures.</H4> <i>Euan Hagger and
Matthew Ball report.</i>

<P> Our cover story in July was titled "The end of corporate banking?". In it we
argued that the treasurers who continue to refinance their deals and change bank
syndicates every nine months are doing themselves few favours in the long term.
The need to obtain cost-effective funding and to prevent peers from snatching a
competitive advantage must be balanced by a commitment to the lending group. As
they see loan margins fall further and further treasurers find it hard to resist
the lure of easy money. But companies such as Volvo have proved that
you can refinance in a fair and timely way without inflicting heavy casualties on
your banking relationship list.

<P> Those who have taken a more irresponsible attitude and pushed each new status
quo in pricing into yet another downward spiral, have tended to get away with it.
Until now. Banks, tired of writing a cheque from their shareholders to those of
their corporate clients just to gain privileged access to bid for higher-margin
business, have at last hit back.

<P> NatWest's announcement of its decision to securitize some of its loan
portfolio could have been handled better. But that is where the criticism should
stop.

<P> Eager to maintain favour with clients, banks have accepted the lower margins
in western Europe and the US and have sought relative value in emerging markets.
Now margins there are falling rapidly too.

<P> NatWest's complex solution &#173; and why we believe corporates have little
to complain about &#173; is explained in the following pages. The structure of
the securitization is such that the relationship between lender and borrower is
unchanged. The relationship between treasurer and banker may never be the same
again (witness also KPN's loan auction, which has aroused such bad feeling). But
don't put the blame at NatWest's door for any of this. Banks have been given no
choice. The Rose deal will be the first of many.

<P> On the morning of September 25, corporate clients of NatWest Markets received
a letter announcing the bank's intention to securitize a portion of its
commercial loan portfolio.

<P> Until receipt of this letter, companies had been unaware of any such plans.
"We received the letter and we read about the securitization in the newspapers,"
says Christopher Pearce, group finance director of Rentokil Initial.

<P> If the executives to whom the letter was addressed had turned to the front
page of that morning's Financial Times, they would have read the comments by
Michael Owen, chief executive of NatWest Markets, regarding the $5 billion
securitization. "The conundrum we have solved is to transfer a loan 
without jeopardising a relationship," Owen said.

<P> They could also have turned to the press release that was enclosed with the
letter. In it, Owen states that "by creating more liquid, marketable securities
through the asset-backed securities market, we can remove low-yielding assets
off-balance sheet without jeopardising our client relationships".

<P> To some, Owen's remarks seemed a little suspect. After all, NatWest has
presented to its clients, as a fait accompli, the possibility that their loans
would be among those incorporated into the pool of receivables created by the
securitization structure. It had done this without entering into any prior
discussion with its borrowers.

<P> Press reaction has so far been hostile. Corporate borrowers might be less
inclined to give the bank other business and, it was claimed, would even end up
at the mercy of bondholders. And with such a complicated structure how could
hard-pressed corporate executives find the time to understand how it worked and
how, if at all, their company was affected?

<P> As the announcement fell foul of the critics, the bank and its outside
counsel Clifford Chance prepared a statement reiterating that corporate borrowers
need not be worried by the deal. The law firm then compiled a five-page
question-and-answer list to be made available to companies when they ask for
an explanation.

<P> Why did the bank not assemble these weapons in its armoury before and send
them to clients with the letter announcing the deal? The bank's official response
is: "We did anticipate client questions when the securitization was first
announced and prepared Q&amp;As for use in our on-going discussion with clients.
As the transaction structure has been finalized, following investor presentations
and the imminent publication of the offering circular, we are now able to give
more definitive responses, which were prepared with the assistance of Clifford
Chance."

<P> The bank will not be sending out the question-and-answer list to all clients
but confirms that it will be "available for any client who may ask for it".

<P><H4> Mixed response</H4>

<P> In reality, most of the outrage and negative comments have been based on very
few interviews with NatWest corporate clients. Half the treasurers and finance
directors contacted by Corporate Finance last month were unwilling to speak
about NatWest's announcement at all. The implications of this are unclear,
although corporates are usually willing to complain about service providers as
long as the comments are unattributed.

<P> The responses received from the rest fall into two categories: first, a
relaxed attitude such as that expressed by John Weston-Smith, finance
director of British Land. "The entire British Land bank loan portfolio is on a
standard documentation, and it is a condition of every bank loan that our consent
is required for an assignment, so we are very well tied down," he says.

<P> Adds the group treasurer at a large UK corporate: "We have been given
assurances that the relationship between us and NatWest will remain unchanged and
we are comfortable with that. We have been assured that all the necessary
infrastructure is in place, so that any future negotiations between
ourselves and NatWest will in no way be impeded by the securitization."

<P> A spokesman at Daewoo UK is similarly unruffled. "There is no written notice
to our company, so there is no direct link between our loan and the
securitization," he says. "For that reason, we don't envisage a situation in
which bondholders would be able to make a claim on the loan."

<P> The second group is seeking more information about the structure, or believes
that more should be made available. Says one group treasurer: "I doubt whether
any of NatWest's corporate clients know the details of how this securitization is
going to work; it is difficult to arrive at an informed opinion about something
when one doesn't have the details."

<P> Says Jim Murray, finance director at Land Securities, which has an undrawn
bilateral facility with NatWest: "As we are not one of NatWest's corporate
clients, without having details as to how the securitization is going to work it
is difficult to come to an informed opinion."

<P> Michael Turner-Samuels, group treasurer at Thorn, is in both camps. "We have
new documentation in place following the demerger of Thorn and EMI," he says. "It
stipulates that a bank cannot subparticipate or assign without our prior consent.
Even if the documentation gave NatWest the right to subparticipate I can't
envisage that the bank would do that if we were unhappy about it."

<P> He adds: "There is greater pressure on banks to find ways of transferring
low-earning assets off their balance sheet; at the same time there is greater
awareness on the part of corporates that this is what they are doing and that it
may be contrary to the relationship-building reason for providing the loan in the
first place.

<P> "We would need to know what is in it for us. We would need to be persuaded
that this is not to our disadvantage and convinced that the securitization would
in no way have an adverse impact on us under any circumstances."

<P> At the time of going to press the bank claimed that just 25 clients had
called to discuss the matter. Of these, some have complained and some have said
they are happy with the situation. The vast majority of clients have not,
apparently, called specifically about the issue.

<P> <H4> Low-key communications</H4>

<P> The distribution of information is the one area in which the bank could have
handled things better, though it disagrees with that view. It did not organize a
campaign to call all clients on the day of the announcement, preferring to regard
conversations on the subject as part of its on-going dialogue with corporate
customers. A short letter and a press release on what can easily become a
sensitive issue does seem a little below the standard a core relationship bank
should set itself.

<P> That, however is as far as criticism of the bank should go. Poor
communication at the outset will not be the transaction's undoing, and because of
London Stock Exchange regulations NatWest was prevented from contacting its
clients before the deal was announced.

<P> Account officers at other banks have been happy to say &#173; off the record,
of course &#173; that the deal is bad news for NatWest's relationships. Take this
comment from the head of corporate banking at a Japanese bank in London:
"Corporates feel that they have been left in the dark. Some feel strongly that
their relationship is being sold without proper negotiation, and without their
full consent. From a competitive banking point of view, this is an opportunity
for other banks to steal business from NatWest."

<P> They have also been calling possible new clients to tempt them from NatWest
with the offer of a "proper relationship". And yet the securitization teams from
the same banks have been calling NatWest to find out more about the structure.
They are considering doing the same thing or even putting some of their bank's
loans through NatWest's special-purpose vehicle.

<P> Corporate clients that do not feel comfortable with the structure of the deal
or believe the spirit of the loan agreement has been broken may decide to take
their business elsewhere &#173; that is a risk NatWest is prepared to run &#173;
but they may also find that their new relationship bank has chosen to do the same
thing. A source at one of the rating agencies confirms that "a number of other
global banks are considering it". And one banker believes that certain banks are
already using products that allow them to subparticipate their loans without any
disclosure.

<P> Companies could always start insisting on non-subparticipation clauses in
every loan document signed from now on, but they will probably find a reduced
appetite among lenders for their credit. In any case, NatWest's subparticipation
agreement entirely safeguards borrowers against potential interference by
end-investors. The subparticipations entered into by Rose Funding Ltd &#173;
the special-purpose vehicle &#173; differ from conventional secondary loan market
subparticipations (which have been around since 1983); these conventional
subparticipations are entered into by subparticipants on the disclosure of the
name and other information regarding the borrower and the facility.

<P> "It is the subparticipation nature of the structure that enables NatWest to
remain the lender of record," says Alby Cator, managing director and head of debt
markets at NatWest Markets. "As a result, the relationship between NatWest and
the borrower will be maintained in the normal way as if there had been no
securitization. The names of the corporate borrowers will not be disclosed to any
party in the deal."

<P> The rating agencies and Clifford Chance all support the bank on this point.

<P> Insists Cator: "We will always abide by the terms of the client loan
agreement." So those few companies that have a non-subparticipation clause in
their loan agreement will not have their loan put in the pool.

<P> Other companies will not know whether they are in the pool or not, nor will
their NatWest relationship manager. Such uncertainty will have caused some unease
where companies have not found the time to analyse the structure. At the time of
going to press, the bank claimed that, of clients that had expressed a desire for
their loans not to go into the pool, just two had yet to be persuaded otherwise;
the others that had called to express their reservations had been won round. And
just two companies had called to ask for the Clifford Chance
question-and-answer sheets.

<P> The most valued corporate clients would probably be able to avoid going into
the pool &#173; though their reasons for insisting that they want out will
ultimately be based on emotion rather than fact &#173; and the bank will deal
with such situations on a case-by-case basis. Others who give the bank less of
their treasury business will not be looked on so favourably, but such is the
cheapness of the money they have been enjoying that they can have little cause
for complaint.

<P> NatWest will make money on the securitization but treasurers who claim a cut
of the profits (no doubt in the form of even lower loan margins) are missing the
point. Perhaps the bank should insist on equity kickers on the loans it gives
them just in case the company's manufacturing operations it is funding
outperform. And companies that believe the bank will owe them a favour or that
they will enjoy increased negotiating leverage in future deals may not
necessarily be wrong but clearly have little to complain about at the moment.

<P> <H4> A step forward</H4>

<P> Asked by Corporate Finance for his view on NatWest's move, the head of
lending at one of the largest US banks called it "a great step forward for the
banking industry". NatWest will not be alone in its decision to declare publicly
that it is going to securitize part of its loan portfolio. The number of calls it
has received from fellow lenders has led it to schedule a presentation for
interested parties to be held in January.

<P> Transfer loan instruments and transfer loan certificates were first
introduced in 1983 in an attempt to standardize documentation. The predictable
uproar at the time soon died down and now such provisions are standard practice
in the loan market. Corporates that feel aggrieved by NatWest's decision should
learn to understand and get comfortable with the new era. If they change bank
every time a new securitization or subparticipation package is announced they
will soon find they have nowhere left to go. 

<H3> Clifford Chance answers your questions </H3>

<P> National Westminster Bank
Plc requested that law firm Clifford Chance provide it with answers to a
representative set of questions with respect to the proposed securitization of
part of its corporate loan book. The firm has been instructed to act for the bank
in connection with the structuring and execution of the securitization and its
answers to the questions raised are set out here.

<P><b> How does the securitization work?</b>

<P> The bank will enter into an arrangement with Rose Funding No. 1 Limited
(Rose), a special-purpose vehicle incorporated in the Cayman Islands, whereby
Rose will make limited recourse deposits with NatWest in respect of a portfolio
of loans entered into with the bank's borrowers. The deposits made by Rose will
be repayable in amounts equal to sums received by the bank in respect of the
principal of a loan in the portfolio. Interest on the deposits will be payable in
amounts equal to sums received by NatWest representing interest and certain fees
in respect of such a loan.

<P> The bank does not sell, transfer, assign, novate or otherwise legally dispose
of any loan or lending obligation. It remains the legal owner of all loans and is
the lender of record. All borrowers are entitled and obliged to deal solely with
NatWest with respect to the loans throughout their life. Only the bank may
interface with the borrowers. Nothing in the securitization alters this.

<P> In order to fund the making of the limited recourse deposits, Rose will issue
different classes of floating-rate notes denominated in US dollars or sterling.
These notes will carry different interest margins and will have separate credit
ratings for each class. The notes will be sold to bond investors and are expected
to be listed on the London Stock Exchange. The offering circular for the notes
will stress to bond investors the total absence of any rights on their part
against the borrowers or to contact the borrowers; the total absence of any right
on their part to be told the names of the borrowers; and the total absence on
their part to influence or control or direct the manner in which the bank deals
with its customers.

<P><b> Will any borrower be informed if its loan is included in the securitization
portfolio? Will the rating agencies or the bondholders know or be capable of
finding out? Will information provided to NatWest by a borrower be passed on to
the SPV or the bondholders?</b>

<P> The bank informs us that it is not its intention that any borrower will be
advised whether a loan is included in the securitization portfolio or not. We
have been asked to stress, however, that NatWest considers the securitization
fundamentally as an alternative funding route for part of its corporate loan
portfolio which in no manner changes its legal and commercial relationship with
its clients and its responsibility to continue managing and maintaining loans and
loan commitments.

<P> There will be no disclosure at any time during the life of the securitization
of borrower names to Rose, the bondholders, the trustee, the administrator, the
rating agencies or any other party connected to the securitization other than
NatWest. Similarly, the bank will not provide any of such persons with any
financial or other information supplied to it by any borrower. We have been
instructed by NatWest that the requirements for no disclosure and no provision of
information are absolutely essential to the integrity of the transaction.

<P><b> Will the SPV purchase any loan from NatWest?</b>

<P> There will be no assignment, transfer, novation or other sale of any legal or
beneficial interest in any loan and the legal and beneficial ownership of the
loan will remain with the bank following the securitization. The legal
relationship between NatWest and the borrower will not be affected in any way by
the securitization.

<P> <b>How will the loans be administered? Who will administer the SPV? Will anybody
other than NatWest administer any loan with NatWest?</b>

<P> The loans will continue to be administered by the bank &#173; not in a
capacity as administrator of Rose but as a result of its unaffected legal
relationship with its clients. Consequently, any concern that the loan will be
administered by any party other than the bank in the context of securitization
can be firmly laid to rest. NatWest will continue to have the same legal and
commercial relationship with its clients as before the securitization and it will
be obliged to operate that relationship in accordance with its ordinary business
practices as if the securitization had never occurred. Moreover, the bondholders
or any person acting on their behalf will have no right whatsoever to remove
NatWest as the lending entity to the borrower or to change its relationship with
any borrower in any way.

<P> As a special-purpose vehicle, Rose will need an administrator but the role of
the administrator will, to all intents and purposes, be to collect monies due to
Rose from the bank and perform cash administration services for Rose. The
relationship of the administrator of Rose with respect to the securitization
portfolio will be solely with NatWest and not with any borrower.

<P> The administrator of Rose in connection with the securitization will be a
member of the NatWest group and the only situations in which the NatWest group
company could be removed as administrator by Rose, the bondholders, or anybody
acting on their behalf will relate to material default by the NatWest group
member in performance of its obligations as administrator (as mentioned above,
broadly in obtaining the cashflows due to Rose from NatWest and administering the
same) and the occurrence of insolvency events relating to the bank. The removal
of any NatWest group company as administrator, were this somehow to occur, would
not affect the legal and commercial relationship of the bank with its clients in
any way.

<P><b> Are there any circumstances where the bondholders could have the right to
negotiate directly with a borrower over the terms of its loan agreement?</b>

<P> There are no circumstances whatsoever in which the bondholders or any person
acting on their behalf could have the right to negotiate directly with any
borrower over the terms of a loan agreement. Moreover, as mentioned above, Rose,
the bondholders, the bond trustee, the administrator, the rating agencies and any
other party connected to the securitization other than the bank will have no
knowledge of the name of any corporate borrower and so contact between any such
third parties and the borrower in the context of the securitization will be
impossible.

<P> <b>Borrowers have various other arrangements with NatWest, including netting
arrangements. Does securitization mean that these arrangements are no longer
effective and borrowers may lose certain rights, such as the right of set-off, as
a result?</b>

<P> Any existing legal relationship between the borrower and NatWest will
continue unaltered following the securitization. Consequently, any loans
currently subject to a netting agreement made by a borrower with NatWest and any
right of set-off existing between the borrower and the bank or any other
arrangement between the bank and the borrower will not be affected in any way.

<P><b> Will the bank continue to be able to forgive, compromise or otherwise alter
any terms of the loan agreement? Will this be legally binding on the SPV and the
bondholders?</b>

<P> NatWest as legal and beneficial owner of the loan will retain the right to
agree amendments and waivers in respect to the underlying loan agreement in
accordance with its ordinary business practice as if the securitization had not
occurred. The bank is also entitled to agree releases and variations of the
borrower's obligations and to participate in debt rescheduling with respect to a
borrower in difficulties (as mentioned below), again notwithstanding the
existence of the securitization. Rose and the bondholders are legally bound by
the results of the decisions and actions of the bank in this respect. NatWest
informs us that requests from borrowers to extend any repayment dates, amend the
interest rate or change the base currency (that is, the denomination of the
facility, not the operation of any multi-currency option) for a particular
facility during its term will continue to be dealt with on the basis of a
commercial decision by the bank and then documented so that the knowledge,
agreement or consent of Rose, the bondholders or any other third party is not
required.

<P> <b>Will NatWest be able to act with the same freedom in dealing with a troubled
borrower if they have the interests of a bond trustee in the background?</b>

<P> In the unfortunate situation where a borrower notifies the bank that it is
unable to pay or otherwise discharge its obligations in connection with a loan as
they fall due, the bank will decide in accordance with its ordinary business
practices whether or not to agree to any readjustment, restructuring, refinancing
or rescheduling (howsoever described) of the relevant indebtedness. There is no
requirement in this situation to consult with Rose, the bondholders or any other
person connected with the securitization. Moreover, Rose has agreed that its
interests in this regard will be the same as those of the bank if NatWest acts or
refrains from acting in accordance with its ordinary business practices as if the
securitization had not occurred.

<P> NatWest has confirmed to us that it will act in accordance with its ordinary
business practices as if it had not entered into the securitization and, in
acting in such manner, there is no restriction on its agreeing to, or
participating in, any debt rescheduling or similar on such terms as the bank
thinks fit. For such purposes NatWest is entitled to agree to any release,
novation or payment of all or part of the affected loan or any variation in the
borrower's obligations in respect thereof and the bank may undertake on its own
behalf any obligations in connection with such debt rescheduling. The
securitization also specifically permits the bank to comply with any request,
guidance or requirement received from the Bank of England in respect to agreeing
to or participating in any debt rescheduling.

<P><b> Does the bank as lender have any trust, agency or fiduciary duty towards the
SPV or the bondholders?</b>

<P> No; the arrangements between NatWest and Rose explicitly removes such a duty.

<P><b> What is your general view of the securitization documentation from a notional
borrower's perspective? Are the provisions consistent with standard
sub-participation contracts?</b>

<P> Generally, we do not see anything in the contracts that we have been
requested to draft which ought to give rise to particular concerns on the part of
borrowers that their relationship with the bank will be dealt with in any way
other than by NatWest (only) and in accordance with the bank's ordinary business
practices. The provisions dealing with NatWest's rights of continuing control
over loan relationships are consistent with (but from a borrower perspective,
materially better than) standard sub-participation contracts used in the
financial markets over the past 13 years.

<P> <i>This list of questions and answers is provided to NatWest and is intended to
provide only general information for a client of National Westminster Bank Plc or
its affiliates. It does not purport to be comprehensive or to render legal advice
&#173; Clifford Chance</i>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.11.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-10</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-70</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.11.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120408 text/html 6246
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:03:07 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 12:54:29 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6000
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: November 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: November 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: November 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.11.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<P>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.11.1.html"><b> Bank relationships - NatWest: not guilty </b></a><br><font size=3>

<P> The bank has come in for some criticism, much of it unjustified, for its decision to
securitize part of its corporate loan portfolio. Treasurers have far less to
worry about than they might think &#173; here's why.

<BR><i> Euan Hagger &amp; Matthew
Ball</i><BR><br>

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers</b>

<BR><b> News and views </b> 

<BR> * An end to independent M&amp;A advice?

<BR> * Factoring on the rise in Asia.

<BR> * Treasurers and CFOs on the move.

<BR> * Arthur Andersen pans corporate reports.<BR>

<BR>

<b> Capital raiser </b> 

<BR> <b>TAG Heuer's IPO</b>

<BR> It started with a leveraged recapitalization and ended with a blow-out
international equity offering &#173; the inside story at the Swiss watchmaker.
<BR> <i>Jeremy Adams</i>
<P>

<b>  Forecasting </b> 
<BR> <b>Yen must wait </b>

 <BR>
The consensus is that the Japanese currency is set to stay weak for the rest of
the year.

<BR> <i>Jeremy Adams</i>

<P>

<b>  M&amp;A monitor </b>
 <BR> <b>Deals &amp; developments </b> 

<BR> Diary of the month's most significant buys and bids.
<BR><i> Anne Marie Moss</i>
<P>

<b> Viewpoint </b> 
<BR><b> Curse on the cash pile</b> 

<BR> Tax changes will affect the way UK share buybacks are done.
<BR><i>Robin Aitchison &amp; John Emerson</i>

<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<P>

<b> Canada </b> 
<BR><b> Conference review </b> 

<BR> The 14th annual conference
of the Treasury Management Association of Canada had it all &#173; the Internet,
intranets and masseuses.
<BR><i> Colleen Sidford</i>
<P>

<b> Cash management </b> 
<BR><b> Swift's grand plan</b> 

<BR> Where is the bank's international network going and how will it affect
corporates? All was revealed at Sibos, the annual meeting of Swift members.
 <BR><i>Jack Large</i>
<P>

<b> Syndicated loans </b> 
<BR><b> How not torefinance </b>

 <BR> Volvo got it right, but some companies in emerging markets
didn't. 
<BR><i>Euan Hagger</i>
<P>

<b>  Project finance </b> 
<BR><b> Use the bond market</b> 

<BR> How to fund a 24-year project with an unenhanced debt issue.
<BR><i> Sue Dale</i>
of BZW
<P>

<b>  Brazil </b> 
<BR><b> Credit management </b> 

<BR>Brazilian retailers have moved from being cash managers to credit managers. The
best will survive; the others will be taken over. 
<BR><i>Matthew Ball</i>
<P>

<b>  Risk management </b> 
<BR><b> How to measure it</b> 

<BR> The strengths and weaknesses of the latest techniques in risk
management.
<BR><i> Gordon Yeager</i>
<P>

<b>  Brand valuation </b> 
<BR><b> Look after your assets </b> 

<BR> Experts' views on better brand management.

<BR><i> Raymond Perrier, Weston Anson &amp; David Defty</i>

<BR><BR>

<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-11</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-280</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.08.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114173829 text/html 34107
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:37:34 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 23 Sep 1996 17:44:59 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 33871
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: August 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: August 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
August 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<P> 

<H3> A BRAND-NEW START FOR GUCCI </H3> <P> <H4>Almost destroyed by family
infighting, the internationally known luxury goods company is back in profit
since Investcorp, a Bahrain bank that specializes in turn-round challenges, took
control. But while the extravagant, maverick Maurizio Gucci was chief executive
success had to wait.</H4> <I>Charles Olivier reports.</I>

<P> If the state of a company's headquarters is any indication of its
balance-sheet health, Gucci must be in trouble. Located in an industrial suburb
of Florence, the principal offices of Italy's most famous luxury goods
manufacturer are drab and uninviting. Visitors to reception are greeted not by a
Donatello sculpture or a Renaissance Madonna, but by three plastic yucca
plants and a pair of chain-smoking receptionists.

<P> Yet, despite the absence of glamorous excess so often associated with the
fashion industry, Gucci is in the best shape it has been in for the past 40
years. Its name is back at the forefront of international fashion after the
spectacular success of its spring 1996 collection. Its shops are full, and sales
have nearly doubled from $263.6 million in 1994 to $500.1 million in 1995.
Operating profits during this period have almost quadrupled from $31.5
million to $120.1 million.

<P> It is all a far cry from the chaos of 1987, when political in-fighting
between the grandchildren of the founder Guccio Gucci threatened to tear the
company apart. Between 1982 and 1987 no fewer than 15 lawsuits were filed in the
US alone by members of the Gucci family against one another. In one incident,
Paolo Gucci successfully sued his cousin Maurizio for striking him on the head
with a tape-recorder during a board meeting.

<P> By August 1987, animosity between Gucci's directors had reached such
intensity that the Italian government was forced to appoint a custodian
chairperson, a business professor called Maria Martellini, to oversee the running
of the company. "It was like World War I," remembers Domenico de Sole, then head
of Gucci's operations in America, and now chief executive. "You had people
screaming from one office to another. It was crazy."

<P> Relations between members of the Gucci family had never been good thanks to
the atmosphere of competitive rivalry fostered by Guccio Gucci, the Florentine
craftsman who established the Gucci saddlery business in 1908. Guccio was
convinced that the way to drive his sons and the company forward was to encourage
them to compete with each other.

<P> The strategy paid off handsomely during the company's early decades. Keen to
establish himself as an independent force, Aldo Gucci set off in the 1950s for
the US, where he quickly built a strong retail base for Gucci products with shops
in New York, Chicago and even Beverly Hills. Back in Florence, his brother
Rodolfo was busy cultivating Gucci's  image as the tailor of Europe's
aristocracy.

<P> But things went wrong in the 1970s and 1980s when the company broadened its
product range to include cheaper items such as canvas bags. Soon the Gucci name
was no longer synonymous with luxurious shoes but with much-copied handbags
available in department stores the world over. The company was making money, but
the mystique of its brand was gone.

<P> The retirement of the second generation of Guccis also left its own
problematic legacy. The firm had always been run as a loose federation of family
members, each of whom pursued his or her own projects, but without Rodolfo Gucci
lacked a central voice of authority to guide its operations, and it was left to
his son Maurizio (to whom Rodolfo had left his entire 50% stake) to take over the
reins of management.

<P> Maurizio proved incapable of keeping the company together, and it soon
degenerated into an emotional battlefield of competing egos and pet projects. As
fighting between the Gucci relations grew, the company's product line became
increasingly fragmented. "There was no focus," remembers de Sole. "During the
1980s, the company never grew as a consistent brand because each member of the
family controlled one bit of the business. The collection made no sense. We would
have family members coming over to America, saying: 'I have designed this new
line of jewellery', which had nothing to do with Gucci at all."

<P> Disagreements between board members over the direction of the company reached
fever pitch in 1986, when Maurizio decided to fire his 78-year-old uncle, Aldo
Gucci, from the presidency of the company. The sacking (which is said to have
involved Aldo being forcibly removed from his office by two policemen) was
bitterly resented by many members of the family who saw it as unforgiveable
arrogance on the part of Maurizio.

<P> Tension escalated further the following year when Giorgio, Roberto and Aldo
decided to take their revenge on Maurizio by accusing him of forging his father's
signature on a share transfer document to avoid death duties, and of unlawfully
taking control of the Gucci presidency. Worried that the litigation was de-
stabilizing the company, the government brought in a custodian committee headed
by Martellini to control Maurizio's 50% stake while the trial was going on.

<P> In London, meanwhile, the internal squabbling at Gucci began to attract the
attention of investment banks and venture capitalists, who saw the instability
 as a potential opportunity to stage a takeover. At Morgan Stanley, the
corporate finance team led by John Studzinski thought Gucci might be of
particular interest to a Bahrain investment bank called Investcorp, which
specialized in buying well-established brand names that needed turning around.
Studzinski called Investcorp to say that several members of the Gucci family
might be interested in selling. He asked whether the bank was interested. It was.

<P> Investcorp, at this point, was virtually unheard of outside venture capital
circles. Set up in 1982 as a conduit for Arab investment in Europe and North
America, it had developed a reputation as a skilful buyer with a near-bottomless
pool of capital (which it was able to raise in the Gulf through syndication of
its investments). Says de Sole: "The first time I heard of Investcorp was when it
bought Tiffany's [the US jeweller]."

<P> Investcorp was concerned that an open attempt to buy stock from members of
the Gucci family might be construed by other family members as a hostile bid for
the company (something Investcorp executives disliked). The decision was made to
proceed, but cautiously.

<P> Acting on behalf of an "anonymous buyer", Morgan Stanley began to build a
small holding in Gucci, buying a 3.3% stake from Paulo Gucci in November 1987.
Six months later, it managed to increase the holding to 47.8% through the
purchase of a further 44.5% from Roberto and Giorgio Gucci.

<P> This left Investcorp in a tricky position: it had spent an estimated $140
<BR> million on a 47.8% stake in a large luxury goods company but was still not
close to gaining management control. Paul Dimitriuk, the Investcorp executive who
had masterminded the purchase of the stakes, had managed to secure four seats on
the board but was unable to persuade Martellini to relinquish the crucial fifth
seat.

<P> Throughout the early part of 1988, negotiations between Investcorp and
 the custodian committee controlling Maurizio's 50% stake continued as the
two parties struggled to come to an agreement, and it was not until March 1989
that Dimitriuk finally bought a further 2.2% from Roberto that Investcorp was
able to secure its position as a majority owner.

<P> Reaction to Investcorp's involvement among existing Gucci employees was
mixed. Many had been influenced by the negative press comment about the sale,
which caricatured Investcorp as an Arab interloper. Some were worried that
Investcorp's arrival would lead to widespread job losses, and the disappearance
of the free-wheeling Gucci culture.

<P> Among the management, however (or at least those with no personal axe to
grind), Investcorp's decision was little short of a miracle. "They came in at a
very critical time," says de Sole. "Everything was very unstable, so for the
management it was a great relief."

<P> Maurizio was certainly pleased: he had rid himself of his troublesome
relatives and could now get on with running the company his way. For its part,
Investcorp thought Maurizio was a man it could deal with, and the two parties
quickly set about developing a strategy that would return Gucci to the glory days
of the 1950s.

<H4> Rationalization </H4>

<P> First up was internal cost reduction. Production costs had risen steeply
during the 1980s as a side-effect of the diversification into new products. So,
in 1990, the company got its first in-house audit. The local workforce was cut
from 900 to 750.

<P> Next came reform of the distribution system, which had grown bewilderingly
diversified during the expansion of the previous decade with thousands of sales
outlets and independent franchise-holders. Sales to department stores and
other stores Gucci did not own were cut back. More than 650 points of sale were
eliminated, and 26 stores closed in a <BR> determined attempt to put sales into a
manageable order again. Franchises were repurchased and Asian businesses bought
back.

<P> But the key move was the repositioning of the Gucci brand. Deciding that the
Gucci name has become cheapened by the rapid expansion of its product range,
Maurizio and his new creative director Dawn Mello stopped production of many of
the cheaper items. Others unable to meet the new tighter
return-on-capital-employed targets were also discontinued. The product range was
reduced from 22,000 to 5,000 items.

<P> Product quality was also improved by cutting the number of outside workshops
preparing raw materials and parts for Gucci. Explains de Sole: "We made a
conscious effort to aim for absolute quality by taking control of production."

<P> But it soon became apparent that, though the rationale behind the changes was
correct, their implementation was not. At a time when the company should have
been entering into a period of carefully controlled change, management of the
company became increasingly haphazard. Products were withdrawn overnight,
suppliers and distributors were sacked and hired precipitately. New ideas such as
a ready-to-wear collection were introduced without an examination of the set-up
costs of such an investment.

<P> The financial results of the company showed the failure. In 1991, Gucci lost
$49 million; the following year it lost $46.4 million. "We really needed some
excellent management skills. Unfortunately we didn't have them," says de Sole.

<P> Paul Soldatos, head of European investment at Investcorp, admits that they
tried to do too much at once. "It was an awful lot of change," he says.

<P> The main problem, however, was not the pace of change but Maurizio's quixotic
management style. An imaginative and creative man who had grown up with wealth
but had little grasp of finance, Maurizio had grandiose plans of transforming
Gucci into a global brand with interests not just in fashion but in other
consumer goods and even airlines. He began to spend wildly, flying from the
company's offices in Florence to the opulent new offices he had bought in Milan
even though the trip was only two hours by car. He insisted that new product
lines such as ready-to-wear menswear were launched without planning the start-up
costs.

<P> Investcorp struggled in vain to control Maurizio's spending, and the
relationship between the two parties deteriorated. In 1992, the investment bank
discovered that Maurizio had broken a major shareholder agreement by pledging
some of his Gucci shares to a Swiss bank as collateral for a sizeable loan.
Threatening legal action, Investcorp demanded that he pay the money back.

<P> In an episode still only partially understood even by the Milan police,
Maurizio quickly paid back the Sfr30 million loan with money he claims he found
under the floorboards of his house in Saint-Moritz in Switzerland.

<P> The police are believed to suspect that the money came not from the villa,
but from a money-lending acquaintance of his ex-wife Patrizia Gucci. Local
commentators have since speculated that this lender may have played a part in the
subsequent murder of Maurizio in Milan in early 1995 (a crime that remains
unsolved).

<P> Under considerable emotional and financial pressure, Maurizio decided to
sell his stake to Investcorp in September 1993. Investcorp remains silent over
the motive for the sale or the amount paid, but analysts close to the company
speculate that it could have been about $150 million.

<H4> Cash injected, debt rescheduled </H4>

<P> Six years after it had first bought a stake in Gucci, Investcorp was now in
control. But the problems it faced were considerable: rumours circulated that the
company might not be able to pay its employees; its fashion collections were
doing well but it lacked the finances to market them properly.

<P> Investcorp moved quickly to solve the cashflow problems by injecting $50
million of fresh capital. The company's punitive debt burden was reduced by
rescheduling much of the most expensive US debt using Investcorp's superior
credit rating and access to capital markets. The office in Milan and the villa
outside Florence were sold. In place of the departed Maurizio, it brought in the
head of Gucci America, de Sole, as chief executive.

<P> With a more disciplined management team in place, and the capital to finance
the company's revival as a fashion house, Gucci was stronger than it had been for
a long time. Recalls Soldatos: "We were now in a much better position to have the
freedom of action to [make the necessary changes]." Advertising budgets were
increased to boost public awareness of the brand. The window displays in the
company's shops were updated.

<P> Efforts were made to keep making Gucci's products as fresh and innovative as
possible. "We wanted to highlight the fashion side of the business," explains
Soldatos. "We wanted to get the customers excited." Newer, more youthful designs
were added to the classic bags and scarves that had always sold well. As part of
this drive, de Sole promoted a Texan called Tom Ford to replace Dawn Mello as
creative director.

<P> Together with Ford, de Sole focused on trying to make the company's image
more consistent. "To be successful with a brand it is essential to present your
merchandise in a very consistent way. That is what Tom Ford did," says de Sole.
This focus on consistency encompassed nearly every area of the business from
making sure the window displays in the shops put forward the same image, to
ensuring that the style of each product captured the "image of Gucci".

<P> With sales beginning to pick up as a result of these  changes, and costs
now firmly under control, Gucci's fortunes began to improve and the group became
one of the most talked-about fashion houses in Europe.

<H4> Flotation in prospect</H4>

<P> As the recovery progressed, the financial results began to improve on the
back of increased spending by Japanese and US customers. By November 1994 they
had firmed up sufficiently for Investcorp to think about a flotation. US stock
prices were hitting new highs, and the increased spending of Gucci's rich
customers had boosted demand for luxury goods. "The performance was substantially
on the upturn," remembers Soldatos. "We felt the the equity markets were
attractive and we had a pretty clear view of where the performance was likely to
be over the next year or so."

<P> Keen to get the flotation process under way, Soldatos met de Sole to discuss
the possibilities. To Soldatos' delight, de Sole was keen on the idea.

<P> As the discussions developed, Investcorp brought in CS First Boston and
Morgan Stanley to advise on a possible flotation. It was agreed that Gucci was in
a strong enough position to launch an IPO: the company had received a lot of
press coverage, thanks to Ford's collections, sales had increased rapidly, and
the appetite for luxury goods companies was strong. Soldatos decided that (as
with many of Investcorp's other deals), it would be safer for Investcorp to try
to float Gucci over a two-tranche issue rather than try to offload the stock all
at once. Having agreed this strategy, two questions remained: when to launch the
deal and at what price.

<P> The key was future performance. Having posted heavy losses in 1991 and 1992,
it was clear that Gucci was not going to be able to use historic data to persuade
investors to participate. It was essential to be able to demonstrate future sales
growth. Knowing that the six-month results for 1995 would be strong, the
Investcorp team decided to launch the deal in the autumn of 1995.

<P> Says Soldatos: "We knew that going into the sale with a very strong six-month
performance, we would be able to present forward earnings estimates for 1997 and
1998 that investors would believe were sustainable."

<P> Pricing the deal was never going to be easy. As a pure luxury goods company
Gucci had few counterparts against which to measure investor demand. Alfred
Dunhill was trading at a price/earnings ratio of about 18 at the time, but it had
a much more diversified product line than Gucci, whereas Hermes' stock, which was
trading on a 22 to 24 multiple, was illiquid. Moreover, there was some concern
that if the first issue was priced too aggressively Investcorp might never be
able to float the rest of the company.

<P> Having elected to go for a conservative price-range of $19 to $22 a share
(equivalent to a P/E ratio of 19 to 20), Soldatos, de Sole and the team set out
to market the Gucci story to US investors. Never having been involved in an IPO
before, de Sole was nervous: "It was a bit of a new experience for me," he says.
"But I was confident we had a good story."

<P> He need not have worried. When the shares were launched on Tuesday October 23
at $22 each, the issue was heavily oversubscribed. Demand was so strong that
Investcorp raised the amount of shares on offer from 16 million to 24.5 million
(equivalent to 49% of the company). By the end of the week's trading, the shares
had risen by more than 20% to $27.12.

<P> Having received calls from several investors looking to buy more shares,
Soldatos quickly decided to float the remaining 51% of Gucci while the Gucci name
was still hot.

<P> As the paperwork for the second issue was being prepared, the value of the
stock was still rising and, by the time the second issue was priced on March 28
this year, the Gucci stock had risen to $49.5. Still wary of pricing too
aggressively, Investcorp set the price at $48. Once again the issue was a
sell-out.

<H4> The payoff </H4>

<P> Looking back, the bankers involved admit that the shares could have been
priced more aggressively. "With hindsight you could say the pricing was too low,"
says Stephen Hester, managing director of corporate finance at CS First
Boston in London. "But you have to remember we were selling future possibilities,
not past facts."

<P> Investcorp and its clients will not be complaining. Having bought Gucci for
about $300 million and injected a further $50 million of additional capital,
Investcorp netted $1.76 billion from the two sales. Subtract an estimated $50
million in advisory and underwriting fees, and another $50 million in debt
repayment after the flotation, and this makes $1.66 billion, a return of more
than 350% on the original investment.

<P> "This is probably the most successful transaction Investcorp has had,"
enthuses Nemir Kirdar, the bank's Iraqi-born founder. 

<P>

<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=4><B>Investcorp's
current investment portfolio</B></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Date</TD> <TD>Company</TD>
<TD>Business sector</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Total deal value</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Dec 1985</TD> <TD>Dellwood Foods</TD> <TD>US dairy products</TD> <TD
ALIGN="RIGHT">$51 million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD
ALIGN="RIGHT">(partly sold down)</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Nov 1987</TD>
<TD>Chaumet</TD> <TD>French jeweller</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Apr 1988</TD> <TD>Burnham Services</TD> <TD>US transport services</TD>
<TD ALIGN="RIGHT">$160 million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Sep 1989</TD> <TD>Sports
&amp; Recreation</TD> <TD>US sporting goods</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">$40
million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Nov 1989</TD> <TD>Carvel Group</TD> <TD>US ice
cream maker</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">$80 million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Dec
1989</TD> <TD>ComputaCenter</TD> <TD>UK computer systems</TD> <TD
ALIGN="RIGHT">$35 million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Dec 1989</TD> <TD>Color Tile</TD>
<TD>US floor products</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">$110 million</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>1990</TD> <TD>Saks Fifth Avenue</TD> <TD>US department store</TD> <TD
ALIGN="RIGHT">$1.5 billion</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>1992</TD> <TD>Mondi</TD>
<TD>German fashion retailer</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Jul
1993</TD> <TD>Circle K</TD> <TD>US supermarket chain</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">$400
million</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Nov 1993</TD> <TD>Camelot</TD> <TD>US music
retailer</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Sep 1994</TD>
<TD>Ebel</TD> <TD>Swiss watchmaker</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Sep 1994</TD> <TD>Star Market</TD> <TD>US supermarket chain</TD> <TD
ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Dec 1994</TD> <TD>Prime Equipment</TD>
<TD>US equipment leasing</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">N/A</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD
COLSPAN=4>Source: Investcorp/Corporate Finance</TD> </TR><P> </TABLE> <H2>
Investcorp: opportunist rather than specialist </H2> <P> When US investment
bankers first heard in 1982 that Nemir Kirdar, one-time head of Chase Manhattan's
operations in the Gulf, was setting up an investment bank with four of his former
colleagues, the response was one of mocking disbelief. "What do they know about
investment banking?" sniped one. "They are all commercial bankers."

<P> Fourteen years and 39 deals worth an estimated $7.5 billion later, the
critics have had to eat their words. Investcorp is one of the most successful
financial investors in the world, with net assets of $1.7 billion. In 1995 it
made a net income of $70.3 million, with average return on equity a respectable
16.2%. The bank now has more than 100 professionals working in Bahrain, New York
and London.

<P> The returns generated on some of its deals have been little short of
spectacular. Take Tiffany &amp; Co. In 1984 Investcorp bought the New York
jeweller from Avon Products for $135 million. Five years later it sold about 50%
of the company via a flotation for $103.5 million, disposing of the rest of the
stake over the following years for about $170 million (a conservative estimate),
giving the bank and its clients a rate of return on their investment of at least
100%. Its most recent sale, that of Gucci, has been similarly lucrative, netting
a return of 350%. The average annual return on investments that have been sold
has exceeded 30%.

<P> There have, however, been disappointments. In July 1994, Investcorp had to
sell the New York Department chain store group it had bought in Puerto Rico at a
loss after failing to improve its performance. Its $1.5 billion acquisition of
Saks Fifth Avenue department store in New York from BAT in April 1990 has proved
problematic. Following two years of poor trading at the store, Investcorp was
forced to pump an additional $300 million of equity in February 1992 to pay down
expensive bank debt. Saks is now seeking a further $500 million capital increase
via an equity issue, although it is not known whether Investcorp will be selling
its stake as part of the sale.

<P> Nevertheless, given the hit-and-miss nature of investing in troubled
companies, Investcorp seems to have enjoyed a remarkably placid ride, and the
firm commands widespread respect. "They are a very professional outfit who have
done some good deals," says one competitor.

<P> One of the reasons for Investcorp's success has been the strength and
patience of its shareholders &#173; primarily the 300 Arab businessmen who
originally subscribed for the shares when it was listed on the Bahrain stock
exchange in 1982, and the management team itself, which has a 37.5% stake.

<P> Unlike other venture capital firms, which can come under pressure to dispose
of investments even in unfavourable circumstances just to maintain the annual
dividend, Investcorp is allowed to take a longer-term approach to selling its
holdings. The annual dividend has stayed at 15% ever since the bank was set up,
regardless of performance, and shareholders agree to lock up their equity stakes
until the company has been turned round and is ready to float.

<P> "We are prepared to put money in without looking for immediate returns," says
Paul Soldatos, head of European investment. "So even though we aim to exit our
investments within a three to five-year period, we are prepared to wait for seven
years or more until the company is doing well." As in the case of Gucci, which
took nearly eight years to get right, it is an approach that can yield lucrative
rewards.

<P> This patient approach is mirrored in the bank's attitude to acquisitions. If
the company is a good investment, the bank will spend months or even years trying
to hammer out the right purchase price. For example, it spent 19 months
negotiating with Swiss banks over the purchase of Swiss watchmaker Ebel. Nor is
it afraid to avoid making acquisitions if asset prices are too high. The company
has made only one acquisition since January 1995: Simmons, the US bed
manufacturer. "It is just that the climate is for selling rather than buying
companies," explains Larry Kessler, the bank's general counsel.

<P> Its financial strength has also given it a significant advantage when it
comes to raising capital to finance a company's expansion programme or refinance
an investment's existing debt. By virtue of its relationships with the commercial
banking world, Investcorp can often raise extremely low-cost funds. The
acquisition of Ebel, for example, though a European company, was partly financed
by an innovative B-note debt issue. "We have excellent access to the US capital
markets," says Soldatos.

<P> Investcorp's strategy is simple: buy medium-term recovery stocks in the US or
Europe that have fallen on troubled times or lack the financial resources to
expand properly, use the bank's management expertise and financial clout to turn
them around and/or build them up, and then float them three to five years later
at a healthy profit.

<P> To avoid conflict with joint owners, Investcorp likes to be sole sponsor of
all the deals it works on. Each acquisition is funded by a mixture of cash and
bank debt underwritten by Investcorp, which then syndicates between 85% and 90%
of the debt and equity out to its clients in the Gulf (mostly existing
shareholders).

<P> Although many of its best-known deals have been in the luxury goods sector:
Gucci, Tiffany &amp; Co, Ebel and Chaumet, the Bond Street jewellers. Investcorp
has made investments in a broad range of sectors, including an aluminium die-cast
manufacturer (Thecla) and a systems integrator (Computacenter). Of the 39 deals
done in Europe and North America, 12 have been industrial, 11 in retailing, four
in food and beverage and only six in the consumer goods sector.

<P> It prefers industries that are reasonably easy to understand and do not
require specialist technical knowledge; companies in the construction, defence,
financial services, oil and gas, and energy industries are off-limits.
Transaction size should be between $100 million and $500 million, although this
is not a binding rule. Says Soldatos: "In certain sectors such as healthcare and
telecoms, the industry operates on such a global scale that a sole sponsor
looking for a control position is not going to get very far, given the dollars
required."

<P> Investcorp has focused on making acquisitions in mature economies in Europe
and North America. It has invested in France, the UK, Germany, Italy and
Switzerland, and has come close to making purchases in Scandinavia and the
Benelux countries.

<P> This might seem a large beat for a 12-strong European deal-making team to
cover, but Investcorp does little of the investment-hunting itself. Most of the
deals are brought to the firm by investment banks or managers looking to do MBOs.
To maximize its ability to do deals without increasing staff costs to
unsustainable levels, the firm uses an array of lawyers and accountants to advise
it on individual deals.

<P> The bank does not have industry specialists, preferring to put teams of three
or four professionals together to work on specific transactions."We are
opportunistic buyers," explains Soldatos. "We do not consider ourselves experts
in any particular sector, nor do we have one person exclusively focused on a
particular country. We do not have a Mr France or a Mr Germany. We have a small
group of people that is focused on Europe seeking to do an average of two deals a
year as a sole sponsor. As a result, we do not have a large portfolio of minority
investments."

<P> In principle, Investcorp does not like to take too close an interest in the
day-to-day running of the companies it invests in. Existing managers are often
encouraged to stay on with the firm, sometimes taking an equity stake. However,
following the problems the firm encountered with Maurizio Gucci, Investcorp has
changed its approach slightly &#173; it now sets up post-acquisition committees
to monitor investments on a continuous basis, although the strategy is still to
remain as non-interfering as possible.

<P> "The post-acquisition group is not there to replace the management but to
serve as the shareholder representative in monitoring the performance of the
company relative to the business plan developed by management leading to the
future positioning of the company," insists Soldatos.

<P> Domenico de Sole, chief executive at Gucci, sings Investcorp's praises.
"Often buyers come in thinking they are white knights that know it all. [But]
Investcorp doesn't interfere in the operations of the company. They are a very
responsible, supportive shareholder but they don't get involved in designing
handbags."

<P> With high asset prices in Europe and the US, there have been suggestions
that Investcorp might seek to widen its geographical range by looking for
investment opportunities in Asia and Latin America. But Soldatos remains sanguine
over the pace of future change. "Every year we engage in a strategic review of
our businesses, including what parts of the world we should be looking at. But at
the moment there are no concrete plans to expand into Latin America or Asia from
either the fundraising or dealmaking point of view." Eastern Europe is also ruled
out.

<P> Soldatos admits that the competition for deals in Europe and North America is
fierce and increasing: "There is a lot of liquidity in the marketplace and a lot
of people chasing each deal." But he insists that Investcorp will not change its
strategy. "We are very cautious, but we will continue to be extremely active in
Europe. Our objectives as they relate to being consistently in the market haven't
changed. To buy two or three businesses, you have to look at several hundred." CO

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.08.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-12</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-168</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.08.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120535 text/html 5785
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:04:39 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 25 Sep 1996 14:05:51 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5541
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: August 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: August 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: August 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.08.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<P>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.08.1.html"><b>Gucci's brand-new start</b></a><br><font size=3>

By the mid-1980s Italian luxury goods maker Gucci was stricken with family in-fighting and poor brand management. Enter Investcorp. We tell the inside the story of how the Bahrain buy-out boutique patiently built its stake, turned the company round and floated it to make an impressive profit. <BR>
<i>Charles Olivier</i><BR><br>

</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers</b><BR>

* Short-term investment, no credit risk.<BR>


* German convertible market takes off.<BR>


* How to get paid in eastern Europe.<BR>


* Exotic education from Citi.<BR>


* Swiss buy-outs on the increase.<BR>

<BR><br>


<b>Forecasting </b><br>


Most forecasters believe that the Deutschmark is set to appreciate against the dollar and sterling, but the team at Barclays thinks otherwise. It was right last time, so who should you believe? Plus: Our interest rate forecasting section.<BR>
<I>Jeremy Adams</I>

<BR><BR>
<B>M&amp;A monitor</B><br>

A round-up of the month's most significant deals and developments. <BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins</I>

<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>



<B>Risk management</B><br>

Should foreign exchange risk be hedged with derivatives? In our June issue experts from McKinsey argued that it should not. Here is the contrary view.<BR>
<I>Zar Amrolia</I>
<BR><BR>

<B>Capital raiser</B><br>

Is the UK government crowding out corporate borrowers in the capital markets?<BR>
<I>Shira Cornwall of BZW</I>
<BR><BR>

<B>M&amp;A</B><br>
Why hire JP Morgan?

Nobody expected corporate acquirers to choose a commercial bank with no track record in big-ticket M&amp;A advisory work. Then Ciba-Geigy announced it was merging with Sandoz. JP Morgan had finally arrived. <BR>
<I>Charles Olivier</I>
<BR><BR>



<B>Derivatives disclosure</B><br>

Regulators are issuing ever more guidelines for corporates on the disclosure of financial instruments in their annual reports. But our new survey reveals that many companies are still way behind what is expected.<BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins</I>
<BR><BR>



<B>Balance sheet</B><br>

Companies are increasingly turning to international accounting standards in their bid to raise capital in foreign markets. US GAAP still scares most Swiss and German corporates .<BR>
<i>David Waller</i> <BR><BR>

<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-13</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-380</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.04.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174009 text/html 65237
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:38:57 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:13:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 65002
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2>FORTY WAYS TO SAVE A MILLION DOLLARS </H2>
<I>Jeremy Adams and Gwenan Roberts identify them, one by one. <BR>
<BR>
</I><B>Times are tough in treasury and finance. Every year the company board
comes back with demands for even greater cost-savings. The traditional method,
sacking people - or downsizing, as some consultants prefer to call it -
can no longer be applied; staff numbers have already been pared to the bone.
To stay competitive and placate the board, treasurers and finance directors
must look elsewhere for those elusive savings. <BR>
<BR>
Corporate Finance interviewed more than 100 treasurers, finance directors,
bankers and consultants to find out how corporates have been saving money.
The result is our unique list of 40 ways your peers have become more efficient.
If they are doing better than you, act quickly before it is too late. If
you think that you are ahead of the pack, tell us how you did it. <BR>
<BR>
</B>
<H3>OUTSOURCING <BR>
<BR>
1. Outsource your payables processing </H3>
When Enron, the Houston oil and gas company, decided to outsource payables,
it estimated that the resulting cost-savings would reach $400,000 a year.
Since October 1995 it has outsourced cheque and wire production to Citibank
using the Citibank Payment Services system, and Barry Stewart, Enron's director
of treasury, is a satisfied customer. <BR>
<BR>
Before outsourcing the payables, Enron was printing 83,000 cheques a month
and issuing 3,000 wires a month through the treasury headquarters. Farming
out this work has greatly reduced back-office costs. Enron has also cut
banking fees, because when it outsourced the payables it also reduced the
number of banks that it used for disbursing payments from four to one. <BR>
<BR>
As the company was implementing the system it built an EDI server for the
corporation. This server has offered the company further cost-saving opportunities.
&quot;It enabled us to bring utility bills <BR>
in on electronic invoices and match those up. We were able to make a single
payment for a whole batch of invoices instead of one cheque for each invoice,&quot;
says Stewart, &quot;We eliminated some 28,000 utility invoices a month.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Enron chose Citibank partly because it was impressed with the bank's strict
control processes but also because Citibank offered Enron an international
connection, which allows it to issue payments from its overseas headquarters.
<BR>
<BR>
Enron is now pushing its business units to convert from cheques and wire
transfers to automated clearing house payments. The savings of conversion
are compelling - it costs Enron $8 for a wire transfer, but only 7 cents
for a clearing payment. <BR>
<BR>
Time-saving has been one of the most valuable benefits of the new practice.
&quot;Outsourcing has freed up the time for us to start working on linking
up our 28 global offices and setting up netting and pooling centres,&quot;
explains Stewart. &quot;We had to get away from the basic clerical work
of printing cheques and stuffing them in envelopes so that we could focus
on more value added services.&quot; 
<H3>2. Outsource your short-term investment management </H3>
Time and money can be saved by using the short-term investment services
that some banks make available. <BR>
<BR>
One bank that has such service is Chase in New York. It is offered through
Chase MDSASS Partners, a subsidiary of the bank that specializes in the
management of corporates' overnight and short-term investments. Each corporate
can specify how the portfolio should be <BR>
run - no investments in, say, tobacco. <BR>
<BR>
Those using the service have seen improvements in returns on their cash.
Steve Wilder, vice-president of global payment products at Chase in New
York, says that companies can expect on average to reap savings of 15 to
25 basis points annually on the cash invested with a specialist manager.
&quot;Customers will see the benefits of economies of scale that a specialist
investor can provide by pooling several funds,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
Companies also make immediate savings from the reductions in back-office
overheads - the costs of processing and monitoring payments and employee
time, which can be spent on more important matters. 
<H3>3. Outsource your netting </H3>
Honeywell Europe, the European division of US electrical components company
Honeywell, decided to outsource its netting system at the end of 1995 to
save on administrative costs. The company outsourced its European netting
system to Bank Mendes Gans in Amsterdam. The netting system serves 65 companies
in the Honeywell group, spread across 30 countries. It also serves a dozen
third-party suppliers. It costs the company $30,000 annually to outsource.
<BR>
<BR>
Jean-Marie Hubert, cash manager at Honeywell Europe in Brussels, says the
netting can free up &quot;two or three Mondays per site per month&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
He adds: &quot;We are concentrating on centralizing our external financing
programme in one location. Netting was more of a mechanical exercise for
us and we found it more useful to outsource it at a minimal cost.&quot;
<H3>4. Outsource your foreign exchange dealing </H3>
Companies that make low-value foreign exchange transactions can get a bad
deal from the banks. Transactions of less than $1 million are regarded by
many foreign exchange traders as nuisance trades because they are time-consuming
yet bring little reward in terms of commission. The set bank fees for such
transactions may be low - about $30 - but the cost of the trade is increased
by unattractive rates, which can rise to between 1% and 3% above the interbank
rate. <BR>
<BR>
Company treasurers who conduct a low volume of foreign exchange transactions
become frustrated at receiving poor rates, and tired of spending time shopping
around for a reasonable price. Outsourcing foreign exchange saves on back-office
costs and can result in better spreads. <BR>
<BR>
One third-party foreign exchange trading company is Sonnet Financial, in
San Francisco, California. Sonnet Financial pools its clients transactions
each day, and so is able to shop the market with one much bigger transaction
and change money at the interbank rate. Sonnet charges a company a flat
fee of $150 for each transaction. This is expensive compared with a bank
flat fee for a small forex deal, but the losses up-front are compensated
for by the better rates achieved on the deals. <BR>
<BR>
Sandra Molnar is accounting manager with Unicon International, a shipping
container inspecting company in San Francisco. The company's low volume
of foreign exchange trading has been penalized by the banks in the form
of unfavourable rates. Molnar says that by handing over the foreign exchange
dealing to Sonnet, the company has been able to achieve rates 2% lower than
the banks were offering. &quot;We saved over $42,000 in the first six months
of dealing with Sonnet,&quot; she says. <BR>
<BR>
In the UK, AMC Treasury Services, part of the trading and merchanting arm
of Amalgamated Metal Corporation in London, offers treasury consultancy
and foreign exchange execution to non-group companies. Like Sonnet, AMC
can take a number of small deals, put them together and obtain a better
rate. <BR>
<BR>
It also offers a service that it calls the London Close. Until 3.30pm it
will guarantee the London closing price as published in the following day's
financial press for deals worth up to &#163;1 million. Companies concerned
about having an apparently small corporate as a foreign exchange counterparty
should take comfort in knowing that AMC is majority-owned by German industrial
group Preussag. <BR>
<BR>
A UK firm offering companies an on-line exchange rate management service
is Syntegra, the systems integration business of British Telecom. Syntegra
has developed a system called Inter$Link, which links to Windows personal
computers and provides price quotes, automatic deal execution and bank pay-ments.
<BR>
<BR>
The system integrates payment services with forex dealing services. Companies
pay &#163;500 (about $750) a year to install the system and Inter$Link charges
&#163;10 for each trade. Inter$Link says that the customers benefit from
speed of execution and from being given transparent buy/sell rates. 
<H3>INSOURCING <BR>
<BR>
5. Be your own M&amp;A adviser </H3>
<BR>
Anglo-Dutch consumer products group Unilever made &#163;800 million-worth
of acquisitions during 1995. These deals were all done by the company's
in-house M&amp;A team and no external adviser was used. Out of the 37 deals
that made up the &#163;800 million, the smallest would have incurred a minimum
advisory fee of &#163;50,000. Fees for the bigger transactions would typically
have been about 0.5% of the total. <BR>
<BR>
At a conservative estimate, if Unilever had hired external advice on the
37 transactions at a fee of 0.5% of the total, it would have cost the company
an extra &#163;4 million during 1995. <BR>
<BR>
The biggest deal worked on in 1995 by Colin Duncan, head of Unilever's four-man
M&amp;A team, was the acquisition of UK food and drinks group Colmans of
Norwich for &#163;250 million. Unilever sold the Colmans drinks business
on to UK drinks company Robinsons for &#163;100 million. &quot;Seventy-five
per cent of the deals we worked on last year were fairly large deals where
we would certainly have paid fees varying between half a per cent and one
per cent,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
Duncan believes that calling in external advisers has no effect on bringing
down costs in-house. &quot;One thing banks don't do is save you work. Our
internal department would have been just as busy if we had used them on
the acquisitions.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Duncan did use banks on some of the 17 disposals the company carried out
during 1995 but he is sceptical about the value they can bring to bids.
&quot;They can sometimes help with the negotiation process because of contacts
they have,&quot; he says. &quot;It is very unlikely that they will have
a different view of what a company is worth to us, although they might have
a better view of what it's worth to other people.&quot; 
<H3>6. Bring tax work in-house </H3>
Hammerson, the UK property company, believes in bucking the trend of outsourcing
advisory services. Until two years ago it employed an accountancy firm as
its tax adviser. But in an internal investigation into possible savings,
group finance director Simon Melliss saw the annual bill of around &#163;300,000
as a cost that could be reduced. <BR>
<BR>
The group decided to appoint an internal tax manager in place of the accountants
at a much reduced cost of &#163;100,000 a year. With &#163;200,000 a year
less being spent on tax advice, $1 million can be saved within five years.
But has the saving compromised the quality of tax advice? Melliss does not
think so. &quot;The internal tax team is saving us money and is just as
efficient as the last one,&quot; he says. &quot;It gives us good internal
tax advice to company affairs.&quot; 
<H3>7. Bring legal work in-house </H3>
Last month US tobacco company Liggett Group said that legal bills of $10
million a year were one of the drivers that led it to settle a class-action
lawsuit related to the nicotine levels in cigarettes. With senior partners
at law firms charging between $500 and $1,000 an hour for their services,
Liggett is not the only company that could benefit from doing more legal
work in-house. <BR>
<BR>
Bruce Whitmore, general counsel at Atlantic Richfield, the oil and mining
company in Los Angeles, California heads a department of 85 legal staff.
The in-house team addresses labour and employment law matters for the company;
it does the legal work on small M&amp;A deals, and all securities work including
any initial public offerings documentation. <BR>
<BR>
In 1995 the legal department had a budget of $80 million, down from about
$100 million a year before. The 20% reduction in budget was caused partly
by general downsizing of the legal department, but also by bringing work
such as litigation-related work in-house. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The way to save money on litigation is to have inside people who know
how to do the massive discovery document work that is needed in big litigation,
which takes many years to try,&quot; says Whitmore. &quot;Paying an outside
firm to get hold of documents is very expensive.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
According to Whitmore, in-house lawyers bring much in the way of hidden
cost-savings to a company: &quot;The preventative law side of an inside
lawyer's work is more important than the curative law side,&quot; he says.
&quot;An inside lawyer who works with a business team and makes suggestions
that lets you avoid problems is very important.&quot; 
<H3>8. Do your own insurance </H3>
Setting up a captive insurance company to insure your company's risk can
save on hefty insurance premiums and benefit cashflow by keeping premiums
paid in the company. <BR>
<BR>
Subsidiaries may not be able to afford to bear levels of risk that can easily
be borne by the whole group. A captive insurance company that operates as
a wholly owned subsidiary will underwrite a group's risks up to a certain
level and, if located in a favourable tax environment, can make a good return
on capital. <BR>
<BR>
Many companies set up captive insurance companies in the late 1980s to settle
product liability claims for which they found it difficult to get a good
price in the external insurance market. Experts say that companies that
set up captive insurance operations inevitably suffer a run of bad luck
and losses in their first year of operation. But those prepared to take
the rough with the smooth will find a captive insurance company a highly
efficient way of managing risk. <BR>
<BR>
Tate &amp; Lyle, a UK company that produces sugar and starch products, was
one of the first companies to set up a captive insurance subsidiary, with
a vehicle in Bermuda 25 years ago. Its captive receives premiums from between
20 and 25 group subsidiaries both in Europe and in the US. The Tate &amp;
Lyle captive has a total asset base of $100 million and premium income of
about $15 million a year. <BR>
<BR>
David Creed, group treasurer, says that the captive has &quot;undoubtedly
saved us money on average over the years&quot;. The captive insures losses
generally of between $100,000 and $500,000 dollars. Insurance for losses
over $5 million, which are in the catastrophe risk category, is usually
held outside the company. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We have taken advantage of our appetite for greater risk by keeping
insurance risk inside the group,&quot; says Creed. &quot;If you run a big
enough and diverse enough book and you reinsure losses that you really can't
afford to have happen then statistically you should make a gain,&quot; The
Tate &amp; Lyle captive also writes third-party insurance. <BR>
<BR>
The other major advantage of Tate &amp; Lyle's captive is its Bermuda base,
which gives it access to a more favourable tax regime than that of the UK
or the US. Assets received by the Bermuda insurance company can be invested
tax-free. &quot;If you very fully capitalize your insurance subsidiary you
can earn a higher after-tax <BR>
investment return,&quot; adds Creed. <BR>
<BR>
There are other advantages to setting up captives off-shore: Willis Corroon,
the UK insurance broker, estimates that the compliance costs in most off-shore
jurisdictions can be two or three times lower than those incurred in the
UK. <BR>
<BR>
Bermuda is still the most favoured captive domicile, particularly with US
companies. But on-shore locations in the US, such as Vermont, are growing
in popularity. European companies are becoming mindful of the travel costs
associated with jetting off to Bermuda - a board meeting must be held at
the captive to placate domestic tax authorities concerned about tax evasion.
These firms are therefore increasingly redomiciling or setting up captives
in locations closer to home, including Guernsey, the Isle of Man and Luxembourg.
Tate &amp; Lyle is happy to stay in Bermuda because the company has more
assets in the US than in the UK. <BR>
<BR>
For companies unwilling to bear the start-up costs of setting up and capitalizing
a captive insurance company, there is an alternative. Companies may wish
to join a rent-a-captive, an insurance company that will insure the risk
of a third party. A company insuring risks with a rent-a-captive does not
need to stump up any capital, but it pays a set fee and will often take
a non-voting stake in the captive. A rent-a-captive set up by Willis Corroon
in the Isle of Man in 1994 charges companies &#163;10,000 annually to access
the captive and insure one line of business. 
<H3>CASH MANAGEMENT <BR>
<BR>
9. Use banks' imaging technology </H3>
<BR>
Imaging technology can make processing paper-based receivables that come
into a traditional lockbox system much more efficient. Several banks offer
a service that can take digitized electronic images of paper collected in
a lockbox. These images are transmitted through a company network, allowing
different departments immediate access to receivables documents. Heller
Financial, a US financial products and services company, adopted an imaging
system produced by Citibank. Citibank offers clients in north America its
Citibank Receivables Solutions product. <BR>
<BR>
Heller wanted to find a way to reduce the cost and time associated with
processing the 800,000 cheques it received annually. It paid $3 million
to set up the imaging system two years ago, but the <BR>
resulting cost savings have justified this investment. The costs of paper
storage, including administering storage and maintaining storage space,
could be eliminated because the paper coming into the lockbox could be kept
with the bank and destroyed after imaging. <BR>
<BR>
The company considered buying the imaging hardware itself, but decided that
it would be more cost-effective to outsource the businesses to save on labour
costs and technology costs. Also, as the paper was going to a lockbox outsourced
at Citibank anyway, the bank was able to get better results from imaging
because it was able to copy the original documents. 
<H3>10. Do your own imaging </H3>
Some companies in different situations from Heller will find it more efficient
to adopt the imaging technology themselves to automate the receivables and
payables process. US oil and gas producer Amerada Hess achieved payback
on a &#163;350,000 investment within two years after introducing imaging
and workflow technology into its Aberdeen accounts payable department. <BR>
<BR>
Before the re-organization, three accounts payable clerks were handling
18,000 invoices and associated documentation a year. Expansion in the business
means an average of 80,000 invoices are now processed annually, but the
workload is still handled by just three people. <BR>
<BR>
Incoming invoices are scanned into the system and sent to a workstation,
where invoice details are matched against the original purchase order, service
order or contract documents, which are held in electronic form. The operator
can also verify whether goods have been received before authorizing the
invoice for payment. If it is a large invoice (oil rig costs can amount
to &#163;80,000 a day) it can be routed to an accountant or engineer for
additional compliance procedures. <BR>
<BR>
Roger Thorne, financial controller, believes that the Invoice Processing
System has important implications for cost control within the company, resulting
in further savings, in addition to the headcount savings in accounts payable.
&quot;It's no longer a case of the finance department controlling the information,
&quot; he says. &quot;Budget holders can see all the documentation supporting
any item on their budget, so we don't need to have accountants running round
providing this information to them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Now training and travel requisitions and timesheets are also being linked
into processing system, which was developed for Amerada Hess by Filenet
and IMI Computing. <BR>
<BR>
Payments go electronically, via Bacs. Automated faxing of remittance advice
notes is being introduced, which will eliminate the costs of postage and
bring expected additional savings of &#163;47,000 a year. 
<H3>11. Don't make cross-border payments </H3>
There are two methods that a multinational can use to save money on cross-border
payments - by minimizing both the cost of foreign exchange and the number
of cross-border payments. <BR>
<BR>
The first method entails netting off all cross-border payment flows within
the group or company and using common bank accounts for transactions within
a country for payment made by any members of the group, so minimizing the
cost of foreign exchange. <BR>
<BR>
The second involves making as few cross-border transactions as possible
by sending aggregate payments to either a local subsidiary of the group,
bank branch or service supplier for them to make the payments at intra-country
rates, typically 10p per transaction, rather than at cross-border rates
of &#163;10 to &#163;20 and more per transaction. (See next month's Corporate
Finance for further details.) 
<H3>12. Check your bank statements </H3>
A careful reading of your bank statements may reveal substantial sums of
money going on bank charges that you should not be paying. Colin Moor of
UK Taurus Financial Consultants in Hemel Hempstead, whose clients are companies
with turnovers of at least a few million pounds a year, suggests looking
closely at interest rates, limits, commissions and set-offs. <BR>
<BR>
As well as ensuring that interest and limits are at the agreed rates, &quot;check
the basis of calculation of interest disallowed on uncleared credits,&quot;
he says, claiming that two banks made millions by increasing the amount
of days' interest disallowed for uncleared credit items. (It should not
be more than two working days). One of Moor's corporate clients recovered
&#163;80,000 of charges. <BR>
<BR>
Charges for setting off different bank accounts, some of which may be in
credit and some in debit, and commission are also open to interpretation
by banks. &quot;Never accept a percentage of turnover as a basis for commission,
and remember that offset arrangements are almost always handled manually,
and so very prone to error,&quot; warns Moor. 
<H3>13. Keep a check on bank charges </H3>
&quot;It is always a good idea to go out to tender to make sure that you
are getting the best pricing on bank charges,&quot; says Bill Scott, who
as treasurer at UK regional electricity company Northern Electric asks banks
to compete on pricing every three years. So far the tactic has resulted
in no upsets. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Last time we asked five banks to bid,&quot; says Scott. &quot;There
were significant differences between the lowest and the highest bids, but
we found out that our existing banker was underquoting the other banks.&quot;
<H3>14. Consolidate your lockbox system </H3>
The lockbox system is a vital tool for cash managers, particularly in the
US, where 99.9% of corporate payments made in the country are still made
by cheque. Receivables are sent to a lockbox at a bank or a third party
that will process the cheques and drafts and credit the funds to the corporate
account. But many companies have more lockboxes than they need, and should
be considering consolidation of their collection sites. <BR>
<BR>
Air Products and Chemicals, a gas and chemical company in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
consolidated its lockbox system in two stages, and saved what director of
cash management Greg Weigard describes as a &quot;significant amount in
fixed costs&quot; as a result. <BR>
<BR>
The company had built a network of lockboxes in the US over about 15 years.
These were in seven locations and were administered by five different banks.
Each location had a number of different lockboxes for different subsidiaries.
<BR>
<BR>
Says Weigard: &quot;We justified cutting down because a lot of very large
paying customers were converting to electronic payments and the float did
not mean as much as it did 10 years ago.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The first step was to cut the number of multiple lockboxes in each location.
Air Products decided that it needed only one lockbox for gases and one for
chemicals in each location. It combined several lockboxes, bringing the
total number in operation down from 20 to about 12. <BR>
<BR>
The next stage was to reduce the number of lockbox sites from seven to two.
Air Products invited three of its lockbox banks to bid for all the remaining
business. The winner, Mellon Bank, was awarded control of the collections.
<BR>
<BR>
Weigard says that this consolidation in cash management saves the company
about $250,000 annually in a combination of savings on bank fees and internal
administration. 
<H3>15. Improve your cash forecasting </H3>
MacMillan Bloedel, the Canadian forest products company, implemented a cash
forecasting system at the beginning of 1996. Joy Miller, manager of cash
management at the company, argues that the system makes investment planning
much easier. &quot;We have set ourselves up with a rolling 12-month forecast,&quot;
she says. &quot;We can look ahead a day, a week or a month and see where
we will be needing funds.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
MacMillan Bloedel is using a system called Treasury Manager, which has been
developed by a Vancouver company called JW Suttie &amp; Associates. It cost
C$20,000 (US$14,660) to set up, but Miller expects the system to pay for
itself within the year. <BR>
<BR>
Before setting up the Windows-based system, MacMillan Bloedel was unable
to forecast easily its position past 24 hours. Miller says the company has
become aware by implementing the system &quot;just how many recurring payments
or receipts there were. Treasury Manager lends itself to accepting recurring
transactions and to adjusting for improved accuracy.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
As well as aiding investment planning, says Miller, the system helps MacMillan
Bloedel access the markets much quicker. The company is in Vancouver, which
places it at a three-hour time disadvantage compared with companies in Toronto
and New York. &quot;Now we can hit the markets at 6.30 in the morning and
there is hard data available.&quot; 
<H3>16. Set up a pooling system </H3>
Automated cash pooling, according to Robert Bogusz at Citibank in Paris,
&quot;can achieve cost savings for companies of up to 40%&quot;. This method
of pooling company accounts minimizes bank charges and allows cash-rich
subsidiaries to finance those parts of the company that are cash-short.
Borrowing costs are reduced because the operating companies can borrow on
an intercompany interest rate rather than a bank rate. <BR>
<BR>
Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme, the European arm of Merck, the US pharmaceutical
company, has recently set up a dollar pool that collects all the dollars
in Europe. Says European treasurer Ian Johnson: &quot;We have put anybody
that has substantial dollar requirements for funds or surplus dollars in
a dollar pool in London so that funds are netted and we can invest or borrow
the net surplus.&quot; The system has eliminated costs and inefficiencies
associated with investing and borrowing externally. 
<H3>17. Persuade customers to switch to non-paper based payments </H3>
Retail companies and utility companies have to deal with a large number
of small-value paper-based payments. Cheque volume is declining in most
European countries, but is increasing by about 3% in the US. Bank charges
for processing a cheque payment are twice as expensive as those for processing
a direct debit payment. <BR>
<BR>
Companies are adopting a number of methods to lure customers away from paper
payments to cheaper methods of payments. Says Bill Scott, treasurer of Northern
Electric: &quot;We try to encourage direct debit to cut bank transaction
charges. From time to time we give customers an incentive to switch to direct
debit.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Such incentives include discounts and lower rates for companies willing
to have electricity bills paid directly from their bank accounts. <BR>
<BR>
Weigard at Air Products and Chemicals says that the company has had problems
attracting customers to use direct debit as a method of payment: &quot;Many
customers aren't that excited about giving a multi-million company the right
to debit their account,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
Air Products hopes that a relatively new system introduced by US banks will
make payment processing cheaper. The new system, customer-initiated payments,
allows customers to pay an invoice by telephone or computer. &quot;Customers
control how much and when they pay,&quot; explains Weigard. &quot;The cost
savings come because it's two or more times cheaper to process the electronic
payment internally than to process the cheque payment. It is much more efficient
because you can make the accounting information run straight into your receivables
system and general ledger.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The system also allows companies to see on what dates customers have pledged
to make payments and so it can aid cash-planning. 
<H3>18. Do cross-border netting </H3>
Netting intercompany payables and receivables results in instant savings.
Foreign exchange commission and fund transfer commission is eradicated.
The time between the creation and payment of an invoice can be speeded up,
thereby reducing the risk of rate volatility in foreign exchange. <BR>
<BR>
Laurent Boegart, treasury co-ordinator at the Brussels co-ordination centre
of Diversey, a Canadian chemical cleaning company, estimates that netting
saves the firm about C$100,000 a month. The company set up a netting programme
supplied by Bank of America in the early 1990s. Over the past 10 months
it has introduced about 50 third-party suppliers into the system. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;About 40 companies are part of the netting, and the netting involves
23 currencies,&quot; says Boegart. &quot;We have probably brought more of
the big suppliers into the system now. The companies that are not involved
are based mainly in south America, where cross-border netting is not allowed.&quot;
<H3>CAPITAL RAISING <BR>
<BR>
19. Take advantage of your SEC registration </H3>
<BR>
Foreign companies with a full listing on one of the US stock exchanges have
already paid for their SEC registration but some, having raised equity,
continue to issue debt or convertible bonds in the Euromarkets. On occasions
the US debt markets will offer them better value, particularly as they will
not have to fork out another $500,000 registration fee. <BR>
<BR>
Gold producers, for example, have traditionally issued Euroconvertibles
using the 144A facility and that includes US mining companies. But Ashanti
Goldfields of Ghana, which listed on the New York Stock Exchange in February,
decided to issue a global convertible. The demand from US investors was
so high that the company was able to knock 50 basis points off the coupon,
which was reduced to 5.5%. <BR>
<BR>
Says Ashanti CFO Mark Keatley: &quot;The US demand for the other deals was
one-third of the total, but for us it was 60% of the expanded size and that
was because of SEC registration. That extra demand took 50bp off the coupon,
which equals $1.25 million a year. Over four years that's 10 times the price
of registration&quot; (see page 10 for more details). 
<H3>20. Set up a medium-term note programme </H3>
For regular issuers of debt in the Euromarkets, savings can be made using
a EuroMTN programme rather than a series of bonds. The same applies to frequent
users of the US debt markets and US MTN programmes. <BR>
<BR>
Companies can issue tranches at lower rates than they can with Eurobonds.
Says a senior treasury member at a regular MTN issuer: &quot;As a rough
rule of thumb we can make MTN issues at 10bp inside where our Eurobonds
are trading. That is a saving of at least 10bp on both our Euro and US MTNs.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The company in question has about $100 million outstanding on each programme.
A conservative estimate for savings, assuming an average maturity of three
years, is $600,000. <BR>
<BR>
There is also a saving opportunity in the fees. Firstly with less need for
documentation, such as comfort letters from the auditors to the lead managers,
MTN legal and accountancy fees are cheaper, typically by tens of thousands
of dollars, than those on Eurobonds. <BR>
<BR>
MTNs carry no re-offer fees. Says a capital markets analyst at a leading
UK corporate: &quot;Depending of course on the size and maturity of the
issue, you could be saving 30bp, which could mean saving millions.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
MTNs also provide the opportunity for structured issuance whereby a borrower
would offer the investor a payout linked to, say, a commodity or equity
index. The borrower is swapped out of the exposure and is rewarded with
a lower interest rate for doing the complex deal. 
<H3>21. Set up a Euro-commercial paper programme </H3>
The recipe of Anthony Stern, director of tax and treasury at UK brewing
and leisure company Bass, for saving a million dollars over a year is simple:
&quot;Borrow from the cheapest possible source,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
Bass has achieved savings of almost $1 million since it started a Euro-commercial
paper programme just over a year ago. &quot;We have been able to approach
the capital markets and borrow <BR>
at much cheaper rates using commercial paper and disintermediating the banks,&quot;
says Stern. &quot;Compared with bank borrowings, our EuroCP programme has
saved us 15bp.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The company has about $650 million outstanding in the US and the EuroCP
markets at the moment. A saving of 15bp on that amount makes $975,000. 
<H3>22. Make banks cross-subsidize </H3>
Some treasurers are persistent enough to ensure that banks will produce
the cost-savings that they are seeking. In October Cadbury Schweppes, the
UK food and drinks company, was considering a fixed-rate Eurosterling issue
with a floating dollar swap. Fixed sterling/dollar swap rates had already
fallen several points in the previous four months from Libor plus 20bp.
Banks talking with the company about the issue were prepared to offer Libor
plus15bp. <BR>
<BR>
But Cadbury Schweppes wanted better than that. Says the director of treasury,
Tim Owen: &quot;Stage one was to get banks to tell us what rates they could
offer. Stage two was to set a target tighter than any of them, let them
work towards it, and the first one there wins.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The target set was Libor plus 10bp. Some banks said that they could not
carry out the swap at that rate. To the surprise of some investors, Cadbury
Schweppes achieved its target when NatWest Markets decided that it would
do the swap. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;If they really want the bond issue,&quot; says Owen, &quot;they will
cross-subsidize the swap from the bond fees.&quot; By cutting 5bp from a
five-year &#163;150 million issue the company is saving almost $600 000.
<H3>23. Use local currency </H3>
United &amp; Philips Communications, the joint venture cable business in
Amsterdam, has plans for rapid expansion across Europe. And as the treasury
team arranges financing for projects in Ireland, Portugal, Malta and in
eastern Europe, one feature of each deal is consistent. Says treasurer Steve
Butler: &quot;Wherever the financing is at, we finance the project at a
local level. So we significantly reduce the threat of any kind of exchange
rate exposure.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
This policy results from two considerations. First, a belief that European
currency convergence will not progress and eliminate currency risk in project
financing in the EU. &quot;I don't think a single currency will happen,
there is too much opposition,&quot; asserts Butler. &quot;From the standpoint
of exchange rate risk it would be good, but I think it is too hard to pull
together.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Second, Butler experienced the downside of dollar financing when working
at United International Holdings, a Denver specialist cable company, in
1992. A devaluation in the Maltese lira from LM0.36/$1 to LM0.30/$1 meant
that the US company had to raise 16% more liras to meet the dollar repayment
schedule. &quot;It is just following the simple principle of matching income
and payment streams,&quot; says Butler. <BR>
<BR>
United &amp; Philips has a LM9 million ($25 million) loan in Malta, and
is arranging an I&#163;45 million ($71 million) facility in Ireland. If
the Maltese lira were to devalue this year to the extent that it did in
1992 United &amp; Philips will have saved $4 million. 
<H3>24. Use covenants </H3>
In February 1996 UK utility East Midlands Electricity was faced with a choice.
It wanted to raise &#163;100 million ($150 million) of 10-year debt on the
Eurosterling market, but at a time that spreads in the secondary markets
were widening. <BR>
<BR>
Compatriot utility Yorkshire Electricity has a 10-year bond that was trading
at a spread of 69bp over Treasury Stock. East Midlands, which like Yorkshire
Electricity is rated double-A by Standard &amp; Poor's, might have been
looking at pricing a new issue 5bp over the secondary market rate. <BR>
<BR>
However, the utility included a series of covenants in the issue, which
reassured investors concerned about event risk and saved East Midlands money.
Besides the standard negative pledge and cross-<BR>
default clauses, East Midlands set out clauses relating to protection of
the company's core business. (For full details of the deal see page 34 of
this issue.) <BR>
<BR>
Says Frank Kennedy, director of sterling debt at joint lead manager SBC
Warburg in London: &quot;It is very easy for the company to give these covenants;
it was really a question of listening to investors' concerns.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
East Midlands' issue sold out on the first day, entering the market 67bp
over Libor - 2bp below the secondary pricing of Yorkshire's bond. It then
tightened to 65bp over. So the covenants helped to shave between 7bp and
8bp off the spread, saving East Midlands &#163;70,000 to &#163;80,000 each
year. 
<H3>SAVE ON VAT <BR>
<BR>
25. Tap non-EU investors </H3>
<BR>
A corporate treasury in the UK is exempt from paying value-added tax (VAT)
on the financial instruments it buys and sells, but it cannot recover VAT
on costs such as fees for issuing debt or equity. <BR>
<BR>
However there are two ways to reduce the VAT bill for a company raising
capital. One is to sell shares or debt to markets outside the European Union.
Explains Nigel Cockburn, a partner in VAT consultancy at Price Waterhouse
in London: &quot;If you sell to non-EU investors the VAT liability is zero-rated
and the company can get VAT back on all costs associated with that transaction.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
If a corporate is making a $500 million bond issue and is paying about 3%
all-in costs for banking, legal and advisory fees it is facing costs of
$15 million, and a VAT bill (at the UK rate of 17.5%) of $2.625 million.
By selling 40% of the issue outside the EU, 40% of the VAT can be reclaimed
- a total of $1.05 million. 
<H3>26. Use a special-purpose vehicle </H3>
Another way to save on VAT is to make the issue from outside the EU tax
jurisdiction. By setting up a special-purpose vehicle in Jersey, for example,
all VAT paid on services used to set up the issue is reclaimable. Therefore
savings are 17.5% of the total fee bill. On a bond of $250 million, with
2.5% fees for the banks, eliminating VAT saves over $1 million. 
<H3>27. Use a non-EU telecoms supplier </H3>
The alternative to maximizing the amount of VAT that can be recovered is
to stop it being charged. In EU member states VAT is payable on telephone
bills, and that can increase costs - by up to 20% in France, for example.
But by hiring a telecommunications firm from outside the EU, such as AT&amp;T,
a corporate avoids paying VAT. <BR>
<BR>
Says Cockburn at Price Waterhouse: &quot;Large corporations with phone bills
of $2 million to $3 million or more can realize VAT savings of between $500,000
to $1 million a year.&quot; 
<H3>OTHER WAYS <BR>
<BR>
28. Eliminate fraud </H3>
<BR>
A company that fails to introduce an adequate system of financial controls
risks incurring heavy losses. Anthony Stern at Bass has taken steps to prevent
this. &quot;We don't want to be a company that loses $1 million.&quot; he
says. &quot;We have instituted a project to make sure that all parts of
the groups responsible for handling cash understand financial risks.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The project is running throughout the 60 countries in which Bass operates.
Bass's strict guidelines governing exactly who can move cash in the company
include the provision that only the group treasurer can conduct derivative
transactions. <BR>
<BR>
But fraud remains uppermost in Stern's mind, particularly when faxes land
on his desk such as the one that offers Bass $12 million if it acts as a
beneficiary for the foreign account of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation.
The fax guarantees swift payment of this sum if Bass sends, among other
information, details of one of its bank accounts. <BR>
<BR>
Similarly suspicious faxes regularly land on the desks of corporate treasurers
and other senior company officials. It is difficult to believe that anyone
is taken in by them, but, as Stern says: &quot;People must fall for these
things or they wouldn't keep doing it&quot;. 
<H3>29. Change your annual report, or even get rid of it completely </H3>
Putting together an annual report and sending it to investors and the media
is a costly activity. According to one company secretary, it can cost a
top-50 publicly quoted company in the UK with an average of about 200,000
shareholders between &#163;300,000 and &#163;500,000 to produce a report.
Production and design expenses account for the vast majority of this sum,
although postage costs for sending out a 70-page document are also high.
<BR>
<BR>
UK publicly quoted companies have to produce an annual report but whereas
some insist on including page after page of glossy photos others such as
small conglomerate Stratagem save shareholders' money by using just mono
pages. The company sends its interim results on one page of photocopied
paper. <BR>
<BR>
US companies can do even better. They must satisfy annual reporting requirements
by publishing a Form 10-K report every year. This is a no-nonsense document
produced to fulfil Securities &amp; Exchange Commission disclosure requirements.
It is devoid of photographs of products and executives and, although it
takes a lot of internal time to write, it is cheap to print. <BR>
<BR>
Most US companies feel obliged to send shareholders an additional and separate
glossy annual report with grandiose statements from the board about adding
value. But some simply bind a few colour pages onto the 10-K document. <BR>
<BR>
Viacom, the communications and entertainment company in New York, does not
even bother with that. It has never produced an annual report. Says Viacom
spokesperson Nancy Bushkin: &quot;We have not found that we have a need
for one.&quot; She says that the annual 10-K report and supplementary information
issued on an ad hoc basis by the company adequately fulfils reporting requirements.
<BR>
<BR>
Nitpicking Viacom shareholders might suggest that she also does away with
the special with compliments slip that she encloses with the 10-K filing
to inform the recipient that the company does not produce a separate annual
report. 
<H3>30. Change your computer systems now to stop the millennium timebomb
ticking </H3>
At the turn of the millennium, older computers, which record year dates
on a two-digit basis, will take 00 to mean 1900 rather than 2000, thus causing
turmoil for companies around the world. Treasuries with five-year debt,
and companies that make consumer products due to expire after the year 2000,
might have already encountered the effects at the beginning of this year.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Most companies still do not realize the scale of the problem, but
I am not aware of a customer who will not be affected,&quot; says Ian Baker,
service line manager of IBM European Year 2000 Service Group. <BR>
<BR>
Awareness of the so-called millennium timebomb has begun to increase since
January. Many companies with thousands, or tens of thousands, of programs
to be adjusted are outsourcing the task to hardware firms and computer services
companies such as IBM, Unisys, CNMG and Viasoft. <BR>
<BR>
But companies that want to save money should act now rather than in a few
years' time, because the longer the problem is left unresolved, the more
costly it will become to fix. Demand for program engineers is rapidly increasing;
in the UK, for example, it will soon exceed supply. In the US some banks
and corporates with older machines are believed to have fixed retainers
on programmers who understand Cobol, a 1970s computer code. <BR>
<BR>
Some corporates are already employing professional programmers who are working
outside office hours on overtime rates. The cost for a corporate with about
10,000 programs that have to be made year 2000-compatible is estimated by
Baker at between $20 million to $25 million. And prices for the specialists
is set to go much higher as the new millennium draws closer. 
<H3>31. Use a purchasing card for small items </H3>
To save time as well as money, more corporates are using the purchasing
card - the procurement product that allows employees to make small purchase
orders. <BR>
<BR>
Purchases of under $1,000 often account for three-quarters of all procurement
transactions but only 10% of a purchasing budget. The cost of each transaction
averages $100 in the US. The purchasing card can eliminate several of the
steps involved in a transaction, such as approval of requisition, price
quotes and the invoice, reducing the cost to just a few dollars. It also
allows the company's purchasing department to spend more time on the big
orders where its negotiating skills can be used. <BR>
<BR>
Electricity generator Illinois Power says that within months of implementing
the First Bank Visa purchasing card in January 1993 it slashed costs of
small purchases from about $50 to 26 cents. <BR>
<BR>
Having established the product in the US, banks and credit card suppliers
are marketing it across Europe. In April 1995 Glaxo Wellcome Operations
set up a purchasing card programme using the NatWest Visa card, having completed
an in-depth analysis of purchasing operations in 1994. <BR>
<BR>
Says financial services manager Ken Park: &quot;We discovered that 45% of
our transactions accounted for only 1% of the annual spend value. They were
all purchases of under &#163;250, and were all non-discretionary items.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Park had already reduced the list of suppliers to just 14. He approached
them all to ask them to become Visa acceptors. Each one obliged. The cost
of making a small purchase for Glaxo Wellcome used to be between &#163;20
and &#163;25. Now it is down by 75%. <BR>
<BR>
The standard controls have been set up to prevent rogue purchasing. Limits
are placed on how much employees can spend on a single item and on how much
they can spend in a month. The choice of suppliers from which they can purchase
depends on the needs of the department they work in. <BR>
<BR>
Time-savings have already been made by cutting out orders and invoices,
thus freeing employees' time to concentrate on their jobs rather than filling
in forms; and the procurement department can analyze the data made available
from the bank and monitor the company's spending habits. &quot;Next year,&quot;
says Park, &quot;we are looking to cut out 6,000 orders and invoices a month.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
He is pleased that the card reduces management's role in making small purchases.
&quot;It's not a management tool,&quot; he says. &quot;In fact it can be
detrimental to the speed of the process to have a manager involved.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Savings from the purchasing card are spread across many areas: in time-saving
for managers, accounts department, treasury and the employees ordering the
products; in getting better value from suppliers; and in a cheaper payment
method. 
<H3>32. Introduce a supplier's card </H3>
The purchasing card is good news for the buyer of small-value items, but
what about the supplier? RS Components, the UK distributor of electrical
and mechanical components, realized in 1993 that the purchasing process
was too costly for the supplier. So the company introduced its own purchasing
card; a supplier card, the corporate equivalent to the storecard. <BR>
<BR>
The scheme was piloted in late 1994. The idea was to take benefits of the
purchasing card and improve them for the supplier as well as the purchaser.
<BR>
<BR>
Through the initial trial period RS unearthed issues, concerning the purchasing
card, that affect suppliers. For example, with high transaction costs, RS
had to put money and time (200 man days) to set up the integrated IT systems
needed to process large numbers of cards daily. <BR>
<BR>
Secondly, with the purchasing card the supplier takes on the burden of providing
management information required by the purchaser. Every order placed with
the supplier requires data entry and raises processing costs. Says Phil
Cocks, customer partnerships manager at RS Components: &quot;For RS this
equates to a 20% increase in time, and consequently cost, for every order
taken.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
On top of this, the supplier faces a merchandising fee from the card companies,
which is individually negotiated. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;These costs currently outweigh perceived financial benefits of early
payment, elimination of bad debt and reduced invoice handling,&quot; says
Cocks. So how can the RS card add value? <BR>
<BR>
The card is free for both the supplier and the purchaser, saving fee costs
for both parties. Fees that purchasers usually pay vary from 2% to 5%, depending
on creditworthiness and purchasing volume. So smaller corporates in particular,
which would have to pay nearer the upper end of that range, could derive
better value from the supplier card. <BR>
<BR>
RS also saves on merchandising fees, but more important is that at a time
when companies are reducing the number of suppliers they use it is a way
for RS to offer value to its customers via all-round supplier support, such
as providing transaction data and prompt delivery. <BR>
<BR>
Says Cocks: &quot;The RS card offers customers a one-stop shop for purchasing,
and so acts as a marketing tool for us.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Companies that have implemented a purchasing card programme should not believe
that a supplier card is incompatible with their own system. Some employees
already have more than one purchasing card for different activities - at
one US company the manager in charge of exhibiting his company's products
at trade fairs uses a different card for each event. In all he has almost
50 but this is often the most convenient way to separate different purchasing
orders. In this context <BR>
another card, though from a supplier, would make little difference. 
<H3>33. Spin off your finance departments </H3>
Making your finance department compete with outside providers for company
business can ensure a swift increase in cost-efficiency in-house. <BR>
<BR>
On January 1 1996, Shell Transport and Trading Company, the UK enterprise
that owns 40% of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, placed almost all its treasury
operations in a separate service unit called Shell Finance Services. This
unit includes all the company's banking, fund management, trade finance
and project finance divisions. <BR>
<BR>
Simon Hodge, group treasurer, describes the motivation behind the restructuring:
&quot;If the services the companies provide now are not competitive with
what can be bought outside we will go elsewhere,&quot; he says. &quot;Before
the project finance unit, for example, does anything, they will have to
make clear that they have a customer. Previously they could do whatever
they wanted and it just got charged into a general pool.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Staff numbers in the new unit have been reduced by between 25% and 30% to
about 100 people. Hodge says this downsizing has been carried out to encourage
future cost-saving, rather than as a cost-saving in itself: &quot;There
is no point just having cuts,&quot; he says. &quot;The point is to set up
a system to keep them lean and independent.&quot; 
<H3>34. Set up a commissionaire structure </H3>
Apple Computer was one of the first companies to recognize the benefits
of reorganizing its European marketing and distribution network in Europe
into a commissionaire structure. Many others are following its lead. <BR>
<BR>
Establishing a commissionaire structure involves changing the status of
local sales companies, which stop being full trading entities and take on
the roles of commission agents. Says Noel Davison, international tax partner
at Ernst &amp; Young: &quot;All the commercial risk, inventory risk, credit
risk and currency risk is taken out of the local sales company and retained
by the principal company which sells the goods into that market. This minimizes
the amount of profit and of tax generated in the country of sale.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The tax benefits of the commissionaire structure are clear. Profits can
be funnelled back to the principal company. This allows a US company to
minimize its foreign tax charges. Alternatively, the hub of the distribution
network can be situated in a tax-efficient location. Apple, which has its
European headquarters in Paris, has put its European distribution network
in the Netherlands. <BR>
<BR>
The only catch to the tax benefits of setting up a commissionaire structure
in Europe is that the EU may question whether the existence of low tax locations
are consistent with the egalitarian aims of the single market. 
<H3>35. Shop for cheaper telecoms services </H3>
Fast-moving technological change in telecommunications has spurred many
companies to abandon the private telecommunications networks that they set
up in the 1980s. The cost of constantly upgrading systems is leading companies
to outsource their networks to service providers. Companies outsourcing
their networks expect to save more than 15% to make the move from a private
network worthwhile. The fierce competition between telecoms providers reduces
the cost of outsourcing a system. <BR>
<BR>
Littlewoods, a UK retail and leisure company in Liverpool, saved 30% by
switching its telecommunication business from one operator to a combination
of local and international operators. The company's local calls now go through
Cable North West, standard trunk dialling calls go through Energis and international
calls go by Global One. <BR>
<BR>
Nick Ward, building and engineering services manager at Littlewoods, estimates
that savings achieved by changing over from the original operator have amounted
to &#163;100,000. The company has also slashed the cost of its mobile phone
bills from 33 pence a minute to 18 pence a minute by replacing the existing
British Telecoms link with private wires. 
<H3>36. Look after your property </H3>
&quot;A lot of companies are completely uninformed about their properties,&quot;
says KK Ho, manager in property and construction audit at Ernst &amp; Young
in London. Whirlpool, the white goods manufacturer in Benton Harbour, Michigan,
recently saved tens of millions of dollars by conducting a pan-European
property rationalization that included consolidating the company's operations
in Germany and Spain. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;With Whirlpool we have been looking at the leases and the way that
the company uses space,&quot; says Ho. &quot;Cost-savings cannot simply
be achieved by looking at which leases are coming up and which are easy
to get rid of. This can result in savings that are only theoretical. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Businesses are not looking at property in as strategic a way as they
could. You have to look at a company's leases in terms of the right infrastructure
and the right location. Bad planning, such as putting members of a business
team in buildings 30 minutes away from each other, may force teams to become
less efficient and what you gain by getting rid of a lease you lose in terms
of productivity. Companies put property too far down in the planning chain.&quot;
<H3>37. Set up a shared services centre </H3>
AT Kearney, the US management consultancy, has estimated that companies
that set up shared services centres can achieve cost savings of between
35% and 40% on a range of company activities. Many companies that have cut
costs by centralizing their treasury, invoicing and payments, accounting
and strategy functions in the US are doing the same in Europe. Services
such as tax, legal, travel management and telesales can also be brought
into the centre, boosting productivity and slashing costs. <BR>
<BR>
These shared administration centres have obvious benefits in terms of the
economies of scale that they can achieve. Back-office costs can be cut and
the combined centres have the resources to update and standardize systems.
The number of local banks and suppliers used can be slimmed down. <BR>
<BR>
Companies that have set up shared services centres in Europe include Whirlpool,
Allergan, Eli Lilly and Nike. Japanese multinationals are expected to be
the next to centralize administration in Europe. <BR>
<BR>
Shared services set up in a favourable tax location such as the Dublin Docks
gain additional tax benefits. Companies setting up in Dublin's International
Financial Services Centre have a 10-year exemption from local and municipal
taxes and corporation tax is set at 10% until December 2005. They also enjoy
a double rent allowance for 10 years, which lets them write off twice the
cost of rent against profit. <BR>
<BR>
Whirlpool set up a European shared services centre in Dublin at the beginning
of 1995. The company is centralizing the accounting departments formerly
based in 16 locations in western Europe in the centre. The centralized functions
include accounts payable, fixed assets, inventory and intercompany accounting.
Says Steve Freeman, director of the centre: &quot;The move to Dublin will
create something like a 35% total cost-saving, achieved through a concentration
of personnel and process efficiencies.&quot; 
<H3>38. Improve controls on supply chain management </H3>
Matching supply and demand is not easy for a global producer of consumer
products, and if the goods have a limited shelf-life excess supply leads
to deterioration and wastage. <BR>
<BR>
So to improve its control over stock levels and shipment plans around the
world BAT, the international tobacco producer and insurance provider, has
installed a worldwide sales forecasting and supply chain management system.
Holistic Systems, an international designer of business intelligence applications,
has won the contract to form the backbone of the new application suite called
Foresight. It provides information on sales, stocks and shipments from BAT's
worldwide operations, replacing the paper-based systems. Sales and stock
information is input by local distributors and feeds through to territory
managers who can determine future market sales. <BR>
<BR>
Brian Atmore, business area manager at BAT, describes the way his company
can benefit: &quot;We are active in 235 markets across the world where we
have no factories. We need to know market sales production, and stock levels.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;So when stocks are running low in any one of BAT's warehouses around
the world, Foresight enables our logistics centre in Southampton to accelerate
our manufacturing plans and exports to ensure replacement stock arrives
before the shelves are empty.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In addition to retrieving missed sales opportunities and cutting waste,
savings will come from reduced inventory levels and administrative overheads.
And BAT also expects to make more efficient use of the manufacturing plant
in the UK. <BR>
<BR>
The company is spending &#163;1.5 million on the project, but following
a trial in Taiwan it expects to save a minimum of &#163;820,000 a year.
<H3>39. Create an information warehouse </H3>
British Telecommunications usually has 2,000 projects going on at one time.
But keeping track of the costs and creating summaries of the financial implications
used to be difficult. With different accountants working on different spreadsheets,
there was no easy way to access centrally gathered information about those
projects. <BR>
<BR>
Cost-related information was spread across many data-resources: an Oracle
project information system for costings and estimates; mainframe accounting
ledgers for actual costs; the purchasing system for materials costs; and
a management accounting system to cost labour. <BR>
<BR>
British Telecom's answer was to create an information warehouse, which it
set up in 1993. The warehouse uses an Oracle database for project tracking.
It runs on a Sun Sparc 2000 with four processors and the Holos Tool at the
front end. <BR>
<BR>
It brings together all the sources into one manageable database from which
projects and labour could be costed. The package also provides management
reporting and decision support. BT believes that it has saved up to &#163;4.5
million a year by improving the quality and consistency of information.
<H3>40. Work more effectively with the marketing department </H3>
Treasury is traditionally viewed as an ivory tower that fails to pass on
enough information to the operating subsidiaries. It is up to the treasury
team to communicate its good ideas. <BR>
<BR>
A US electricity producer realized it could apply its risk expertise to
smooth over glitches in demand for electricity. <BR>
<BR>
One of its more important clients is a deep-shaft mining company. As the
price of the mineral falls the company has in the past reduced supply accordingly
and hence used less electricity. <BR>
<BR>
To stop the fall in demand, the electricity company has devised a pricing
mechanism whereby the price of electricity falls in line with a fall in
the price of coal. Explains Andrew Lese, vice-president at Emcor Risk Management
Consulting in Irvington, New York: &quot;The marginal cost of production
of electricity is low, so as long as the revenue from the electricity exceeds
those costs, it can accept a lower price.&quot; This reduces the production
costs of the mining company and maintains its demand for electricity. <BR>
<BR>
Says Lese: &quot;This is a great example of treasury and marketing teams
working together.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Additional reporting by Matthew Ball, Jack Large and Anne Quer&eacute;e.
<BR>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.04.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-14</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-3</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.04.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120714 text/html 5828
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:06:15 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 11:27:36 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5585
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: April 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.04.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.04.1.html"><b> How to save $1m</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Treasurers and finance directors under pressure to make cost-savings need
look no further than our list of 40 solutions.<BR>
Gwenan Roberts  &amp; Jeremy Adams
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* Deferred annuity bond the first of many. <BR>
* Go to derivatives school, for free. <BR>
* Who's who at the new Chase. <BR>
* Campbell Soup's new CFO. <BR>
* Time for a convertible. <BR>
* Platinum's rough ride is over. Or is it?<br>
<br> 
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
French companies seeking to unlock shareholder value should try demerging,
now that Chargeurs has led the way. Gwenan Roberts
<br><br> 
<b>Capital raiser </b><br>
Irish lessor GPA's $4 billion securitized bond issue blew out the door.
Here's how the deal was conceived, constructed and executed. Mark Fisher
<br><br>
<b>FX forecasting </b><br>
The dollar is set to strengthen against European currencies, but analysts
remain divided about its direction against the yen. Jeremy Adams
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 
<b>Trade finance </b><br>
The latest deals seem to have more in common with project finance than traditional
trade transactions, as Sonangol and BP have proved. Jonathan Bell &amp;
Matthew Ball
<br><br> 
<b>UK Corporate Finance M&amp;A under Labour </b><br>
The fear that a change in government would lead to a stricter takeover code
is driving much of the current M&amp;A activity. But corporate concerns
may be overdone. Euan Hagger
<br><br> 
<b>Debt raising </b><br>
Corporates that missed the opportunity to issue cheap debt in January will
need to use covenants to reduce borrowing costs. Plus: how Anglian Water
and Farnell tapped the market. Jeremy Adams &amp; Euan Hagger
<br><br> 
<b>Buy-outs </b><br>
Selling to management buy-out teams can realize the best price for non-core
assets, but the new companies created may not have the strength to survive.
Claire Cozens
<br><br> 
<b>Viewpoint </b><br>
British Energy has been turned around in the past six years, but it now
has little room for manoeuvre. Mary Bonar
<br><br> 
<b>Taxation</b><br>
How do corporates choose their tax advisers? Will they be tempted by accountancy
firms offering one-stop tax and legal expertise? Phillippa Cannon <BR>
<BR>
<B>With this issue: Risk Management &amp; Derivatives Yearbook 1996</B>
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-15</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-416</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.05.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174040 text/html 39585
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:39:31 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 25 Jun 1996 09:56:14 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 39352
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: May 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: May 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
May 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2><A NAME="convertible-market"></A>IRRESISTIBLE CALL OF THE CONVERTIBLE
MARKET </H2>
<A HREF="#convertible-market">Irresistable call of the convertible market</A><BR>
<A HREF="#alusuisse">Alusuisse a convinced convert</A><BR>
<A HREF="#baa">Blowout for BAA</A><BR>
<A HREF="#ashanti">Ashanti taps new vein of US interest</A><BR>
<A HREF="#taiwan">Taiwan eases brake on converts</A><HR></H3>

The depth of investor demand has been demonstrated by the response to audacious
issues from Alusuisse-Lonza, Ashanti Goldfields and Zurich Insurance. Matthew
Ball weighs up the best techniques for corporates ready to take advantage
of this friendly environment. <BR>
<BR>
Windows of opportunity in the straight bond markets are often open for less
than a day. Get in there first and you achieve the tightest of terms and
a nomination for Deal of the Year. Dither and you will have your lost your
chance. But so good is the opportunity to launch a finely priced convertible
bond, and so long has it been available, that there is not so much a window
in the equity-linked market as a gaping hole. Issue now and take the spoils.
<BR>
<BR>
Corporates that have done so this year have proved just how favourable conditions
are at the moment. Alusuisse-Lonza's $252.2 million convertible at the end
of February generated $3.3 billion-worth of demand in two and a half hours;
a day earlier a $250 million deal for Ashanti Goldfields had generated $1
billion of demand, and at the outset the company had expected to issue just
$125 million; Zurich Insurance's $731.61 million convertible was bought
by SBC Warburg on the night of Thursday March 14 and three hours after launch
the next morning the deal had been subscribed several times. <BR>
<BR>
The main reason that it is an issuer's market at the moment is the imbalance
between supply and demand. Companies that have needed to borrow have found
the loan and bond markets more to their liking over the past 18 months,
so the number of new equity-linked deals has fallen (see chart below). Convertible
investors' long cash positions are becoming larger as an increasing number
of issues are called, redeemed or bought back, often as the result of corporate
takeovers. <BR>
<BR>
As the table and graph on the next page show, more and more issues are becoming
callable as the year progresses. In the US, for example, almost $15 billion-worth
of convertible instruments will become callable this year. Many convertibles
were launched in the early 1990s, when issuers were of a lower credit quality
and needed to rebuild their balance sheets. Now that they have become callable,
companies - long cash and with higher ratings and share prices - are exercising
that option because the original terms of the deal appear less attractive.
<BR>
<BR>
Demand is also increasing because the number of dedicated convertible funds
is rising, particularly in the US, Switzerland, France and the UK, according
to Peter Warren, convertible analyst at Goldman Sachs. The rise is mainly
due to a desire to achieve low-risk diversification and a search for additional
returns. &quot;Fixed-income investors are finding it increasingly difficult
to outperform their peers,&quot; he says. &quot;With convertibles they can
quantify the risk and get the equity upside.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
With demand outstripping supply, investors would normally buy secondary-market
paper, but much of this is either so far out of the money that it is essentially
trading like a bond (the share prices of French issuers, for example, have
underperformed) or so deep in the money that it is equity (such as those
from Swiss issuers who enjoyed impressive share price rises over the past
18 months). 
<H3>Deep-discount successes </H3>
To take advantage of these excellent market conditions corporates considering
issuing a convertible should look at the recent successful deals which illustrate
the techniques that work best. <BR>
<BR>
Investors are seeking high-quality names that bring deals with maturities
of less than 10 years - in 1995 less than 5% of new issues had maturities
of 11 years or over, compared with more than 30% in 1993, according to Goldman
Sachs. This is due to investors becoming more risk-averse and the strong
demand from Swiss retail for short-dated paper. <BR>
<BR>
The recent convertibles issued by Alusuisse-Lonza and Zurich Insurance show
how issuers are also coming to realize the benefits of the deep-discount
structure. Previous deals by Swiss issuers came from Swiss Re and Sandoz
(see issue 133, December 1995, pp18-19). For companies that have a high
compounded annual share price growth rate the structure offers the most
cost-effective equity-linked financing alternative. The rising conversion
premium allows issuers to retain more of their share price's upside potential
than other forms of equity-linked issuance, such as a bond with equity warrants
or a traditional convertible. For companies with a low growth rate the opposite
is true. The yield to maturity is higher with a deep-discount structure,
so if conversion does not take place the issuer will have a higher cost
of debt. <BR>
<BR>
The instrument's accrued interest makes up a significant part of the yield
to maturity. This interest is foregone by investors who choose to convert.
The longer they wait to convert the more interest has accrued and the higher
the share price has to rise to make conversion worthwhile. <BR>
<BR>
The structure thus sends a bullish message about the company's future share
price performance. On the Alusuisse deal the initial conversion premium
is 19.44%, rising to 32.77% in year five. For Zurich Insurance the initial
premium is 25%, rising to 54.8% in year seven. <BR>
<BR>
Demand for this instrument is highest when the bond is denominated in dollars
and when it offers a coupon - European investors prefer to receive running
yield. Alusuisse offered 2% and Zurich 1%. <BR>
<BR>
For the Alusuisse deal bookbuilding was used, as it was for Sandoz's deep-discount
convert, rather than a first-come, first-served Eurobond-style placement.
This gives the issuer an underwriting commitment but also the distribution
skills of the banks. The Alusuisse book was built in just two and a half
hours but joint leads CS First Boston and Goldman Sachs spent almost 10
hours on allocation - comparable to the time banks would spend allocating
a $300 million equity deal whose book had been built over three weeks. 
<H3>Placement innovation </H3>
Zurich Insurance's deal illustrates another trend - such is the demand for
new equity-linked issues that a bought deal is possible. SBC Warburg bought
Zurich's $732 million nominal deal ($591 million gross proceeds) and then
found $4 billion-worth of demand in three hours, without the benefit of
roadshows or a prospectus. <BR>
<BR>
The bought deal gives the issuer certainty of proceeds and terms. The conversion
premium at maturity of 54.8% is one of the highest ever for an international
convertible. The yield to maturity of 4.2% is equivalent to the seven-year
US Treasury yield less 197 basis points. <BR>
<BR>
Overnight deals have found favour with US issuers such as Staples, Homestake,
American Medical Response and Continental. Once the US equity market closes,
the banks call US investors before they go home for the evening and start
building demand. The book is then passed on to Europe and is closed before
the US market reopens. Share price skid can thus be avoided. <BR>
<BR>
For the banks it is a risky strategy. If they cannot find sufficient demand
in such a short time they will end up holding the bonds when the market
reopens. But, as one banker puts is &quot;when it works, it's beautiful&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
US airline Continental's issue in February raised $230 million including
the greenshoe. The 10-year deal carried a 22% conversion premium with a
6.75% coupon. Just 92 days earlier the same company had issued a $225 million
equity-linked deal which carried the same premium but whose coupon was a
much higher 8.5%. 
<H3>Opportunist potential </H3>
But despite the attractive terms on offer the equity-linked market has yet
to become a source of financing that corporates tap opportunistically. This
strategy continues to be the preserve of the bond and medium-term note markets.
Companies tend to launch convertibles only for corporate finance reasons.
Alusuisse-Lonza's deal, for example, was the last step in the company's
refinancing of its acquisition of Anglo-Canadian packaging group Lawson
Mardon in 1994, and the money raised by Ashanti Goldfields' global convertible
was to help pay for the company's recent acquisition of Cluff Resources
and new business opportunities. Zurich is using its proceeds to finance
the continued expansion of its activities outside Switzerland. <BR>
<BR>
The same holds true for deals last year: Grand Metropolitan's acquisition
of Pet spurred its convertible, which was launched after extensive roadshows;
Swiss Re was involved in a recapitalization after its business reorganization;
and Axa launched its deal six weeks after its takeover of National Mutual.
<BR>
<BR>
Some heads of origination at banks believe that the market could start attracting
opportunistic borrowers - the overnight structure would be one of the best
methods for this - whereas most think the bond markets will always be more
attractive. <BR>
<BR>
Says the head of equity at one US bank: &quot;On a pure financing cost basis
equity-linked is not going to win, but if you are raising capital to finance
the transformation of your balance sheet then it <BR>
is always going to be near top of the pops, with minimal earnings dilution,
low cost till conversion and low running yields.&quot; <HR><BR>
<B>Global equity-linked new issue supply remains light</B> <IMG SRC="../../../EMWL%20processed/CF/cf.96.05.cover-story/EqBars.GIF"
WIDTH="510" HEIGHT="282" NATURALSIZEFLAG="0" ALIGN="BOTTOM"> <HR><B>Percent
of market capitalization that is callable*</B><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=6>*Either absolutely or provisionally, both now and in six
months' time, as of</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=6>March 29, 1996. Based on
provisions in prospectus rather than prevailing</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=6>underlying
share price</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Country</TD> <TD>No
hard call</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>No provisional</TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">or region</TD> <TD>protection</TD> <TD>(6
months)</TD> <TD>call</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >(6 months)</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Africa</TD>
<TD>0.00</TD> <TD>0.00</TD> <TD>39.77</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >39.77</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Australia</TD> <TD>47.78</TD> <TD>69.40</TD>
<TD>100.00</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >100.00</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">France</TD>
<TD>51.74</TD> <TD>51.74</TD> <TD>18.70</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >18.70</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Hong Kong</TD> <TD>56.93</TD> <TD>56.93</TD>
<TD>21.92</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >30.47</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Indonesia</TD>
<TD>55.00</TD> <TD>55.00</TD> <TD>55.00</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >71.38</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">India</TD> <TD>37.19</TD> <TD>44.07</TD>
<TD>7.83</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >7.83</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Italy</TD>
<TD>65.84</TD> <TD>65.84</TD> <TD>84.11</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >84.11</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Korea</TD> <TD>92.96</TD> <TD>100.00</TD>
<TD>17.49</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >17.49</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Luxembourg</TD>
<TD>100.00</TD> <TD>100.00</TD> <TD>100.00</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >100.00</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Malaysia</TD> <TD>9.41</TD> <TD>18.70</TD>
<TD>4.85</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >4.85</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Netherlands</TD>
<TD>10.11</TD> <TD>10.11</TD> <TD>41.60</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >41.60</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Philippines</TD> <TD>11.47</TD> <TD>11.47</TD>
<TD>24.84</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >24.84</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Portugal</TD>
<TD>0.00</TD> <TD>0.00</TD> <TD>51.57</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >51.57</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Scandinavia</TD> <TD>12.33</TD> <TD>12.33</TD>
<TD>82.69</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >82.69</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Spain</TD>
<TD>0.00</TD> <TD>100.00</TD> <TD>100.00</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >100.00</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Switzerland</TD> <TD>7.09</TD>
<TD>7.09</TD> <TD>90.34</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >90.34</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Taiwan</TD>
<TD>23.25</TD> <TD>23.25</TD> <TD>0.00</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >0.00</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Thailand</TD> <TD>13.18</TD> <TD>18.51</TD>
<TD>7.93</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >7.93</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">UK</TD>
<TD>14.01</TD> <TD>31.56</TD> <TD>23.48</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >23.48</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=6 ALIGN="RIGHT">Source: Goldman Sachs</TD> </TR> </TABLE>
<HR><B>How much is callable</B><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2></TD>As of March 29, 1996</TD> </TR> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>%
of market</TD> <TD>Callable</TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>capitalization</TD>
<TD>in 6 months'</TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Region</TD> <TD>callable now</TD>
<TD>time*</TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>SE Asia</TD> <TD>14.30%</TD> <TD>18.50%</TD>
<TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Europe</TD> <TD>10.01%</TD> <TD>10.26%</TD> <TD></TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=2>*Assuming no share price movement during next six
months.</TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>Source: Goldman Sachs</TD> </TR> </TABLE> <HR><BR>
<B>Calling all US convertibles </B><IMG SRC="../../../EMWL%20processed/CF/cf.96.05.cover-story/ConvertChart.GIF"
WIDTH="336" HEIGHT="282" NATURALSIZEFLAG="0" ALIGN="BOTTOM"> <BR>
<HR><B>Some recently called issues</B><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD>US</TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>American Brands</TD> <TD>7.625%
2001</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Browning Ferris</TD> <TD>6.750% 2005</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>UK</TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>RMC</TD> <TD>8.750% 2006</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Tesco</TD> <TD>9.000% 2005</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>EE Finance</TD> <TD>8.750%
2006</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Daily Mail</TD> <TD>8.750% 2005</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>SG
Warburg</TD> <TD>6.500% 2008</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Yorkshire Water</TD> <TD>6.750%
2008</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Forte</TD> <TD>6.750% 2008</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>France</TD>
<TD></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>Promodes</TD> <TD>5.500% 2000</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>IBM
France</TD> <TD>5.750% 1998</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=2 ALIGN="CENTER">Source:
Goldman Sachs</TD> </TR> </TABLE> <HR>
<H1><A NAME="alusuisse"></A>Alusuisse a convinced convert </H1>
<B>A $252.5 million deep-discount convertible was the culmination of a financing
programme for the Swiss conglomerate's acquisition of Lawson Mardon. It
met all objectives elegantly - and all in line with giving shareholder satisfaction.
</B><BR>
<BR>
When Swiss chemical, packaging and aluminium group Alusuisse-Lonza bought
the Canadian-British packaging group Lawson Mardon in 1994 for Sfr610 million
plus Sfr490 million of debt it also acquired the company's chief financial
officer Sergio Marchionne. He became executive vice-president in charge
of corporate development, taxation and legal affairs, and when Alusuisse's
CFO, Georges Schorderet, moved to Swissair in January last year Marchionne
succeeded him. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;I was inherited as part of the acquisition,&quot; he says, &quot;and
as I keep telling people on the inside, I constituted the largest chunk
of the goodwill that came along with it.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
At Sfr547 million that may seem expensive, but chief executive Theodor Tschopp
should consider it money well spent. And so should the company's shareholders,
who have profited from the emphasis that the two have placed on shareholder
value. <BR>
<BR>
Marchionne has been responsible for the last two parts of the three-stage
refinancing of the Lawson takeover. The first part in 1994 was a one-for-six
Sfr405 million capital increase. Marchionne followed this with a Sfr240
million seven-year vanilla convertible in 1995 that carried a 2.25% coupon.
The issue was aimed at domestic investors. <BR>
<BR>
The third part was more adventurous - a $252.5 million deep-discount convertible.
&quot;We spent a good six months analyzing the options that we had in terms
of going back to the Euromarkets with a convertible issue,&quot; says Marchionne.
&quot;We were limited by the size of issue we could launch because of the
authorization of what's called contingent or authorized capital. We could
issue only 240,000 shares on conversion. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;In addition to that we wanted to make sure we came up with the least-cost
alternative for the financing; we wanted to be sure dilution would be minimized.&quot;
This was achieved with an effective conversion premium in the final year
of 32.77% and a hard call in the fifth year. <BR>
<BR>
The issue was dollar-denominated for two reasons. First, explains Marchionne:
&quot;When you look at our debt portfolio the bulk of our borrowings are
in Swiss francs; the second tranche in terms of size is in sterling because
of the Lawson Mardon acquisition and some internal refinancing we did a
few years ago. The US dollar exposure was short and therefore we decided
to increase the position by going to a US dollar convertible. It was effectively
done to provide a natural hedge against our US dollar earnings.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Second, a dollar issue would access the most investors, including those
new to the company. Alusuisse chose a Euro-issue rather than a Euro with
a 144A option because it wanted to focus on European distribution, which
would match the concentration of its business interests. <BR>
<BR>
This also meant that a rating was unnecessary (banks rate the company a
single-A). Says Marchionne: &quot;We have found the markets incredibly receptive
- the question of a rating has never been an issue for the group. A lot
of it depends on whether we go outside of the traditional financing markets
and if we did that it would obviously necessitate a rating. But given the
type of results we have had with this issue and the appetite we have found
in Europe and elsewhere it is questionable whether in the short to medium
term we will be looking for financing alternatives outside of this context.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Marchionne selected a four-strong syndicate with CS First Boston and Goldman
Sachs as joint leads. The company had never used Goldman for any corporate
finance work before. Says Marchionne: &quot;One may have had initial fears
about putting two big houses like that together. We were pleasantly and
incredibly surprised by the level of co-operation between the two institutions.
They both had a very clear objective to make this issue as successful as
it could be and there was absolutely no friction at all. There was a high
level of congruence in terms of the strategy in going to the Euromarket.&quot;
<H3>Choosing the time </H3>
The original plan had been to launch the deal on Tuesday February 27, a
day after the company announced its 1995 results. Net income rose 86% compared
with 1994 but the share price fell as investors took profits. There was
also some concern about the tone of the company's statements about the coming
year. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We were unwilling to establish forecasts for 1996 not because we have
any sort of gloomy views about 1996 but because as a matter of policy we
don't opine,&quot; says Marchionne. &quot;It was a much easier task to suggest
that 1995 at the time we released '94 results would be much better than
'94. But having gone through '95 as a year in which there were no restructuring
provisions made and there were no extraordinary items - it was the first
full year of our industrial operations outside of the restructuring period
- we were quite cautious about issuing forecasts about '96. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;I think the market was expecting a more bullish statement on our part.
As you can imagine, people have taken profits out of the position because
the stock has had a significant rise since the beginning of '95.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The convertible deal was sensibly delayed to allow analysts to write their
research and for the company to carry out its investor relations effort.
The share price recovered and the deal was launched on Thursday February
29. <BR>
<BR>
Says Marchionne: &quot;There's always a process that goes on immediately
after the results that we have to carry out - a rather extensive discussion
with the analysts about '95 and our views about '96. We needed that information
to really seep into the market in the normal way and I think it would have
been totally reckless from our standpoint to try to get into the markets
without having allowed the investment analysts to digest the information.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The company, which has a market capitalization of Sfr5.5 billion, also decided
to announce the $92 million acquisition of US packaging group Mebane on
the day the deal was launched. This was viewed as a positive move, increasing
the company's exposure to industries other than aluminium, which in 1995
still accounted for more income than either of Alusuisse's other two groups.
<BR>
<BR>
The $230 million convertible was launched at 8am London time with a coupon
of 2%, a yield-to-maturity of 4.25% and an indicated conversion premium
range of 17% to 20%. When the book was closed $3.3 billion-worth of demand
had been generated by the syndicate. The overallotment option of $22.5 million
was exercised, taking the deal size to $252.5 million. The conversion premium
was set at the higher end of the range, 19.4%. <BR>
<BR>
About 47% was bought by Swiss accounts, 23% by UK investors, 24% by investors
in the rest of Europe and 6% by accounts in the rest of the world. 
<H3>Objectives met </H3>
The deal achieved the company's objectives:- <BR>
<BR>
* To gain access to a broad range of high-quality long-term investors, particularly
outside Switzerland. <BR>
<BR>
* To raise cost-effective equity-linked debt at a substantial discount to
risk-free rates (the rate is equivalent to five-year US Treasuries less
90 basis points). <BR>
<BR>
* To take advantage of favourable market conditions to achieve a high conversion
premium. <BR>
<BR>
* To minimize the extent of earnings-per-share dilution (the deep discount
structure delays conversion). <BR>
<BR>
* To send a clear signal to investors about the company's commitment to
enhancing shareholder value (the effective conversion premium in year five
is 32.77%). <BR>
<BR>
Says Marco Illy, managing director at CS First Boston in London: &quot;By
any benchmark the terms on which the Alusuisse-Lonza convertible was launched
and priced were aggressive, which demonstrates the extent of unsatisfied
demand for attractive convertible investment opportunities.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But would Marchionne use the deep-discount structure again? <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Our instinctive reaction to that one is yes, given the success we
have had,&quot; he says. &quot;We actually like the structure. We like the
low cost of funding initially and we like the upside in terms of conversion
premium. The clear objective in our minds is to have the bonds converted.
These are not being done to provide cheap financing during the life of the
bond; the intent is clearly to expand the equity base but to do it on terms
that are beneficial to the group.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The company subsequently asked at its general assembly to authorize the
issuance of an additional 240,000 shares as contingent capital. Says Marchionne:
&quot;That is being done to finance possible acquisitions of the group,
so we are going to be in a position to access the equity-linked markets
in a similar way at our discretion. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We have clearly stated that we are developing a strong acquisition
strategy, both in the packaging and in the chemical sectors. There will
be additional transactions within the group that will come hopefully within
the next 12 months but I think it's premature to say.&quot; MB <HR><BR>
<B>Alusuisse-Lonza share price: significant rise since early '95</B><IMG SRC=
"../../../EMWL%20processed/CF/cf.96.05.cover-story/AluChart.GIF" WIDTH=
"336" HEIGHT="263" NATURALSIZEFLAG="0" ALIGN="BOTTOM"> <HR><B>Accretion
schedule of Alusuisse's US dollar deep-discount five-year convertible</B><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD></TD> <TD>Accreted price</TD> <TD>Accreted value</TD>
<TD>Effective conversion</TD> <TD>CAGR required</TD> <TD>Effective</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">Year</TD> <TD>per US$ bond</TD>
<TD>per US$ bond</TD> <TD>price (Swiss francs)</TD> <TD>for conversion</TD>
<TD>Conversion premium</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">0</TD>
<TD>89.96%</TD> <TD>8,996</TD> <TD>1,138</TD> <TD>-</TD> <TD>19.44%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">0.5</TD> <TD>90.87%</TD> <TD>9,087</TD>
<TD>1,150</TD> <TD>45.57%</TD> <TD>20.65%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">1</TD>
<TD>91.80%</TD> <TD>9,180</TD> <TD>1,162</TD> <TD>21.89%</TD> <TD>21.89%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">1.5</TD> <TD>92.75%</TD> <TD>9,275</TD>
<TD>1,174</TD> <TD>14.89%</TD> <TD>23.15%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">2</TD>
<TD>93.72%</TD> <TD>9,372</TD> <TD>1,186</TD> <TD>11.55%</TD> <TD>24.44%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">2.5</TD> <TD>94.72%</TD> <TD>9,472</TD>
<TD>1,198</TD> <TD>9.60%</TD> <TD>25.76%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">3</TD>
<TD>95.73%</TD> <TD>9,573</TD> <TD>1,211</TD> <TD>8.32%</TD> <TD>27.10%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">3.5</TD> <TD>96.76%</TD> <TD>9,676</TD>
<TD>1,224</TD> <TD>7.42%</TD> <TD>28.48%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">4</TD>
<TD>97.82%</TD> <TD>9,782</TD> <TD>1,238</TD> <TD>6.75%</TD> <TD>29.88%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">4.5</TD> <TD>98.90%</TD> <TD>9,890</TD>
<TD>1,251</TD> <TD>6.24%</TD> <TD>31.31%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="CENTER">5</TD>
<TD>100.00%</TD> <TD>10,000</TD> <TD>1,265</TD> <TD>5.83%</TD> <TD>32.77%</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=6>Source: CS First Boston</TD> </TR> </TABLE> <HR>
<H2><A NAME="baa"></A>Blowout for BAA </H2>
British Airports Authority will be spending &#163;4.4 billion ($6.69 billion)
on investment projects over the next 10 years. Group treasurer Faanya Goldin
is in charge of finding some of that money. <BR>
<BR>
Her first move was a 25-year &#163;250 million Eurobond in January. Successful
though the deal was, its was overshadowed by the blow-out convertible that
the company launched in the first week of February. <BR>
<BR>
Lead managed by UBS and Schroders, the 10-year bond carried a coupon right
at the bottom of the initial 5.75% to 6% indicated range. The conversion
premium of 17.91% was near the top of the 15% to 18% indicated range. The
deal has a call option from year five. <BR>
<BR>
The issue sold six times over, closed early and was trading at 101.5 the
day after launch. Goldin was especially happy about the interest shown from
US investors, who took up about 30% of the issue. &quot;The demand was partly
because of the equity element,&quot; she says. &quot;But what is important
is that a lot of convertible bonds are due to mature within the next year.
The market is getting hungry.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
BAA also managed to reduce the fees. Bankers assume that they will earn
2.5% from a plain vanilla Euroconvertible. BAA was willing to pay only 2%.
<BR>
<BR>
The company's present capital-raising spree was rounded off by the refinancing
of a &#163;275 million syndicated loan signed 20 months earlier. The new
facility is a seven-year &#163;350 million revolving credit arranged by
JP Morgan. <BR>
<BR>
BAA has its sights set on expansion in the US. Acquisitions there would
probably lead to a Yankee bond issue. JA <HR>
<H1><A NAME="ashanti"></A>Ashanti taps new vein of US interest </H1>
<B>The ambitious Ghanaian goldmining company consolidated its NYSE listing
with a $250 million convertible, of which US investors took up an unprecedented
60%. </B><BR>
<BR>
Ashanti Goldfields can barely keep out of the headlines these days. Two
acquisitions announced within less than two weeks of each other - a C$136
million (US$100 million) agreed offer for International Gold Resources of
Toronto on March 31 and a proposed share exchange offer for Golden Shamrock
Mines of Australia on April 11. <BR>
<BR>
The Ghanaian company has also been developing a taste for stock market listings.
Its stock is now traded in London, Accra, New York, Toronto and Zimbabwe.
And the market continues to speculate about its independence since Lonrho,
which owns a 37% stake, announced its intention to demerge its mining assets
and South African group Anglo American started buying Lonrho shares. <BR>
<BR>
However, Ashanti's $250 million global convertible, launched a day before
Alusuisse-Lonza's deal, received little coverage. The company had originally
thought that it might be able to raise $125 million but ended up generating
$1 billion-worth of demand. <BR>
<BR>
The eventual size of the deal was equal to the largest ever convertible
issue by a gold mining company. Canadian group Horsham's $250 million deal
in January was exchangeable into shares of Barrick Gold but the market saw
it as too big. <BR>
<BR>
Previous equity-linked deals from gold companies had been Euro-issues with
144A language, including those from US companies. Most of the paper therefore
went into Europe, with US investors rarely buying more than a third of any
deal. That convertibles from gold companies were essentially a European
product had always seemed strange given that US investors are the most knowledgeable
on credit (gold companies tend to be of a low credit quality and often unrated)
and they provide the most liquid market for gold shares, thereby according
the highest rating to ounces of reserves in the ground. <BR>
<BR>
Ashanti's CFO Mark Keatley was determined to break the mould, and as his
company had just listed on the New York Stock Exchange the opportunity to
distribute equity-linked paper to a wide range of high-quality, long-term
US buyers was too good to miss. <BR>
<BR>
Most global bonds are registered with the SEC but come in bearer form for
European investors, who cherish confidentiality. Ashanti and its advisers,
however, decided that such complications would not be needed. The bonds
were registered in Europe but cleared through Cedel and Euroclear, which
provided investors seeking privacy with a large degree of comfort. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;It was just easiest to do it like that,&quot; says Mark Bankes of
law firm Norton Rose, which worked on the deal with Cleary Gottlieb Steen
&amp; Hamilton of the US. &quot;A bearer option wasn't necessary to get
investor appetite.&quot; 
<H3>Good relations </H3>
In mid-January a beauty contest among Ashanti's closest banks was held,
with Goldman Sachs - the sole bookrunner - and BZW emerging as joint leads.
Says Keatley: &quot;In the syndicate were banks that had been very good
to us; they were there when we needed them - Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, HSBC,
Chase, SocGen, BNP, Merrill Lynch, ING Barings. In 1990 Goldman was one
of two banks to provide us with unsecured hedging lines for gold hedging.
Goldman stuck its neck out and we now have a seven-year unsecured trading
line.&quot; BZW had arranged a number of previous capital raising activities
for the company. <BR>
<BR>
Board approval for the issue was given on January 24. The purpose of the
issue was to refinance the debt incurred as part of the acquisition of Cluff
Resources at the beginning of the year (see issue 135, February 1996, pp24-30),
to pay for the out-of-pocket expenses of the takeover (that is, to pay those
Cluff shareholders that did not take Ashanti shares) and to pay down its
BZW-arranged revolving credit until new business projects arise. The subsequent
offer for International Gold Resources is one such project. <BR>
<BR>
Says Keatley: &quot;One thing we have learnt from the Cluff deal is that
even if it is ultimately a paper deal you have to have money in your pocket.
We have already done a loan and we may want project financing so we didn't
want to saturate that market. And we have tapped the equity market successfully
[via a $60 million private placement in August last year]. We are very focused
on earnings per share so we didn't want to do a deal for non-specific purposes.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;There is some implied dilution but only at a high share price - ie,
only if we perform. We have identified projects to materially increase gold
production and earnings. There will be 7% dilution from the convertible
and we expect the projects to increase earnings more than that.&quot; 
<H3>Roadshow feedback </H3>
The deal was launched with five days of roadshows, two in the US and three
in Europe. Goldman Sachs decided that there should be no indicated terms
during the US part of the schedule. The theory was that a relatively unknown
name would need aggressive marketing to help determine the best price; the
price would therefore be decided at the end. <BR>
<BR>
It was also decided to start with a relatively small issue size and increase
it gradually if possible. &quot;It's a tactic we have used often,&quot;
says Antoine Schwartz, executive director in equity capital markets at Goldman
Sachs in London. &quot;It can be best to start moderately and see the reaction.
It's an art, not a science. It's all a question of dosage - if you double
or triple the size in one go investors get upset.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
At the end of the US roadshows the indicative terms were $175 million, with
a coupon of 5.5% to 6% and a premium of between 15% and 18%. The $1 billion
in demand allowed the company and its banks to tell investors to expect
the pricing to be at the bottom end of the range and that if they put restrictions
on what they would accept they should expect their order to go unfilled.
The company was also able to prevent arbitrage. Delaying price talk helped
- the uncertainty discouraged arbs shorting the deal, and duplicate orders
and those from known hedge funds received no <BR>
allocation. <BR>
<BR>
Such was the demand that the deal was increased to $220 million and the
15% greenshoe, an additional $30 million, was exercised. US demand accounted
for 60% of the expanded deal. &quot;That was because of the SEC registration,&quot;
says Keatley. &quot;That extra demand took 50bp off the coupon, which equals
$1.25 million a year. Over four years that's 10 times the price of the registration.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The final pricing was a 5.5% coupon and 17.4% premium. Says Keatley: &quot;That
gives an exact conversion price of $27 and leaves a little on the table
for noteholders. It should trade well and we felt we had done our job to
existing shareholders.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
On the first day of trading the notes traded above par and the company's
share price rose 50 cents. This performance was all the more impressive
given that at the time the Dow Jones had fallen by 100 points and bonds
prices had taken a hammering. MB <HR>
<H2><A NAME="taiwan"></A>Taiwan eases brake on converts </H2>
Taiwanese issuers have long made up a large part of issuance from South
East Asian countries hungry for capital. As a risk-adjusted play on the
equity market for investors, equity-linked deals can offer debut issuers
an easier way into the international capital markets than straight equity.
<BR>
<BR>
Until recently, however, it was never clear that any of the bonds issued
would convert; all the outstanding instruments were issued with a non-exercisable
&quot;conversion right&quot; - investors held the bonds in the hope, but
without the guarantee, that eligibility restraints for conversion would
be relaxed. The assumption was that the Taiwanese authorities would get
round to finalizing the conversion procedures later, but this added an extra
risk for which investors had to be compensated. <BR>
<BR>
Issuance terms have therefore never been as favourable as they might have
been and, once in the secondary market, the paper tends to trade at a discount
to the notional value of the underlying shares. <BR>
<BR>
Now the Taiwanese SEC has brought out its conversion procedures. Investors
receive entitlement certificates for their Euroconvertibles, which are then
convertible into underlying shares. But the risk premium may have been only
reduced rather than eliminated. Conversion can take place on only four occasions
a year and it will take investors at least 80 days to get their hands on
the shares. The issuer must also appoint a conversion agent. <BR>
<BR>
For outstanding issues, however, the need to clarify and simplify the procedures
is perhaps less pressing. None matures until 2001. <BR>
MB<BR>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.05.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-16</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-262</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.05.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120636 text/html 5496
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:05:46 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 25 Jun 1996 09:56:13 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5255
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: May 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: May 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: May 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.04.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.05.1.html"><b>Convertible comeback</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Opportunities in the equity-linked market have never been better. But companies
considering an issue should first learn from the select peer group that
has launched successful deals this year. <BR>
Matthew Ball 

<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* Project finance goes private. <BR>
* Eridania snubs IBCA. <BR>
* How to liven up your annual report. <BR>
* Treasurers' pay on the increase. <BR>
* Who's moved where in treasury. 
<BR><BR>
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
BASF has gone on a spending spree, but nobody else believes that it is acquiring
the right companies. <BR>
Gwenan Roberts 
<br><br> 
<b>Capital raiser</b><br>
What Volvo, Coles Myer, Volkswagen, Redland and Peugeot think of their MTN
programmes. <BR>
Gwenan Roberts 
<br><br> 
<b>FX forecasting</b><br>
The Deutschmark's weakness looks set to continue in the short term, whereas
the Australian dollar is going to strengthen. Jeremy Adams 
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>

<b>Technology</b><br>
FX confirmation systems can save time and money while enhancing treasury
control. So why don't more companies use them? Anne Quer&eacute;e 
<br><br> 
<b>Eastern Europe </b><br>
Companies from the region and subsidiaries of western multinationals are
finding capital from international banks and investors to their liking.
Plus Ford's controversial Polish CP programme.<BR>
Jeremy Adams 
<br><br> 
<b>Risk management</b><br>
As a tool for hedging foreign exchange exposures, derivatives are not as
effective as you may think. <BR>
Thomas Copeland and Yash Joshi 
<br><br> 
<b>Cash management </b><br>
The best way for corporates to save money on cross-border payments is to
make fewer of them. Here's how the most sophisticated companies do it. <BR>
Jack Large 
<br><br> 
<b>Trade finance </b><br>
Late payment is on the increase, but trade finance providers have the solutions.
Matthew Ball <BR>
<BR>
The next issue of Corporate Finance will be published on June 3, 1996 
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-17</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-240</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.10.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114173758 text/html 24336
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:36:54 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 12:53:15 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 24099
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<P> 

<H3> TRY TAPPING NON-DOLLAR EUROMARKETS </H3> 

<P><H4> Corporates seeking to cash in on their rarity value and name-recognition, and investors looking for higher
yields can satisfy each other's needs in bond markets outside the Eurodollar
sector. <i>Charles Olivier</i> finds that deals in French francs and Deutschmarks have
been particularly popular this year.</H4>

<P> It is the start of 1996. Swedish automotive manufacturer Volvo is looking to
raise about $500 million-worth of debt. The Swedish company has strong cashflow
coming through from existing operations, so it does not need to borrow the money
all at once. It can afford to wait until conditions are right. "We will borrow
only when the cost of funds meets our target," says Anders Osberg at Volvo Group
Finance Europe in Geneva.

<P> During January and February, members of the Volvo treasury team meet
regularly with the company's relationship banks to discuss possible ways of
raising the money. There are a number of alternatives. The syndicated loan market
is offering cheap funds &#173; five to 10-year money at about 20 basis
points over Libor &#173; but the company already has two large syndicated
facilities outstanding, both of which it will refinance later in the year.
Another possibility is the Eurodollar market which, with its deep pool of retail
and institutional money, can always provide low-cost funds to high-quality
corporate issuers.

<P> But issuing in other currencies is also starting to look attractive.
Demand for higher-yielding corporate paper is reported to be strong. So Volvo
instructs its banks to keep an eye on possible opportunities.

<P> The Euro-French franc market seems particularly tempting. The crucial
question is whether the issue will be cheaper than a dollar issue off the
company's EuroMTN programme. With French franc Pibor swap rates (which Volvo will
use to price its franc/dollar swap) having risen to 20bp over the 10-year French
government bond (which will be used as a benchmark to price the issue), the
French market is ready.

<P> Having already discussed the issue with executives at head office, Osberg is
able to get the deal approved within minutes. Finally, on February 29, Volvo
launches a Ffr1 billion ($195 million) 10-year bond led by Cr&eacute;dit
Commercial de France and Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais. Despite offering a fixed-rate
coupon of only 7% at a spread to 10-year OATs of 45bp, the issue sells well. The
proceeds are then swapped into floating-rate dollars, leaving Volvo with about
$200 million of floating-rate 10-year debt. The final cost of funds is estimated
at about 10bp below the cost of raising floating-rate dollars off the company's
Euro-MTN programme. Other funding opportunities can be taken advantage of later
in the year.

<P> <b>Growing opportunities</b>

<P> Taking the time to consult with banks, being flexible and ready to issue a
large syndicated Eurobond in any of a range of currencies can bring its rewards.
Yet for many treasurers seeking to raise money in the Euromarkets, choosing
straight dollars seems the obvious solution if they are looking beyond their own
currency. It offers access to the largest number of investors and provides
safety in numbers: the dollar is the most frequently used currency for Eurobond
issuance.

<P> Tapping other currency markets, they believe, is best left to the financing
arms of Ford, General Electric, General Motors and Toyota. For the big four
almost any deal is possible. During the first eight months of this year, General
Electric Capital Corp issued bonds denominated in US dollars, Swiss francs,
Deutschmarks, Canadian dollars, South African rand, Dutch guilders, Italian lire,
Polish zloty, sterling, Australian dollars, French francs, New Zealand dollars
and Japanese yen.

<P> But Volvo's success is far from unique. And for those companies that want to
issue, the opportunities are growing. With bank bond issues offering less and
less of a premium to sovereign debt, investors are moving more of their
portfolios into corporate bonds to boost yields. This has certainly been the case
for Euro-Deutschmark issues. In the first nine months of 1996, more than $6.75
billion of Deutschmark-denominated bonds were issued by corporate borrowers. Only
$5.6 billion-worth was issued during the whole of last year.

<P> And although corporate bond issuance is above last year's level, corporates
remain a small part of the overall market and can cash in on their rarity. "There
is a dearth of corporate issuance in the European markets," says Manfred
Schepers, managing director of debt capital markets at SBC Warburg in London.
"Sovereigns and financial issuers take up 80% of the market. If you add the
frequent borrowers like GECC and TMCC, you are left with a minute section.
Issuers that fall into that category can really extract tremendous value
from their scarcity."

<P> For most sorts of non-dollar issue corporates need one of two things,
and preferably both: first, a strong brand name to tempt retail investors &#173;
McDonald's, Nestl&eacute; and PepsiCo are among the select few to enjoy this;
and, second, a good reason to tap the less-used markets.

<P> The motive is usually a need for finance in that currency or, more
frequently, a desire to take advantage of attractive terms from swap arbitrage.
It is the cheap cost of funds provided by this arbitrage that drives much of the
non-dollar corporate issuance in the Eurobond market.

<P><b> Which market?</b>

<P> So which market should a corporate issuer choose? In general, the
easiest foreign markets to tap have been those with deepest retail investor
bases, such as Switzerland. Between 1980 and August 1996, corporate issuers
raised more than $157 billion in the Swiss franc markets. Only $20 billion of
this was by Swiss firms. The average size of Swiss franc issues is just
Sfr75 million, making it possible for medium-sized companies to launch deals.
Lower-rated companies find the market particularly attractive, owing to the local
habit of buying bonds according to their coupon rather than the spread over the
benchmark.

<P> The Luxembourg franc market is dominated by investors from Belgium looking to
avoid withholding tax. But issuance has fallen significantly this year, partly
because of the large amounts issued in 1994 and 1995 and partly over fears that
the Belgian franc (which issuers use to swap the Luxembourg francs into from
their base currencies) will decline against the Luxembourg franc as the 
likelihood of a single currency increases. Counterparties have also proved
difficult to find as swap spreads have widened.

<P> Proposals made at the beginning of this year stipulated that all issues sold
into Belgium had to be at least the equivalent of Bfr2 billion in size. This was
expected to affect in particular Luxembourg franc issues, which are smaller than
most other syndicated Eurobonds.

<P> The Euro-Deutschmark market has been much more active. With Bund yields
falling, and financial issuers issuing at tighter spreads to government bonds
than ever before, investors have turned to corporate issues to increase their
returns. Blowout deals last month by Unilever and Nestl&eacute; prove that
achieving low funding costs is not always accompanied by a slow take-up by
investors.

<P> The hottest currency in the early months of 1996, however, has been the
French franc. More than $13.9 billion worth of corporate bonds were issued 
in francs in the first nine months of 1996. The range of issuers has
included Guinness, Philip Morris and McDonald's.

<P> <b>Interest rate differentials</b>

<P> In markets without strong retail investor bases, the opportunities for
corporate borrowers become less frequent, and much more dependent on fluctuating
demand. Corporate issues in these currencies tend to be possible only when
interest rates are significantly higher than they are in the key dollar,
Deutschmark and Swiss franc markets.

<P> In previous years, Canadian dollar and Italian lira-denominated bonds have
been quite successful. Both had high local interest rates, which attracted
Benelux and Swiss retail investors looking for higher yield. Borrowing
opportunities in both these markets have receded more recently as local interest
rates have fallen into line with other countries. Latin American corporates,
however, have found favour in the lira market.

<P> Now the Australian dollar and New Zealand dollar markets have stepped into
the limelight. With interest rates in these countries at the beginning of the
year at 8% and 9% respectively, both markets have been attractive to European
retail investors. The growth of retail investors in Asia has also given them a
significant boost. On a swapped basis, the net cost of these issues has often
been as low as Libor minus 30 basis points.

<P> "It's all about interest rate differentials," explains Adrian Bell, vice-
chairman of Hambros Bank, the leading arranger of Antipodean bonds. "Recently we
have seen a significant increase in New Zealand issues because interest rates are
higher there than they are in Australia or Canada." Kiwi dollar issuance
(including non-corporate issuance) rose from $50 million in 1995 to $2.6 billion
so far this year as a result.

<P> During the summer, however, Euroyen issues were attractive, with Japanese
retail investors keen to diversify away from local bonds yielding 0.5%. In August
alone, Volkswagen, IBM, Walt Disney, Vattenfall, Hydro-Quebec and Suntory all
issued into this market.

<P> For companies seeking something a little different, Euro-issues in Czech
koruna, Polish zloty and Norwegian kroner are now possible. Korean won should
also be on the agenda as Sinar Mas Finance included the currency in the 
documentation for its EuroMTN programme.

<P> How long before Jeff Werner at GECC launches a Eurobond denominated in
Bhutanese ngultrum? 

<H3> More than just the name at Pepsi </H3> 

<P> PepsiCo, the US drinks, snacks and restaurants company, is one of the most frequent issuers in the Euromarkets.
Since setting up its $1.6 billion EuroMTN programme in December 1994, Pepsi has
launched no fewer than 16 tranches, including one Italian lira, four US dollar,
two Swiss franc, two Luxembourg franc, two Australian dollar and two Japanese yen
deals.

<P> "We are a very opportunistic borrower," says Richard Thevenet, the company's
director of capital markets. "We have $9 billion of outstanding debt and $2
billion of outstanding commercial paper, so we are always looking for financing
sources that offer cheap funds."

<P> The funding cost levels achieved on some of these issues are rumoured to be
spectacularly low, perhaps as little as Libor minus 30 basis points on some of
the short-dated yen deals launched in July. Thevenet will not let on, but you can
tell that he is very satisfied. "I couldn't say," he smiles.

<P> Pepsi has a significant advantage over other borrowers &#173; its name. Even
on its inaugural lira-denominated Eurobond issue in January 1995 &#173; a L150
billion ($200 million) three-year deal &#173; Pepsi encountered few problems
finding buyers. "They didn't know us from the capital markets," remembers
Thevenet, "but our drinks and restaurant brands were very well known among
continental retail investors."

<P> Despite benefiting from the Pepsi name, however, the company's treasury team
puts in a lot of effort to make sure it gets every deal right. A team of dealers
constantly monitors issuance opportunities. On the lira deal, for example,
Pepsi's capital markets team spent several months looking at the depth and
liquidity of the market and the possibility of market shutdown. "We didn't want
to issue a bond only to find ourselves locked into lira," explains Thevenet.

<P> So far this year, Pepsi has concentrated on deals that target Asian
investors. "We have seen a lot of money coming into Asia, not so much into
Europe," says Thevenet. He has not taken advantage of the recent attractive swap
arbitrage rates in the Deutschmark markets because he was worried that the bonds
might not be fully sold. "We were told that a lot of the Deutschmark bonds issued
by overseas companies were just sitting on the shelves of the underwriters," he
says. "We want our bonds to go to investors."

<P> The key, he says, is to have good retail name-recognition, a good credit
rating, to have done one or two successful retail-targeted issues, and a good
speed of response. "We also look at who has issued before us. If there has been a
well-rated company that has done a bad issue, we probably wouldn't consider that
market because investor demand is not going to be there," he adds. Maintaining
good relationships with the principal debt houses also seems important. "They are
our eyes and ears," says Thevenet. CO

<H3> Sterling opens to mid-size </H3> 

<P> The corporate sterling Eurobond market has been dominated by UK utilities this year. Issuers have included Hyder,
Northumbrian Water, PowerGen, National Power, National Grid, East Midlands
Electricity, First Hydro and Northern Electric. But the market is almost always
open to other corporates such as Glaxo Wellcome, J Sainsbury, SmithKline Beecham,
BAT Industries and British Gas, all of which issued last year.

<P> A new group of companies, however, is finding that investors are willing to
hear their story and buy their sterling bonds: mid-size unrated corporates
offering high-yield paper.

<P> This market's principal is Bankers Trust, which has lead managed three such
issues in the past 15 months: Independent Newspapers (June 1995, 10-year,
&#163;75 million [$117 million], 9.25%, 125bp over gilts), Computacentre
(November 1995, seven-year, &#163;50 million, 10%, 225bp over gilts) and last
month Fitzwilton, which issued &#163;80 million-worth of 10-year notes priced at
a spread of 175bp over gilts.

<P> All three companies are unrated and their bonds offer a substantial pick-up
over other unrated corporate bonds such as those by Daily Mail &amp; General
Trust and Ladbroke Group.

<P> Fitzwilton, an Irish company, will not be swapping the proceeds into punts
because it has raised the money to fund expansion at its supermarket subsidiary
Wellworths, which runs 37 stores in Northern Ireland and therefore requires
sterling.

<P> For Patrick Dowling, Fitzwilton's group finance director, the deal made a lot
of sense; Wellworths' cashflow was being used up to pay an amortizing seven-year
bank facility. "On a like-for-like basis it is cheaper funding," he says, "and
now the cashflow is available for investing in the business.

<P> "With syndicated loans the best maturity you can get is seven years," he
adds. "The bond offers a longer maturity but you can also access a broader
investor base. If pension funds are interested in our bonds maybe they will be
interested in our shares too."

<P> The company had discussed the deal with its bank in May and decided to wait
until after the summer to issue. There was also the small matter of arranging
certificates of title for Wellworths' properties as the bonds are secured on the
company's supermarkets. "It's really a belt and braces approach," says James
Courtenay, vice-president at Bankers Trust in London. "For this size of issuer
investors required additional comfort, though they are relying primarily on
stable cashflows."

<P> More than 40 investors bought the paper and Bankers Trust describes the deal
as "comfortably oversubscribed", reporting mainly new demand rather than a
switching out of other bonds. To ensure strong market-making throughout the life
of the bond SBC Warburg, which advised Gateway on the sale of Wellworths to
Fitzwilton in 1992 and so knew the company, was brought in as joint lead.

<P> More deals may follow. Until now UK mid-size companies seeking to lengthen
their debt profile beyond bank loan tenors had to use either 25-year mortgage
debentures or tap the US private placement market and find a swap. Suitable
market capitalization for an issuer in search of 10-year non-amortizing sterling
at under 10% is between &#163;150 million and &#163;1.5 billion. It should have
stable cashflows and a need for long-term capital either for acquisitions,
expansion or to match long-term assets.

<P> For those considering an unsecured deal like that by Independent Newspapers,
the whole process from mandate to launch can be carried out in five weeks. MB

<H3> Right time for the markka </H3> 

<P> When Vattenfall, the Swedish utility group, bought H&auml;meen S&auml;hk&ouml;, a Finnish electricity distribution
company, at the end of December 1995, it knew that it might need to raise some
Finnish markka debt to finance the upgrading of the new subsidiary's network.
Initial funding was provided via Vattenfall's commercial paper programme, but the
company's treasurer Anne Ahlberg realized that this would not be cost-effective
over the longer term. A local currency bond issue was the only sensible solution.

<P> This posed problems, however. First, the number of investors interested in
buying Finnish markka paper was (and still is) very small, comprising a few
Nordic insurance companies and a select number of Benelux retail investors
looking for well-rated high-yield paper. And with Finnish Eurobonds yielding less
than Danish krone or Swedish krona paper, it was going to be particularly hard to
attract retail investors from continental Europe.

<P> Demand for corporate bonds was particularly low. Between 1987 and 1995 there
were only 14 corporate issues denominated in Finnish markka. Most of these were
local issues by companies such as Outokumpu or Repola.

<P> Despite the obvious difficulties, Ahlberg and her chief dealer Peter Grundin
decided to press ahead. Together with the company's bankers, they monitored
Finnish bond yields closely throughout the early months of the year. "We wanted
to make sure that the deal would match our aggressive funding target," remembers
Ahlberg.

<P> By July, investor confidence in the Finnish market was rising as it began to
look increasingly likely that Finland would be one of the first countries to sign
up for European monetary union. Spreads between the Finnish government bonds and
double-A rated bonds began to tighten. Crucially, there was also an ABB Fmk300
million ($73.7 million) bond due for redemption on the June 28.

<P> Figuring that investors in the ABB bond would be keen to reinvest the capital
in another similarly rated Finnish markka issue, Vattenfall decided to launch the
bond at the beginning of July. To ensure sufficient demand for the issue, the
company split the deal into three parts. The first two tranches, off its $1
billion MTN programme, were a Fmk 100 million five-year deal offering 6.44%, and
a Fmk 400 million five-year public deal offering 6.375%. The paper was sold to a
mixture of Nordic institutions and continental retail investors. A final Fmk 200
million tranche was launched in the private placement market. CO






<P> 
<H3> Lira the lure for Latin telcos </H3> 

<P> Latin American telecommunications companies were among the first corporates from the region to return to the
international debt markets after the Mexican peso crisis at the end of 1994. In
June 1995 Telecom Argentina led the way with a L150 billion ($90 million)
two-year deal off its EuroMTN programme and followed it with a L300 billion issue
in November.

<P> This three-year deal was increased from an initial L150 billion and then
again from L250 billion and achieved a lower spread than the smaller,
shorter-dated deal five months earlier: 340 basis points over lira Libor,
compared with 400bp.

<P> The attractive funding costs available in the lira markets were in stark
contrast to those available in the Yankee market at the same time. Just a week
before the second lira deal Telecom had issued a debut seven-year Yankee with a
four-year put. The deal was priced to the put at a spread of 625bp over
Treasuries.

<P> Says director of finance and treasury operations Mario Gonzales: "After the
Yankee we wanted short-term financing with a favourable cost. We also considered
a syndicated loan but the lira deal offered lower cost and quicker execution, as
we had an MTN programme in place."

<P> Adds a source at JP Morgan, which led both the Yankee and second lira deal:
"It was only two-year money, but it was two years at a very attractive rate when
you consider the swap level. On a swap basis the financing was more attractive
than the dollar deal."

<P> Telecom de Argentina is well connected in Italy, as Stet is a member of the
holding company, Nortel Inversora, which owns 60% of Telecom de Argentina.

<P> At the beginning of the year interest rates were still low and were expected
to fall further, and lira market investors were increasingly receptive to
emerging-market issuers. Accordingly, the Brazilian state-owned telecom Telebras
followed Telecom de Argentina to the Italian lira debt market &#173; twice.

<P> In mid-January Telebras, which does not have the same Italian connections as
its Argentinean counterpart, launched a three-year L350 billion bond paying 13%
and it sold so well that it was increased by L150 billion four weeks later. The
spread at re-offer was 345bp over lira Libor.

<P> Says Mark Hall, vice-president, Latin American debt capital markets at JP
Morgan, which led the issue with BCI: "The market was demanding size and it was a
question of the maximum allowable by the Bank of Italy."

<P> Later in the year Mexican state oil company Pemex was tempted to join the
rush to the Eurolira market but its deal was less successful than those from the
telecoms companies. JA &amp; MB

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.10.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-18</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-105</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.10.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120453 text/html 5734
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:03:58 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 12:51:33 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5489
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: October 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.10.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<P>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.10.1.html">



<b> Eurobond market: Beyond the Eurodollar </b></a><br><font size=3>  

<P> The opportunities for issuing in other denominations are growing. Corporates that can
take advantage of swap arbitrage or need local currency financing should exploit
their rarity value and achieve a lower cost of funds. 
<BR><i>Charles Olivier</i><BR><br>

</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers</b><BR>
<b> News &amp; views </b>

<BR> * New vehicle eases utilities' bond issuance

<BR> * Kabelmedia beats Daimler to a Yankee.

<BR> * Live FX trading on the Internet.

<BR> * Bank of Boston cross-border Connector.

<BR> * Know your computer assets.

<P>

<b> Forecasting 
 Emu repercussions </b>

<BR> A JP Morgan report finds that it is the peripheral and non-Emu currencies
&#173; such as the dollar &#173; that would be destabilized if monetary union is
put in jeopardy.
<BR> <i>Jeremy Adams</i>

<P>

<b>M&amp;A monitor</b> 
<BR>
<b>Deals &amp; developments </b> 
<BR> Diary of the month's most significant corporate bids and
buys.

<P>
 
 <b>Cash management</b> 
<BR>
 <b>Quality control </b> 
 <BR> Is certification to
standard ISO 9001 any guarantee of good service? 
<BR><i>Anne Quer&eacute;e</i>

<P>
 
 <b>Repo</b> 
<BR>
 <b>Low-risk investment </b> 
 <BR>Why taking double-B collateral in a repurchase agreement is safer than depositing
your money at a double-A bank.
<BR><i> Benjamin Ensor</i>

<P>

 <b>Equity</b> 
<BR> 
<b> A better share strategy</b> 
 <BR> Latest innovations in the use of equity and equity-linked securities.
<BR><i> Matthew Ball</i>
<P>
 
 <b>Gold finance </b> 
<BR>
<b> The $5 billion problem</b>
<BR> How gold mining companies raise finance for development, exploration
and acquisition.<BR><i> Mark Keatley</i>

<p> 

<b>Germany </b> 
<BR>
<b>Whose mandate?</b> 
Their funding sources are becoming more international, yet German corporates stay
loyal to the home banks.<BR><i> Jeremy Adams</i>

<p> 


<b> M&amp;A prospects </b> 
<BR>Mid-sized family-owned Spanish firms are feeling the need for foreign
involvement.
<BR><i> Charles Olivier</i>

<p>
 
<b>Balance sheet</b> 
<BR>
 <b>Leveraged recaps</b> 
 <BR> What is a leveraged recapitalization and how can it help private
companies? 
<BR><i> Richard Witmer &amp; John Molner</i>

<p> 

<b>Supplements with this issue:</b>
<BR>
Foreign Exchange Yearbook 1996-97
<BR>
Global M&amp;A Worldwide Guide to Advisory
Services 1996-97

<BR><BR>

<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-19</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B046-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1o.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122902 text/html 17440
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:28:06 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:26:41 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 17229
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Regional currency areas</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Asia - Trading</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
128</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
79</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
53</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Asia - Research</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
134</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
64</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
61</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
36</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Latin America - Trading</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
93</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Boston</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Banamex</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ING Bank</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Latin America - Research</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
109</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Boston</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Eastern Europe - Trading</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
76</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
39</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Commerzbank</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bayerische Vereinsbank</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
ING Bank</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Eastern Europe - Research</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
87</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bayerische Vereinsbank</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 EMS currencies - Trading</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
75</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
64</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
63</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
53</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 EMS currencies - Research</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
101</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
60</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-20</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-42</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1i.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122550 text/html 6517
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:24:57 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:28:35 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6307
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>



<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Influences on choice of bank</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Criterion</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Relationship</TD>
<TD>
137</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Price</TD>
<TD>
125</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Quote speed</TD>
<TD>
108</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Strategy advice</TD>
<TD>
74</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Credit rating</TD>
<TD>
70</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Back-office/settlement speed</TD>
<TD>
68</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Research</TD>
<TD>
60</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Specific currency expertise</TD>
<TD>
59</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Liquidity</TD>
<TD>
56</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
<TD>
Trade recommendations</TD>
<TD>
48</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
11</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
<TD>
Risk management</TD>
<TD>
47</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
12</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
Currency breadth</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
13</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
<TD>
Systems technology/</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
confirmation accuracy</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
14=</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
<TD>
Innovation</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
14=</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
Responsible &amp; continual </TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
appraisal of strategy risks</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
16</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
<TD>
Product breadth</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
17=</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
<TD>
Capital raising</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
17=</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
<TD>
Out of hours/night desk</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
19</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
<TD>
Bonds</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
20</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
<TD>
Custody</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
21</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
<TD>
Equities</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
22</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Project finance</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
22</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
<TD>
Tax advice</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
22</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Trade finance</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-21</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-127</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1d.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122336 text/html 4431
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:22:36 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4221
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p><Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Top banks ranked by frequency of top three placings*</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
1995</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
128</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
125</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
91</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
60</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
55</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
54</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
54</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Union Bank of Switzerland</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Swiss Bank Corporation</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>


<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-22</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B040-283</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.03.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174423 text/html 46256
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:43:20 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:14:07 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 46023
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: March 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: March 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
March 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H2>Taking the lid off convertibles </H2>
<H4>They may be more difficult to value than vanilla securities, but convertibles
reward those willing to make the effort to analyze them. By Benjamin Ensor.
</H4>
Jean-Paul Nedelec is a senior vice-president at Oaktree Capital Management
in New York, which has about $1 billion invested in the convertible markets.
He thinks the attractions of convertibles are fairly simple. &quot;Convertibles
give you exposure to both the debt and equity markets. If one outperforms
the other you are a relative winner.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Nedelec is an exception. Most investors listen politely to salesmen like
Reto Moser, head of the convertible trading desk at CS First Boston in London,
before ignoring his arguments. Moser's view is that &quot;people are missing
out by not investing in convertibles.&quot; He admits though that &quot;there
are only a few dedicated accounts that have realized that it is absolutely
worthwhile to invest in convertibles.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Too complex?</B> <BR>
<BR>
The main excuse investors give for not buying convertibles is complexity.
As Raphael Ramseyer, director of global convertible bond trading at Merrill
Lynch in London, says: &quot;Convertible bonds are a hybrid instrument:
part bond, part equity. A lot of people are unfamiliar with the product.&quot;
Another banker puts it more frankly. &quot;Investors can't be bothered to
do the sort of analysis required.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A second problem is that convertibles fall between two stools. &quot;This
is a market that is overlooked,&quot; says Oaktree's Nedelec. &quot;It doesn't
fall into one category or another. Convertibles are not bonds and they are
not equities. They are something in between. Most fixed-income and equity
investors don't look at the other market. As convertible investors we have
to look at both markets.&quot; More investors should make the effort. <BR>
<BR>
Although there are exceptions, convertible bonds, like straight bonds, have
a coupon and are redeemed at maturity. The value of a convertible as a bond
is known as the investment value, or the bond floor. Unlike straight bonds,
convertibles can be converted into a fixed number of ordinary shares at
the option of the holder. The market value of the shares into which the
bond can be converted (known as the conversion value) will be less than
the value of the bond at issuance. The difference between the conversion
value and the market price is known as the conversion premium. Provided
that the share price rises, the conversion value will rise above the face
value of the bond, eventually making the bond worth converting. <BR>
<BR>
Gerhard Kratochwil, managing director of institutional convertible sales
at Merrill Lynch in London, explains that &quot;the characteristics of a
convertible are sometimes similar to those of a bond and an option: if the
stock goes up the investor's participation in the equity price increases,
while if it goes down, the investor's participation in the equity price
decreases.&quot; This cannot be exactly mimicked by combining a bond and
a call option and in any case this would be a more expensive strategy. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Attractive risk/return</B> <BR>
<BR>
So convertibles give investors exposure to the underlying equity while limiting
the potential loss if the stock should fall. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The place where convertibles really shine is providing the investor
with downside protection,&quot; says Abraham Ofer, senior vice-president
at Oaktree. He cites the convertible of Mexican cement company Cemex (4.25%
coupon, due 1997) as an example. &quot;After the Mexican government devalued
the peso in December 1994, the Mexican financial markets suffered dramatic
declines, in dollar and peso-denominated terms. In those circumstances,
the convertible performed much better than the underlying equity. As soon
as investors became persuaded that Cemex was creditworthy, the downside
on the convertible bond was defined by the credit spread at which people
were willing to lend to Cemex. Since you are talking about short-maturity
paper and Cemex is considered one of the most creditworthy companies in
Mexico, it was one of the first to rebound and has done really well.&quot;
The convertibles also did well because they were dollar denominated, so
they did not suffer as much from the falling Mexican peso as the underlying
shares. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Outperforming the equity</B> <BR>
<BR>
Convertibles also give investors a chance to outperform the underlying equity
in many situations. Many equity investors remain reluctant to buy convertibles
because of the general, long-term expectation that stocks will rise. &quot;Given
that convertibles are less risky than the underlying equities, you can't
expect them to outperform the underlying equities,&quot; says Guy Cameron,
Edinburgh-based fund manager of the Baillie Gifford Convertible &amp; General
Unit Trust. <BR>
<BR>
But it is not that simple. The equity return is not the only factor that
determines the return on a convertible. So, if a company decreases its dividend,
the yield advantage of a convertible will increase and consequently its
price will rise. A convertible could also outperform the underlying equity
in a falling interest-rate environment, because the investment value (or
bond floor) of the convertible would rise. That is what happened in France
last year. The convertible bond market outperformed the CAC40 index by over
10%. The total return on the 29 largest French domestic and Euro-convertibles
was 13.1% in local currency terms, compared with just 2.3% for the CAC40
index of 40 of the largest stocks on the Paris Bourse . <BR>
<BR>
The convertibles did well because the French government bond market performed
strongly, moving the convertible market with it. But they also did well
because many of the bigger French convertibles are out of the money, which
makes them more sensitive to interest rates. <BR>
<BR>
There are other situations in which a convertible could outperform equity,
because of the convertible's cumulative yield advantage, such as a flat
equity market in a stable interest-rate environment. The value of a convertible
is also likely to increase if the volatility of the underlying stock increases,
because the downside protection inherent in a convertible will assume greater
importance. Convertibles will also outperform if they are undervalued relative
to the theoretical value. <BR>
<BR>
A more important consideration is that return alone is an unsatisfactory
measure of a convertible bond's value. Because of the fixed-income component
of a convertible, convertibles tend to have lower volatility than the underlying
stocks, so the risk-adjusted return on a convertible may well be better
than that on the underlying stock. <BR>
<BR>
So, if you estimate the rise in price of a specific stock and compare the
performance of the equity and the convertible in that circumstance alone,
the equity will indeed perform better. But the calculation of return should
be made on the basis of all the potential outcomes, weighted by probability,
not on the most probable outcome alone. If you look at the probability that
the share price in question will fall, which is say 25%, the expected return
from the convertible will look much better than that from the share. Look
at the probability that the share price will remain the same and again the
convertible outperforms because of its yield advantage. The downside protection
of the convertible is such that the risk-adjusted &shyp; probability-weighted
&shyp; return of the convertible may well be better than that of the equity.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Convertible strategies</B> <BR>
<BR>
Investors in convertibles fall into four broad categories: fixed-income
investors, equity investors, true convertible investors and hedge funds.
Each of these groups has a different perspective and will tend to focus
on different aspects of convertibles. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;An equity investor will only look at convertibles if he wants the
stock,&quot; explains Simon McGuire, director responsible for equity-linked
new issue business at SBC Warburg in London. Equity investors look at what
is known as the break-even. Because the convertible has a higher income
than the equity, the investor will have to pay a premium to buy the convertible.
&quot;Break even is the time it takes to get the premium back, which is
generally two to five years.&quot; An equity investor is only likely to
invest in a convertible if it gets a good break-even. <BR>
<BR>
For the equity investor, a convertible usually represents a yield advantage
over the ordinary equity as well as a lower risk profile and downside protection.
&quot;Essentially, when you buy a convertible you are paying a premium for
the underlying equity,&quot; says Baillie Gifford's Cameron. &quot;The premium
you are prepared to pay depends on the value you place on the extra income
into the future. You are taking a view on the value of the extra income.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Baillie Gifford's style is stock picking. &quot;We see convertibles as equity
derivatives. We won't buy a convertible unless we like the underlying equity.
Convertibles have a number of good features, such as greater security. Buying
a convertible puts you in a more secure position, avoiding the risks of
the equity.&quot; An example was the convertible of UK chemical company
Evode. &quot;It had a strong underlying business, but had issued lots of
debt to finance an acquisition. The company had a sound business, but the
balance sheet had been shot to ribbons,&quot; says Cameron. By buying the
convertible, Baillie Gifford gained downside protection with the opportunity
of an equity kicker. The company also had a private placement of preference
share outstanding, to which the convertible was senior. &quot;The convertible
was yielding 15% before the company was eventually acquired by [UK chemical
company] LaPorte.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Richard Russell is president of Ariston Capital Management, based outside
Seattle, which manages the Lexington Convertible Securities Fund, one of
the best-performing US convertible funds over the last five years. &quot;We
are growth equity managers that are cowards,&quot; says Russell. &quot;We
are looking for deals that have a great deal of the upside potential of
common stock but are still convertible issues, so we are looking for very
small conversion premiums.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Usually Ariston has quite an aggressive strategy, seeking companies with
good growth potential and convertibles that will outperform the equity.
&quot;It is not unusual to find a convertible that outperforms the stock,&quot;
says Russell. &quot;What you do is find a convertible that has no conversion
premium, in other words it is selling at a price that equals its value in
the underlying common stock. Then almost invariably you are going to have
a higher yield of some sort with the income on the bond versus a common
stock that has a very low dividend or, if it is a growth stock, no dividend
at all. In those circumstances you are almost guaranteed to outperform the
common stock.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
An example of this is the Raymond Corp. convertible bond (6.5%, due 2003)
which the fund bought in December 1995. &quot;We bought them at a price
that had a premium which equalled six months worth of coupon advantage over
the common stock, so by holding them longer than six months we will automatically
outperform the common stock,&quot; says Russell. <BR>
<BR>
Raymond is a small US company that specializes in electronic narrow-aisle
fork-lift trucks. &quot;It has done very well because of the proliferation
of large discount retailers that require a non-polluting fork-lift to move
merchandise in the store or have warehouses that do not have big wide aisles,&quot;
explains Russell. <BR>
<BR>
This strategy has its risks. The fund buys convertibles with a low conversion
premium, but a high premium over the bond value. &quot;It is not unusual
for us to have a bond that is trading at 140% of par and has a 2% conversion
premium. A disaster can happen if the underlying common stock falls, because
the bond will go down as well, albeit not as badly. We would then have about
60% to 70% of the downside of that, whereas a typical convertible selling
at par with a decent credit rating may only have 50% of the downside. So
that is one of the risks with our style of investing. But the market has
been kind to us in the last year.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In the last six months the fund has adopted a more defensive strategy, based
on Russell's view of the maturing bull market in US equities. &quot;There
is a fair amount of speculation in some areas of the market, yet our analysis
shows that it still has further to go. So, given those two viewpoints, we
want participation but we do not want to be as aggressive as we may otherwise
be in another part of the market cycle.&quot; That means the fund has begun
to buy issues with higher premiums and higher credit quality. &quot;We still
get some of the upside, but proportionately less than we have had with other
issues,&quot; says Russell. <BR>
<BR>
Then there are the dedicated convertible investors, such as the BZW Convertible
Fund, managed by Dan Nathanson, which invests primarily in the UK market.
Dedicated convertible investors such as Nathanson see convertibles as a
separate asset class. &quot;The convertible investor wants a low conversion
premium and a high yield, but you can't have both, so you have to trade
one off against the other,&quot; says Nathanson. &quot;You have to look
at the underlying ordinary as that will determine the long-term performance
of the convertible. You also have to watch interest rates. Falling interest
rates affect bond valuations, driving up convertibles.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Another dedicated convertible manager is Oaktree Capital Management. &quot;We
think the international convertible marketplace is rather inefficient and
presents an attractive investment opportunity,&quot; says Ofer. Oaktree's
style is to try to take advantage of inefficiencies in the market, while
focusing on the downside protection. &quot;One of the first things we do
is look at the fixed-income value of a particular convertible,&quot; says
Ofer. &quot;What would the piece of paper be worth as a straight bond? We
try to get a favourable balance between downside protection and participation
in the upward movement of the underlying equity by buying a convertible
that is trading at not much more than 15% from its bond floor with a modest
conversion premium and good call protection.&quot; Oaktree does not use
option pricing models directly. &quot;Our philosophy is to focus on downside
protection,&quot; says Nedelec. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There are some bonds which we consider cheap that would not be considered
cheap or interesting by the hedge fund community,&quot; says Ofer. One of
the deals Oaktree has liked recently was the convertible bond issued in
February by Hong Kong property company Sino Land, lead managed by Jardine
Fleming. The bond has a coupon of 5%, a five-year maturity and a premium
put, which means that the bond will redeem at a price greater than par.
&quot;You can calculate what the downside is based on what the company has
to pay for its straight debt,&quot; says Ofer. The convertible has a spread
of 125 basis points over 5-year treasuries. &quot;Sino Land as a credit
would have to pay 250bp above treasuries. So that gave the convertible a
straight bond value of 95[% of par value], a downside of 5%. The conversion
premium was only about 12% or 13% when the deal was done, which allows us
to participate in about 80% of the stock's upside movement. This is a very
favourable combination of downside protection and upside participation.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The next group of investors are the fixed-income investors. In return for
giving up a little yield, the fixed-income investor can invest in an instrument
that offers exposure to equity returns, which is particularly attractive
to fixed-income investors forbidden from investing in equity. <BR>
<BR>
Bond investors will only buy from companies that they would buy a bond from.
&quot;The equity investor may buy from a company whose balance sheet is
not particularly strong, but where the equity research story is positive.
In contrast, a fixed-income investor may buy from a company where the equity
research story is not so positive, but the credit quality is excellent,&quot;
says SBC Warburg's McGuire. &quot;On the other hand, fixed-income investors
will invest in something that no equity player will buy. Mitsubishi Bank
raised $2 billion because it has a double-A rating. For the fixed-income
investor it is a question of how much yield is given up.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Fixed-income investors will also look at the seniority of an issue. Generally,
debt is senior to convertible debt, which is senior to preferred stock which
in turn is senior to the ordinary equity. If a company has several convertibles
outstanding, the seniority of a security in the event of the company being
wound up is important to the investor. If a company issues just one convertible,
its exact type matters little: it will be junior to the company's bonds
and senior to its equity. &quot;We look at the seniority of a convertible
in a wind-up situation,&quot; says BZW Investment Management's Nathanson,
&quot;but we used to place more importance on it than we do now, because
if a company is in serious trouble seniority often doesn't make an awful
lot of difference.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The final group of convertible investors are the hedge funds, which do use
option pricing to get the theoretical values of convertibles and arbitrage
the anomalies. One of them is the Intermarket fund, which is managed by
BAII Asset Management, the London-based subsidiary of Banque Arabe Internationale
d'Investissement. <BR>
<BR>
BAII started investing in convertibles in 1982 to improve the performance
of its fixed-income funds. It now manages total assets of $550 million in
long convertibles and $250 million in convertible arbitrage. BAII has a
five-year database of price history for convertibles and warrants. One of
the most compelling arguments for investing in convertibles is that hedge
funds and the proprietary trading desks of the investment banks find it
worthwhile to arbitrage. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;If investing in convertibles was common, you wouldn't be able to arbitrage
profitably,&quot; says Gustaf Bradshaw, director of research at BAII. There
are plenty of pricing anomalies in the convertible markets, partly because
they are poorly researched and there are relatively few players. But Bradshaw
says the situation is changing as people get better at option pricing. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Choose the right structure</B> <BR>
<BR>
It is important for investors to choose convertibles whose terms and structure
match their own investment style. All convertible issues are a trade-off
between conversion premium and coupon. Equity-oriented investors should
look for a higher coupon and higher current income. A lower coupon (and
therefore a higher yield to maturity and bond value) appeals more to fixed-income
investors sensitive to the bond value and defensive characteristics of a
convertible. However, minimum yield requirements will dictate the extent
to which very low coupons are acceptable. <BR>
<BR>
Deep-discount (and zero-coupon) convertibles appeal less to equity investors
because they have longer duration and thus greater sensitivity to interest
rates. An equity-oriented investor should look for a low conversion premium
since he wants to own the equity cheaply. A bond investor will want the
extra yield and higher bond value that come with a higher conversion premium.
<BR>
<BR>
Take the $750 million deep-discount convertible bond (2% coupon, due 2002)
issued by Swiss pharmaceutical company Sandoz in September 1995, lead managed
by CS First Boston. Sandoz's objectives were to achieve a broad distribution,
get a high issue price for its equity and sell it to investors that would
retain the equity on conversion. To try to fulfil these objectives Sandoz
adjusted the coupon, yield to maturity and conversion premium to find the
optimal combination. The company chose a 2% coupon which provided the lowest
current cost of financing for the company (assuming that the bonds eventually
convert) and the highest ultimate price for the Sandoz shares. Because the
structure is deep-discount, the accrued interest makes up a significant
part of the yield to maturity. This interest is foregone by investors that
choose to convert. But the longer investors wait to convert, the higher
the share price has to rise to make conversion worthwhile. <BR>
<BR>
Certain instruments have been tailored specifically to appeal to particular
investor types. &quot;Some convertibles have been created particularly to
appeal to investors that have certain restrictions,&quot; says Merrill's
Kratochwil. For instance, many US equity income funds are not allowed to
buy equities with a low dividend. That used to prevent them from investing
in high-growth companies, such as Microsoft or US credit card company First
USA, that have low dividends or no dividends at all. &quot;Convertible preferreds
gave investors an exposure into the same stock with a higher yield, so suddenly
equity income funds could buy high-growth companies,&quot; says Kratochwil.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Study terms</B> <BR>
<BR>
Because of the many different types of convertible, investors need to study
the terms of a convertible carefully. Some convertibles issued by one company
are convertible into the stock of another (usually because the issuer wishes
to divest itself of a holding). An example is the zero-coupon convertible
issued by US media company Time Warner that is convertible into toy maker
Hasbro. <BR>
<BR>
Some convertibles, particularly mandatory convertibles, have what are known
as resets (or re-fixes) of the strike or exercise price. Explains Merrill's
Ramseyer: &quot;There are certain points during the life of the security
where if the stock price has dropped since issuance, the number of shares
the convertible converts into is increased, which gives a certain downside
protection. The reset can be in either direction. There are Japanese convertibles,
such as Mitsubishi Bank, where a reset only happens if the stock drops.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Convertible investors also need to be aware of interest forfeiture, otherwise
known as a screw clause. Interest forfeiture happens when an issuer has
the right to terminate the conversion privilege after having called the
bonds for redemption to force conversion. Assuming that the convertible
is in the money, the issuer can force the investor to forfeit the final
coupon payment by ending the conversion privilege before the coupon date.
The investor then has to convert before receiving the interest payment,
or lose the convertible's premium over the redemption price. An example
of this is the Hanson 9.5%, due 2006. <BR>
<BR>
Investors should also watch out for puts especially when the issuer is not
highly rated. UK advertising company Saatchi &amp; Saatchi decided to issue
15-year convertible preference shares in 1988. Its share price had fallen,
so the company was unwilling to issue new equity. Straight debt would also
have been costly for a company with few tangible assets. So the company
issued convertible preference shares, which had a coupon of 6.75%, compared
with a Treasury yield of 10%. To reduce the coupon the company gave the
investors the right to put the shares back to the company for 120% of face
value after five years. <BR>
<BR>
But the put was nearly fatal. Given the likelihood that investors would
put the preferred shares if the underlying failed to recover, another way
of looking at the debt was as five-year deep-discounted debt with a yield
of 10% and an equity kicker. In the event the company could not honour the
put and had to renegotiate the debt. Investors in the convertible were left
with equity, whether they wanted it or not. Given its subsequent performance
most would have preferred the downside protection of a bond. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Check the issuer</B> <BR>
<BR>
Investors do need to be careful about why a company is issuing a convertible.
Because convertibles are a flexible capital-raising instrument, they are
used both by blue chip companies seeking, for instance, to tap a particular
investor base and by companies in poor financial health which exploit the
complexity of convertibles to raise capital when straight debt or equity
issuance is impossible at a reasonable price. Although convertibles have
been issued by some of the best known European blue chips, such as Aegon,
Hanson, Allied Domecq, Axa, Peugeot, Michelin and Roche, they have also
been used by plenty of companies with sub-investment grade ratings. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There tend not to be an awful lot of good strong companies issuing
convertibles,&quot; says BZW Investment Management's Nathanson. &quot;Companies
issue because they can't issue straight debt on good terms, so the companies
that issue convertibles tend to have poor balance sheets.&quot; So convertible
issues are overweight cyclical companies, such as construction, property
and media companies. &quot;There are few solid earners, such as pharmaceutical
or tobacco companies, or commercial banks,&quot; says Nathanson. True diversification
is therefore difficult with convertibles. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The investor has to like the company and the reason why it is raising
money,&quot; says Lorraine Gringer, international convertible bond analyst
at Merrill Lynch. &quot;If the company is over-stretched and should be focusing
on its core product, yet is saying that it <BR>
is issuing a convertible to expand further, it may have a negative effect
on investors' appetites.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Secondary market ploys</B> <BR>
<BR>
The different types of convertible form a complete spectrum from debt to
equity. Convertibles range from the bond-like zero-coupon convertibles,
such as liquid yield option notes (Lyons), through deep-discount convertible
bonds, traditional (vanilla) convertible bonds, bonds with warrants and
mandatory convertibles to convertible preferred stocks, which are clearly
equity. <BR>
<BR>
Depending on the subsequent performance of interest rates and the underlying
equity, individual convertibles tend to migrate to one or other end of the
spectrum. Convertibles in the secondary market can be put into three broad
groups: an equity substitute, a hybrid or balanced convertible and a bond
substitute. An equity substitute is a convertible with a small conversion
premium. It will have a small yield and be much more sensitive to changes
in the underlying stock price than to changes in interest rates. <BR>
<BR>
A fixed-income alternative convertible is also known as a busted convertible,
because it is so far out of the money that it trades like a straight bond
with a low coupon. It will have a relatively high yield and be much less
sensitive to changes in the underlying equity. A balanced, or hybrid, convertible
is one with a moderate conversion premium and a moderate yield, which will
behave as a hybrid security, reacting to changes in both interest rates
and the price of the underlying stock. Balanced convertibles typically carry
a premium of 15%-45%. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;From the investor's perspective, convertibles range from a bond to
a pure equity or option,&quot; says Merrill's Kratochwil. &quot;Wherever
somebody has a particular expertise, they will try to use that to extract
value from convertible bonds. That should lead to a natural arbitrage in
convertible bonds, because whenever a bond changes from one characteristic
to another a different group of people should come in and recognize the
value.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
During late 1993 and the beginning of 1994, a number of Asian companies
issued convertibles which were bought in quantity by emerging market equity
investors. When sentiment toward the emerging markets changed during 1994,
some of the investors dumped the bonds, as you might dump an equity position,
but without reference to the bond value of the convertible. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;These things were dumped irrationally and in many cases were sold
significantly below their value just as straight fixed-income instruments,&quot;
says Ofer. Such behaviour creates opportunities for other investors. <BR>
<BR>
For instance, by January 1995, New World Development, a Hong Kong blue chip
which is a component of the Hang Seng index, was trading at 400-425 basis
points over treasuries according to Ofer, &quot;a wide spread for a triple-B
credit&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Illiquidity problems</B> <BR>
<BR>
Issues that have migrated to one end or other of the spectrum tend to become
illiquid. &quot;Generally convertibles have a much shorter average life
span than the maturity date,&quot; says Kratochwil. Although companies strive
to place issues in the hands of long-term investors, if successful that
will often make the issue less liquid. Hedge funds tend to buy and sell
much more actively. Sleeping investors, which forget to convert when the
negative yield advantage of the convertible exceeds the value of the downside
protection, are not uncommon. <BR>
<BR>
Not surprisingly, illiquidity is a particular problem in smaller issues
by mid-cap companies. &quot;The price spread can be enormous &shyp; as much
as 10% &shyp; particularly if the company is in trouble,&quot; says BZW's
Nathanson. &quot;The market makers don't want to have the convertibles on
their books, so they quote a very wide spread. The liquidity then becomes
very poor.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Liquidity issues are much the same as in the equity markets. In the Euro-convertible
market, says Oaktree's Nedelec, &quot;some issues are much more liquid than
others, depending on the company, the country of issue, the lead manager
and the issue type&quot;. A typical bid-offer spread in the Euro-convertible
market is a point (1%). &quot;On the Mitsubishi deal the spread is probably
25bp,&quot; says Ofer. <BR>
<BR>
Illiquidity can be a problem for the convertible markets, which are always
likely to be small in comparison with the equity markets. &quot;The convertible
markets really need more than one type of player,&quot; says Bradshaw of
BAII Asset Management. &quot;When there are just arbitrage players in the
market they all have the same view and liquidity dries up. I want to see
other views in the market. Equity investors that don't see a particular
equity in black or white need to be aware of the other opportunities. Many
straight equity investors are reluctant to invest in convertibles because
they feel they are going head-to-head with professionals. But it is not
a zero-sum game and convertibles are not that complicated.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Bradshaw thinks that more investors will look at the convertible markets
as stock-picking expertise becomes a commodity. &quot;The traditional equity
investor spends most of his time on the fundamental element of a company.
Few worry about how to get the most efficient exposure to that company.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Bradshaw argues that investors need to add the most efficient way of investing
in a company to good fundamental research. &quot;Investors need the edge
of the most efficient instrument to implement their view,&quot; he says.
That instrument may often be a convertible. <HR>
<H2>Valuation </H2>
Despite the dowside protection and the potential for outperformance, many
investors don't buy convertibles because they find them hard to value. &quot;The
fact that convertibles are pretty difficult to value puts off some investors&quot;,
says Oaktree's Nedelec. &quot;I would say most.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The complexity of the convertible markets and the variety of different
instruments available has not helped the marginal investor into the convertible
market,&quot; agrees BAII Asset Management's Bradshaw. <BR>
<BR>
The problem is not just that convertibles incorporate a number of different
components, some of them options, it is also that analysis of these components
in isolation does not produce a correct valuation for the package. <BR>
<BR>
The value of a convertible theoretically cannot be less than the higher
of its investment value (the value of the bond as straight debt) and the
conversion value (or parity value, the value of the convertible bond as
equity). But investors need to use a more sophisticated analysis than a
simple comparison of the yield of the instrument as debt and as equity.
<BR>
<BR>
A simple way to estimate the value of a convertible is to regard a convertible
as a combination of a corporate bond and an equity option. To value an ABC
Corp. convertible bond, investors could compare the ABC Corp. convertible
bond with the prices of the ABC Corp. bond and the ABC Corp. equity option.
Although in practice some convertible investors do use a comparison with
a bond and an option to value the convertible, such valuations are flawed
because the equity option is embedded in the convertible and cannot be stripped
from the bond and traded separately. Vitally, each component of the convertible
affects the value of the other parts. The valuation of the bond element
affects the valuation of the option element, and vice versa. <BR>
<BR>
To value a convertible accurately, the investor needs to treat it as a bond
plus one or more equity-related embedded options. Convertible valuation
differs from simple option pricing in that the effective exercise price
of the convertible changes over time. The effective exercise price at any
time is the present value of the remaining cash flows arising from holding
the bond, essentially the opportunity cost of converting into the shares.
Since the bond ceases to exist if it is converted, the holder surrenders
the right to future coupons and the eventual redemption of the bond. In
the case of deep-discount or zero-coupon convertibles the investor gives
up the accrued interest on the bond. <BR>
<BR>
The fact that the exercise price varies, in addition to the share price,
is just the first thing that makes the option price difficult to calculate.
The valuation of convertibles is further complicated by the number of different
variables. The most obvious are the terms of the bond (the credit rating,
the coupon, and the redemption date), the spot price of the equity and the
conversion ratio (the number of shares into which the bond converts). <BR>
<BR>
But the convertible price will also be affected by a number of other factors.
One is the dividend payments (or expected dividend) on the stock: since
the convertible holder does not receive the dividend, dividends can be seen
as an opportunity cost of holding the convertible rather than the stock
itself. Theoretical pricing also depends on a forecast of share price volatility.
This can be based on either historic volatility, based on the annualized
standard deviation of the share price returns, or, if there is a traded
stock option for the company, the implied volatility for the stock in question.
Convertible issuance can itself affect the price of the underlying shares,
if conversion of the bond results in the creation of new shares, diluting
the value of the existing shares, which is almost always the case. <BR>
<BR>
Pricing also depends on the call and put features of the convertible. Most
convertibles have a call feature and many have an investor put, each of
which represents a different option. The call feature entitles the issuer
to redeem the bond at a pre-arranged price (or schedule of prices). But
because a call soon after issuance would deprive investors of their yield
advantage, downside protection and seniority, most convertibles incorporate
call protection, which increases the value of the bond to the investor.
Hard call protection is when the company undertakes not to call the bond
for a certain period, often three to five years. Soft call protection is
when the company undertakes not to call the bond unless the underlying shares
trade at a certain level above the conversion price for a certain length
of time.Once call protection expires, the issuer has an unconstrained call
option on the bonds. Some convertibles incorporate a put feature, which
entitles the investor to demand redemption of the bond at a certain value
on a given date, which will often be the day after call protection expires.
There may be more than one put. Call protection and investor puts tend to
increase the value of the bond to the investor. <BR>
<BR>
Most convertibles have an American-style option: that is, the investor may
convert at any time of his choosing between the issue date and maturity.
But the issuer may decide to restrict the investor's option to convert the
bond. A European-style option would only allow conversion at redemption,
but this is rare. A delayed option allows the investor to convert at any
time after a specific date. Domestic options allow conversion between a
certain pair (or pairs) of dates every year. The most complicated are structured
options, which restrict conversion to specific dates or periods of the issuer's
choosing. Obviously, restricted conversion will reduce the value of the
bond to the investor. <BR>
<BR>
A final complication is the fact that many convertibles are denominated
in a different currency to the underlying share. Many Euro-convertibles
are denominated in dollars and the dollar-based investor takes a currency
risk. There is also quite likely to be a correlation between the share price
performance and the dollar/domestic currency exchange rate. <BR>
<BR>
Fortunately, there are convertible pricing models which can be used to calculate
the theoretical price of the convertible. For instance, one such model,
produced by London-based Monis Software, is based on a binomial tree pricing
method developed at the London Business School. It assesses the logical
choices that could be made by the issuer and the investor at each stage
in the convertible's life, given the convertible's features. Such option-theory
based analysis can cope with most of the choices, but a few choices do have
to be made by the investor when valuing a convertible, such as whether to
use historic or implied share price volatility. <BR>
<BR>
These models produce a theoretical value for the convertible. Comparison
of the theoretical value with the market price allows the investor to see
whether the convertible is considered cheap relative to its underlying stock
or even the issuer's debt. The theoretical value drives investment by hedge
funds and the proprietary trading desks of banks, which often execute convertible
arbitrage strategies seeking to exploit price anomalies between the convertible
and the underlying stock. But in practice relatively few mainstream investors
use option theory for their investment strategies. For many investors, the
theoretical value serves as a useful check rather than as the principal
means of assessing value. <BR>
<BR>
While investors' complaints about complexity are often unjustified, some
issues have tested even professional traders' pricing models. One example
was the $2 billion 3% 2002 convertible bond issued by Mitsubishi Bank in
October 1995, lead managed by Morgan Stanley, which was one of the biggest
convertible deals ever. The capital raised by the bond has provided enough
funding to increase the bank's total capital ratio from 9% to 11%, if and
when the bonds convert. <BR>
<BR>
Because the primary object of the deal was to raise capital, Morgan Stanley
structured the deal as a mandatory: Mitsubishi has the right to redeem 20%
of the issue in exchange for its American Depositary Receipts in each of
the last five years of the issue's life. Mandatory conversion makes a convertible
much less attractive to investors, so to make the deal more palatable the
convertible included a reset procedure. If Mitsubishi's stock falls, the
conversion ratio is increased to give investors a larger number of shares,
effectively protecting them against a large fall in Mitsubishi's share price.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;The Mitsubishi deal had lots of features in it so that nobody could
price it,&quot; says Mark Wightman of Monis Software. Among the features
were multiple resets, mandatory conversion phased in stages over a five-year
period and, originally, a staggered coupon of 5%-5.5% in the first year
and 3.25%-3.75% thereafter. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There was a wide disparity of bids because of the complexity of the
structure. Many in the market won't buy if they can't price something,&quot;
says Wightman. <BR>
<BR>
Only after the deal was simplified did investors buy into it. Demand was
several times greater than supply. &quot;It has excellent downside protection,&quot;
says Oaktree's Ofer. &quot;Because of the reset procedure, there was effectively
no downside when it was originally issued and it provided the investor with
an excellent opportunity to participate in the upside. It traded to 110
[% of its par value] in very quick order.&quot; BE <bR><BR><BR>
<H2>Calls and puts </H2>
Generally, once the share price has risen to a certain level, the issuer
has the right to call a convertible bond, redeeming the debt at the face
value of the bond. Issuers will typically call a convertible some time soon
after the equity value overtakes the redemption price, which will save the
company from continued coupon payments on the convertible. But, since the
investor retains the right to convert, calling will usually result in conversion
if the stock price is higher than the redemption price. <BR>
<BR>
An issuer call effectively forces investors to convert the bonds into stock
in order not to lose the premium of the convertible over the redemption
price. But the issuer will only call once it is comfortable that the conversion
price will not fall back below the redemption price. As James Peattie, an
international convertibles analyst at Merrill Lynch in London, explains:
&quot;Companies want to make sure conversion happens. After having called
the bond, the issuer does not want to have to raise cash or take money out
of reserves if there is a dramatic downturn in the equity market. There
have been a couple of cases where the company has called a bond and the
equity market has declined so that they actually had to redeem the bond
for cash. This sometimes restrains treasurers from calling an issue at the
first opportunity.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
However, most convertibles embody call protection lasting for the first
few years. Call protection is an undertaking by the issuer not to call the
convertible during the first few years after issuance. Call protection makes
an issue more attractive to investors because it ensures that the income
advantage and downside protection offered by the convertible will be enjoyed
for a definite period of time. This removes some of the unpredictability
of average life that some investors find offputting. <BR>
<BR>
A typical example is the seven-year dollar-denominated convertible bond
issued by Sandoz during 1995. The bond incorporates three-year hard call
protection, followed by two years of soft call protection: the bonds are
callable at the accreted value if Sandoz's share price has exceeded 130%
of the accreted conversion price for at least 30 days. <BR>
<BR>
Some convertibles, such as a Lyon (liquid yield option note), contain a
put: a put gives the holder the right to force early redemption of the convertible
at a pre-determined yield or price at a specified date. BE <BR><p>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="gi.96.03.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-23</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.03.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121240 text/html 6079
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:11:39 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 09:21:00 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5837
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: March 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: March 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue:March 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.03.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.96.03.1.html"><b>The case for convertibles</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Too many investors are put off by convertibles' complexity. With modern
software and help from the banks, valuation is easier and the rewards substantial.
<I>Benjamin Ensor</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>EMERGING BOND MARKETS   </b><br>
Eastern Europe attracts buyers<br>
The bravest emerging market investors bought Latin America after the crash
and now see value in Poland and Russia. What instruments are they buying
and what are the returns?<I>Tim Hyam</I>.

<br><br>  
<b>EUROBONDS</b><br>
  Hazards for the unwary   <br>
Supply demand dynamics and a heavy redemption schedule look as though they
will keep Eurobonds expensive. Illiquidity is also still a problem. For
mainstream investors the best policy is opportunism. <I>Jo Wrighton</I>.
<br><br>  
 
</td>
</tr>





<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="surv"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra13.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>EUROPEAN CUSTODY </b><br>
1996 European Custody Directory   <BR>
<I>In this issue: </I>A comprehensive directory of the domestic European
markets listing custodians and sub-custodians in European countries. <I>James
Featherstone.</I><BR><BR>
<b>EMERGING MARKETS  </b><br>
1996 Emerging Markets Directory<BR>
<I>With this issue:</I> A bound-out reference source for foreign and local
custody banks and broking institutions in the main emerging markets. <I>James
Featherstone.</I> <BR> 
<BR><BR>

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
NatWest's Gartmore purchase worries investors| Who will buy Russian Eurobond?
| East Midlands' covenant complexity| The benefits of outsourcing administration
| Watson joins AMP | US moves to same day settlement
<BR><BR>

<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
Chase wins more mandates | Panmure Gordon favours Bank of Scotland | BAA
chooses Chase | Prolific switches custody arrangements | IN BRIEF 
<br><br> 
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
Adapting models to change <br>
Quantitative forecasting models often fall down when key trends break down.
In these cases the models must use algorithms that enable them to discard
older, irrelevant data and to weight more relevant, more recent information.
<I>Vijay Chopra</I>.
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
Timing the correction<BR>
US and European equity markets, optimistic about the Nikkei and nervous
about bonds. The next three months will be critical.
<br><br> 
<b>ECONOMIC VIEW  </b><br>
Why Japan remains a mess
<br><br> 

</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-24</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B046-72</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1p.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122947 text/html 12492
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:28:30 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:26:25 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12281
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Top banks by centre</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
Respondents were asked: Which banks in these centres receive the largest proportion of the FX business you execute there?</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 New York</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Hypo Bank</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
First Chicago</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Tokyo</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Mitsubishi*</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Morgan Stanley</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo*</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Fuji Bank</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
IBJ</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*Merged banks ranked separately</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 London</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
75</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
72</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
63</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
58</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NationsBank</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Frankfurt</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Dresdner Bank</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
BHF</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Commerzbank</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Singapore</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Hong Kong</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Sydney</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
CBA</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Macquarie</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ANZ</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-25</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-178</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1e.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122414 text/html 5157
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:23:18 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:20 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4947
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p><Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Charting services</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="center" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
CBA</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8=</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8=</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<P>

*This table awards points according to whether an institution is ranked first, second or third in the 				
percentage rankings given in answer to the question: What percentage of your annual FX activity 				
in all currencies do you place with the 10 banks you use most? Banks gain three points for being 				
ranked top by percentage of total turnover (which we use as a proxy for a qualitative judgment 				
that the bank is the respondent's favourite bank - though we recognize that  it could in some cases 				
be dictated less by a preference than by necessity). So, for example, to gain 128 points, Citibank 				
could have been voted third-best bank by 128 of the 189 respondents, or first by 42 of them and 				
second by one, or some mix in between these two extremes. 				

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-26</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-205</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1m.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122804 text/html 4444
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:27:04 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:26:56 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4234
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Multi-option strategies</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
46</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>


<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-27</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-247</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1g.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122509 text/html 4497
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:24:14 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:01 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4287
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>


<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Mkt commentary/analysis</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
122</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
85</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
54</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
51</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
36</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-28</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B040-231</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.04.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174355 text/html 34846
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:42:55 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:14:08 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 34613
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H2>Managing the risk of your global bond portfolio </H2>
<H3>Do you know how much risk your global bond portfolio has relative to
its benchmark? Recent research suggests that some of the traditional measures
used to quantify bond portfolio risk may be inadequate. Kieran Higgins investigates.
</H3>
It ought to be simple to measure and control the market risks of a global
fixed-income portfolio. Whereas the performance of an equity portfolio is
determined by a complex set of variables, the performance of a global bond
portfolio is overwhelmingly determined by just two: interest-rate movements
and currency movements. <BR>
<BR>
But some recent developments in portfolio management theory suggest it is
much harder to measure the market risk exposure of a global bond portfolio
than previously supposed. The difficulties are highlighted in a recent study
by Robert Litterman and Kurt Winkelmann at Goldman Sachs -- Managing Market
Exposure -- which cites two developments that have increased the complexity
of risk management in the past few years: the growth of cross-border bond
portfolios, and the increased use of derivatives. &quot;Both of these activities
have exposed investors to risks with which they have had little previous
experience,&quot; says the report. &quot;Unfortunately, the development
of risk management tools has not kept pace with these investment trends.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>New problems</B> <BR>
<BR>
Take interest-rate risk management. All portfolio managers are now familiar
with duration -- the concept of measuring market exposure according to the
average times of each cashflow of each bond, weighted by the present value
of those cashflows. Indeed, many feel that duration is the only tool they
need to measure and control the the risk exposure of their portfolios. Typically,
a portfolio manager will remain neutral -- most of the time -- to the benchmark
duration that his client has set him. He will take interest rate risk only
by overweighting or underweighting each country in the portfolio relative
to the benchmark. &quot;From our point of view, the interest risk is best
controlled by the client defining the duration he is most happy with, and
then sticking with that duration,&quot; says Gordon Johns, managing director
of Zurich Investment Management. &quot;We will only take duration or interest
rate risk when we have a particularly strong view about whether a market
is cheap or dear, but those occasions occur relatively infrequently.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
A portfolio manager can alter his weighting in a country without changing
the duration of the portfolio as a whole by maintaining a constant weighted
duration. Suppose that your benchmark weighting in the US is 40% with a
five-year duration. Your weighted duration is a factor of your country weighting,
40, and your duration, 5: in numerical terms: 40*5/1000 = 0.2. Therefore,
you can halve your US weighting and maintain the constant duration of your
overall portfolio by increasing your duration in the US to ten years, so
that sum of your weighting, 20, multiplied by your duration,10, still equals
0.2. In this way, you can maintain a neutral duration position in the US
relative to your benchmark. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Duration doesn't work</B> <BR>
<BR>
But there is a problem: duration doesn't capture all the interest-rate risk
to which a global bond portfolio is exposed. <BR>
<BR>
The difficulty is that global bond portfolios behave very differently from
domestic bond portfolios. Their performance and volatility are affected
by the direction of changes in interest rates for each country within the
portfolio. Because volatilities vary both within markets and across markets,
it is impossible to measure the risk exposure of a global bond portfolio
against a single interest-rate factor. Instead, the performance of a global
bond portfolio is a function of a complex set of variables that are difficult
to encompass using a single risk management tool such as duration. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;For those investors that operate in multi-currency markets and that
are taking spread positions -- by going long or short in any given market
-- duration is an inadequate overall risk measure and, moreover, it is irrelevant
for foreign exchange exposure,&quot; says Mohsen Fahmi, head of the leveraged
investments group at Salomon Asset Management. <BR>
<BR>
Consider, for example, two 10-year duration bonds, one an Italian government
bond, and the other a German government bond. In theory, the value of the
two bonds should move by the same amount for a given change in interest
rates. But this theory is often violated in practice. &quot;When yields
move in Italy they move by 20 or 30 basis points,&quot; says Fahmi, &quot;but
in a sleepy market like Germany they may move by only five basis points.
Therefore 10-year duration bonds in Italy are more risky than 10-year duration
bonds in Germany.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Another problem is that yield curves within markets do not always move in
parallel shifts. For a given change in interest rates, the 1, 3, 5, 7, 10
and 15-year maturity bonds within a single market do not all move by the
same amount. &quot;This is the bane of our lives,&quot; says Mark Tapley
at Quorum Capital Management. &quot;We have learnt that you can really suffer
from non-parallel shifts. If, for example, you start buying 30-year zero-coupon
bonds, their performance may be very disappointing compared to the benchmark
10-year coupon bond with the same duration. The long-end may fall by 25
basis points, from 7.25 to 7, whereas the yield on the equivalent duration
10-year bond might fall 75 basis points from 6.75 to 6. The change in the
slope is very important and will dictate at the margin what type of bonds
you are going to buy.&quot; Is it possible to predict non-parallel shifts?
Only if you look at the broader economic factors that effect bond market
performance. For example, the long-end of the German government bond market
has not fallen in line with the short-end recently because investors are
afraid that longer-term bonds will be paid back in Ecus, not the Deutschmark.
<BR>
<BR>
A third problem is known as convexity. Convexity is often confused with
the effects of non-parallel shifts, but it is actually a more predictable
derivative of bond price with respect to yield. Duration indicates how the
price of a bond will change for small changes in yield, but not for larger
changes of yield. This means that for bigger changes in yields, the value
of your portfolio may change more dramatically than you could have anticipated
from its duration. This is the convexity effect, so called because if you
plot yield against price for two bonds with the same duration, you will
find that the radius of these curves varies in size. The bond with the smaller
radius has the higher convexity. <BR>
<BR>
These problems can create unexpected risk when you try to hedge two bonds
with the same duration against each other. Suppose you decide to go long
a 10-year duration bond in the US, and hedge this trade by going short a
10-year duration bond in Japan. In theory this will create a perfect hedge
because the sum of the weighted durations will be zero. But, in practice,
the hedge will be imperfect because yield volatilities in the Japanese and
US markets have a low correlation. This means that the portfolio is exposed
to market risk which is not accounted for by simply summing the respective
durations. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Correlation risk</B> <BR>
<BR>
How can a portfolio manager neutralize the risks caused by different volatilities
in different markets? The answer is to try and quantify both the correlations
between different market returns and the volatility of the securities in
the portfolio. Some portfolio managers have begun to use data-mining to
examine how market returns have historically co-varied. Goldman Sachs, for
example, has calculated volatilities both within and across five bond markets
from February 1988 to March 1995. The data was calculated with a 10% monthly
decay so that it is heavily weighted toward the recent past. As the charts
illustrate, there is little correlation between either yield volatilities
within the five markets, or interest-rate correlations across the five markets.
<BR>
<BR>
Fortunately, the correlation of inter-market volatilities is simplified
by the fact that some countries are closely correlated with each other.
The most obvious correlations are regional blockings. Many investors divide
global bond markets into four blocs: core Europe (countries with Deutschmark
or Deutsch- mark-linked currencies), high-yield Europe (such as Italy and
Spain), the dollar-bloc (including the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand)
and Japan. &quot;There are fundamental economic reasons why these blocs
should move together,&quot; says Mark Tapley at Quorum. &quot;Germany and
Holland are highly-correlated because their currencies are closely-pegged.
People often forget that Holland doesn't have an independent central bank.
It is independent of the Dutch government, but it is not independent of
the Bundesbank.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Currency risk</B> <BR>
<BR>
Global bond portfolios differ in another crucial respect from domestic portfolios:
they are exposed to currency risk. Currency movements are at least as important
in determining how a global bond portfolio will perform as interest-rate
movements. In this respect, a global bond portfolio differs from a global
equity portfolio in which most of the returns come from the securities themselves.
This is because global currencies have historically been more volatile than
global bonds, but less volatile than global equities. The impact of currency
exposure on a global bond portfolio will vary according to the value of
the investor's base currency, but investors say that anything between 50%
and 80% of the returns on a global bond portfolio are caused by currency
movements. &quot;Multi-currency bond portfolios really ought to be seen
as multi-bond currency portfolios because most of the risk and the return
will come from the currency element,&quot; says Michel Gonard, assistant
director at BZW Investment Management (BZWIM). <BR>
<BR>
For an investor, currency risk will largely depend on whether he chooses
a currency hedged or an unhedged benchmark. Currency risk can largely be
eliminated by running the portfolio against a hedged benchmark. In that
case, a global bond portfolio ends up being a substitute for a domestic
bond portfolio, albeit one with slightly lower volatility. On the other
hand, if the portfolio is run against an unhedged benchmark, currency risk
will tend to dominate the returns on that portfolio. <BR>
<BR>
Take, for example, a standard global bond index which has about 40% in dollar
currencies. If you hedge your whole portfolio into dollars you are reducing
your risk in terms of the absolute return-- if you are accounting in dollars
-- and you are eliminating your risk against a hedged benchmark. On the
other hand, you are enormously increasing your risk in terms of outperforming
or underperforming an unhedged benchmark. <BR>
<BR>
Should you choose a hedged or an unhedged benchmark? Gordon Johns at Zurich
Investment Management says that this choice largely depends on two factors:
the currency exposure of your overall investment portfolio, and your tolerance
of risk. &quot;If you look at your total portfolio and you have little currency
exposure, then there can be significant diversification benefits from running
against an unhedged benchmark,&quot; says Johns. &quot;So currency exposure
can not only add value but it can also diversify away some of the risk.
But if you have too much currency exposure, the risk dominates. In that
case, a hedged benchmark may well be appropriate for a risk-averse investor.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
There are at least three good arguments for hedging your currency exposure.
First, fixed-income managers have historically been better at picking the
best-performing markets than the best-performing currencies. So why not
let bond portfolio managers do what they are good at -- managing bonds --
and hedge the currency risk away. If you want to take additional currency
risk, you could employ a separate currency overlay manager. Interestingly,
equity investors are much better customers of currency overlay managers
than bond investors. One possible reason for this is that currency hedging
is seen as an integral part of the fixed-income investment process; in an
equity portfolio, currency hedging and stock selection are seen as very
different processes. <BR>
<BR>
Second, there is little correlation between currency risk and interest-rate
risk. For example, a 5% long position in Japanese yen carries approximately
twice the risk of a 5% overweighting in the Japanese bond market because
the yen is so much more volatile than Japanese bonds. &quot;Because there
is little correlation between interest-rate and currency risk, you effectively
end up doubling your risk,&quot; says Mark Tapley at Quorum. <BR>
<BR>
In many ways, this observation is counter-intuitive. According to the theory
of Purchasing Power Parity, currency movements are a function of interest
rates in different countries. It follows that currency movements and interest-rate
movements -- and hence the price of bonds -- should be highly correlated.
But, in practice, this link is not perfect, especially in the short term.
Says Michel Gonard at BZWIM: &quot;We have developed a number of models
to look at this link. We have found that 90% of the long-term exchange-rate
can be explained by three factors: Purchasing Power Parity, current account
differentials and real interest rate differentials. But the deviation from
that equilibrium can be significant.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Third, and of most relevance to dollar-based investors, is that the dollar
is beginning to climb against most major currencies. &quot;If you are managing
a dollar-based portfolio, and the dollar is rising, as it is at the moment,
being able to hedge will add phenomenal value to your portfolio,&quot; says
Edward Dove, director of fixed income at Julius Baer Investment Managment.
On the other hand, if you think the dollar is going to fall in 1996, you
probably want to avoid hedging. As can be seen from the data compiled by
JP Morgan, this would have been the best strategy for a dollar investor
from 1990 to 1995 when the dollar was falling. <BR>
<BR>
Some portfolio managers have developed models that allow them to manage
currency risk and interest-rate risk together by putting a common figure
on both types of risk. For example, some of the concepts behind value-at-risk
(VAR) -- a risk management model designed to monitor the internal risks
to which banks are exposed on a daily basis -- can be applied to portfolio
management. VAR has two distinct benefits over duration as a measure of
risk exposure: it calculates the volatility and correlations of the different
markets within a bond portfolio; and it enables portfolio managers to express
all their risk positions as an amount of money. <BR>
<BR>
Says Mohsen Fahmi at Salomon: &quot;VAR measures your risk positions in
different markets and equalizes them. So, say all your positions have a
VAR of $1 million, they are all likely to appreciate or depreciate by the
same amount. You can even compare bond exposure with foreign exchange exposure
and take foreign exchange positions with the same exposure as your bond
positions.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A portfolio manager can use VAR to quantify all his different market risks
together so that he can hedge a currency position with a bond position and
vice versa. VAR can also be used to model an optimal portfolio given expected
changes in the yield curve and exchange rates. This is especially useful
in the context of managing a portfolio relative to a benchmark. A portfolio
manager will typically be given a target to outperform a specific benchmark
by, say, 100 basis points. Using VAR, he can determine what kind of portfolio
he has to build to achieve that level of outperformance. Says Timothy Manna,
head of international fixed income at JP Morgan Investment Management in
London: &quot;Sometimes the tracking error is large -- the optimizer tells
you that you have to take a lot of risk to achieve the required level of
outperformance. At other times, you don't need to take as much risk to meet
the target.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Basic VAR models do have limitations: they assume that the volatility of
returns on all instruments are normally distributed, which is not true for
bond markets; they assume that all instruments can be liquidated at the
same time; and, most importantly, they rely on datamining to predict future
volatilty. What happens, for example, if bond markets start behaving in
different ways than they have done in the past? Some portfolio managers
talk of paradigm shifts, such as the exit of sterling from the ERM in 1992,
which fundamentally alter the ways in which markets co-vary; the impact
of such shifts is hard to measure. Another limitation is that the complexity
of VAR models is beyond the reach of many investment managers. The portfolio
managers allied to investment banks have a natural advantage here. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Credit risk</B> <BR>
<BR>
Even VAR models can not properly measure credit risk. The risk of default
depends on too many variables to be easily predictable. What's more, credit
risk for a global bond investor is not only the risk of default; it is also
the risk of illiquidity. Because portfolio managers need to move quickly
in and out of markets, they can rarely afford to invest in less liquid securities
such as Eurobonds and corporate paper. Although there is usually a gain
in yield from investing in lower-grade securities -- which may be a good
compensation for the extra risk -- there is nearly always a liquidity cost.
As a result, most portfolio managers only invest in government bonds. If
they do take credit risk, it is only in markets where they always have core
holdings, such as the US. Even then, their clients usually restrict them
to investing in AA or higher-grade securities. <BR>
<BR>
Says Edward Dove, director of fixed income at Julius Baer Investment Management:
&quot;In global portfolios, we will take credit risk in the dollar market,
because if you have a core holding of bonds you can add some incremental
returns by taking a degree of credit risk. But in the European markets you
need the liquidity to move around. Any spread benefits you might get from
Eurobonds will be more than wiped out by the dealing costs of moving in
and out of them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Gordon Johns at Zurich Investment Management believes that taking credit
risk makes little sense in the context of a global portfolio: &quot;Taking
credit risk in a single market, single currency portfolio may be one of
the only ways you can add value,&quot; he says. &quot;But in a global portfolio,
where returns tend to be dominated by the currency element and which market
to be in, buying corporate debt or lower-rated paper within a market will
add little in terms of extra returns to the overall portfolio. It might
add 50 or even 200 basis points in an individual market, but that gain will
be swamped by the decision as to whether I want to be in that market at
all.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Nevertheless, in an environment in which global interest rates are falling,
some investors are feeling the pressure to increase yields by investing
in lower-grade credit. Charles Jackson, head of fixed income at Mercury
Asset Management, believes that consultants are largely responsible for
this pressure: &quot;Consultants recognize that credit strategies are easily
explicable and therefore they encourage their clients to look more closely
at credit strategies. Our view is that you tend to get what you pay for.
It is probably better to concentrate on getting your market position right
than taking aggressive views on sub-investment grade credit.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Investors are also exposed to credit risk in the foreign exchange markets.
The credit exposure to foward currency positions can be massive. One portfolio
manager tells the story of a client who had a foreign-exchange position
with Barings: &quot;Barings went belly-up on the day the future matured,&quot;
he says. &quot;The client paid away on the pay side, but didn't get his
money back on the other side.&quot; The lesson: only deal with banks that
are too big to fail. Don't use over-the-counter products for currency hedging
unless you are sure of the credit-worthiness of your counterparty. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Derivative risks</B> <BR>
<BR>
The perils of using derivatives to place market bets rather than to manage
risk has been amply demonstrated in the past couple of years. Both Orange
County and the State of Wisconsin incurred big losses by attempting to use
interest-rate derivative instruments to increase the yields on their bond
portfolios. These losses have made many investors nervous. Says Timothy
Manna at JP Morgan: &quot;Unfortunately, derivatives have got a bad name.
They can be used as risk management tools, not just risk taking tools. We
believe that the judicious use of derivatives facilitates portfolio management.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Portfolio managers have had to get used to dealing with two types of clients:
those that won't use derivatives, period; and those that will use them,
with the proviso that they receive regular reassurance that the instruments
are being used properly. Even when they are allowed to use derivatives,
portfolio managers are typically restricted to bond futures for managing
the interest-rate risk and forward exchange contracts for managing the currency
risk. This isn't necessarily a handicap. Interest-rate futures and forward
exchange contracts are more liquid than swaps, options or structured notes
and usually less expensive to trade. The fee on interest-rate futures, for
example, is typically a fraction of a basis point, whereas on an interest-rate
swap it may be three or four basis points -- or ten times as much. <BR>
<BR>
Futures are a cheap and easy way of hedging duration positions. For example,
if you are short duration and want to get back to the index duration position,
but you are not sure which bonds you want to buy, futures are an efficient
way of altering your duration without having to change your position in
the underlying market. <BR>
<BR>
An interest-rate swap is essentially an OTC future. As such, it has some
of the disadvantages associated with OTC instruments -- it is less liquid
and more expensive than an exchange-traded future. Some portfolio managers
avoid this problem by creating their own swaps through the exchange-traded
derivatives market. Swaps can be replicated directly using a string of futures
contracts to sell each of the coupons on a bond as well as the final principal.
This can be a cheaper method of constructing a swap because you avoid paying
a premium to the banks. Says Michael Hyman, chief executive officer at GH
Asset Management: &quot;Our view is that the swap players are, as it were,
the main line insurers, and that the exchange-traded derivatives players
are effectively the reinsurers. The banking community uses exchange-traded
derivatives to hedge its exchange risk, so why go to the insurance market
when I can go direct to the reinsurance market.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Interest-rate options can be useful for downside protection. You might,
for example, buy a call option when the market rises to protect yourself
against the market falling. But some portfolio managers argue that options
are an inefficient tool for hedging risk. Says Michael Hyman at GH asset
Management. &quot;If I want to reduce risk, I will lay it off through the
futures or forwards market. The options market -- with time decay either
on my side or working against me -- will not necessarily manage that risk
effectively. That's why we use options for enhancement rather than risk
management.&quot; Options can be used in a dynamic way to enhance the performance
of a bond portfolio by changing its risk profile. But many portfolio managers
are prohibited from using dynamic option strategies by investors who are
allergic to anthing that smells of leverage. This is a mistake: a well-run
option strategy can be a much cheaper and more efficient way of altering
your portfolio's risk profile than trading in the underlying cash market.
<BR>
<bR><B>Annual Index returns, US$ terms</B><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Global</B></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Global</B></TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B>Year</B></TD> <TD><B>Unhedged</B></TD>
<TD><B>Hedged</B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1990</TD>
<TD>11.76</TD> <TD>6.28</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1991</TD>
<TD>15.45</TD> <TD>13.08</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1192</TD>
<TD>4.55</TD> <TD>6.66</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1993</TD>
<TD>12.27</TD> <TD>12.16</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1994</TD>
<TD>1.28</TD> <TD>-4.05</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1995</TD>
<TD>19.32</TD> <TD>17.9</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=3><I>Source: JP Morgan</I></TD>
</TR> </TABLE> <bR><B>Correlations across markets</B> <TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD></TD> <TD><B>France</B></TD> <TD><B>Germany</B></TD>
<TD><B>Japan</B></TD> <TD><B>UK</B></TD> <TD><B>US</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>France</TD>
<TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1.00</TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Germany</TD> <TD>0.75</TD> <TD>1.00</TD>
<TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Japan</TD>
<TD>0.17</TD> <TD>0.21</TD> <TD>1.00</TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">UK</TD>
<TD>0.62</TD> <TD>0.64</TD> <TD>0.05</TD> <TD>1.00</TD> <TD></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">US</TD> <TD>0.36</TD> <TD>0.41</TD> <TD>-0.02</TD>
<TD>0.36</TD> <TD>1.00</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=6><I>Source: Goldman Sachs</I></TD>
</TR> </TABLE> <bR><B>Currency and bond correlations</B> <TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD></TD> <TD><B>France</B></TD> <TD><B>Germany</B></TD>
<TD><B>Japan</B></TD> <TD><B>UK</B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">France</TD>
<TD>-0.19</TD> <TD>-0.23</TD> <TD>-0.13</TD> <TD>-0.17</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Germany</TD>
<TD>-0.16</TD> <TD>-0.15</TD> <TD>-0.01</TD> <TD>-0.19</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Japan</TD>
<TD>0.18</TD> <TD>0.21</TD> <TD>0.26</TD> <TD>0.04</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">UK</TD>
<TD>-0.19</TD> <TD>-0.21</TD> <TD>-0.10</TD> <TD>-0.14</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">US</TD>
<TD>-0.5</TD> <TD>-0.4</TD> <TD>-0.08</TD> <TD>-0.03</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><I>Source:
Goldman Sachs</I></TD> </TR> </TABLE> <bR><B>Goldman Sachs Liquid Market
Index <BR>
yield volatilities</B> <TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B>Country</B></TD>
<TD><B>1-3 years</B></TD> <TD><B>10+ years</B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">France</TD>
<TD>15.12</TD> <TD>14.96</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Germany</TD>
<TD>13.50</TD> <TD>13.00</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Japan</TD>
<TD>30.11</TD> <TD>12.83</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">UK</TD>
<TD>15.95</TD> <TD>14.74</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">US</TD>
<TD>17.22</TD> <TD>12.36</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=3><I>Source: Goldman
Sachs</I></TD> </TR> </TABLE> <bR><BR><BR>
<H2>Who needs structured notes? </H2>
If you want to remain on good terms with your bond portfolio manager, don't
mention structured notes. &quot;I hate structured notes,&quot; says Edward
Dove at Julius Baer. &quot;They are basically designed by securities houses
to make themselves a big profit margin. They are illiquid and they enable
people who are not allowed to buy derivatives to get the same degree of
leverage.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Why the strength of feeling? Orange County's bankruptcy in 1994 -- caused
by the impact of rising US interest rates on its portfolio of leveraged
inverse floaters (a form of structured note) -- made investors hostile to
derivatives in general, and structured notes in particular. Many investors
see structured notes as a vehicle for investment banks to make lots of money
out of their clients' ignorance of derivatives. As a result, the use of
structured notes has plunged. <BR>
<BR>
Structured notes can be used in a number of ways: to enhance duration, to
hedge currency exposure, to change your asset class or to lever your portfolio.
Duration enhancers allow you to increase your duration without touching
the underlying portfolio. For example, if you are invested in a one-year
duration bond, you can buy a note thay gives you effective exposure to a
7-year bond. That's fine as long as you understand how the enhancer will
affect your portfolio's performance. But, says Julius Baer's Dove: &quot;That
is where a lot of people went wrong in 1993 and 1994. They thought they
were in a three-month floating-rate note that actually had the duration
of a 30-year note.&quot; You can also use a note to change your asset class
-- by, for example, receiving a payout linked to the performance of a commodity
index. Or you can hedge your currency exposure by, say, receiving the returns
on a portfolio of German bunds in US dollars. The leveraged bond plays that
were the cause of Orange County's grief in 1994 are now much less popular.
<BR>
<BR>
But you can't do anything with a structured note that you can't do in the
underlying derivatives market. The benefits are entirely ones of simplicity.
Instead of engaging in complex derivative plays using futures and swaps
to go long or short, why not just have all your risk management needs wrapped
up in one instrument? <BR>
<BR>
Because, say investors, structured notes generally score badly in terms
of cost, liquidity and transparency. Structured notes are always going to
be an expensive way of managing risk -- investment banks expect a large
fee as compensation for structuring the product. Says MAM's Jackson: &quot;When
you buy a structured note you are delegating your delta hedging to the bank
writing the note. If you have the resources to manage your own risks yourself,
you don't need to delegate your delta hedging activity.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Illiquidity can also be a problem, as many investors discovered in 1994
when global interest rates started rising. Suddenly, no-one wanted to buy
structured notes with embedded interest-rate options. The only way investors
could sell the notes was to unbundle all the embedded option elements and
sell them separately at a loss. Many banks now agree to buy notes back at
an agreed bid-offer spread if their clients want to sell them before maturity.
<BR>
<BR>
Investors also argue that structured notes are often opaque in price behaviour.
Many notes, for example, contain several embedded options. This makes it
complex to calculate how the price of the note will change when interest
rates move. But bankers say that most notes have simple payouts. A typical
note, for example, will rise or fall by $1000 for every basis point change
in interest rates. <BR>
<BR>
But you can do all this far more cheaply using the exchange-traded and OTC
derivatives market. So why pay an investment bank to do it for you? Some
investors believe there is only one reason: to circumvent guidelines prohibiting
the use of derivatives. The clever thing about structured notes is that
they allow you to build optionality into an instrument that doesn't look
like an option. Says Charles Jackson at MAM: &quot;People may use structured
products to get around regulatory or guideline constraints. We feel that
introduces a huge amount of moral hazard because you are essentially breaching
the spirit of the guidelines, and you are in deep trouble if things go wrong.&quot;
Far better to use transparent derivative instruments that make it clear
to all parties what risks are being taken and that are far cheaper to use.
<p>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="gi.96.04.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-29</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-55</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.04.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121159 text/html 6251
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:11:07 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 09:21:00 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6009
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: April 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.04.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.96.04.1.html"><b>Battling the risk in global bonds</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Measuring and controlling the risks in an international bond portfolio is
complex and new studies of currency, interest rates and correlation show
that rraditional tools are obsolete. <BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins</I>. 
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>INTERNATIONAL BONDS </b><br>
When diversification fails <br>
US investors have invested$300 billion in international equities, but few
have time for international bonds.<BR>
<I>Benjamin Ensor</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>GERMANY</b><br>
Taking a fresh look at Germany <br>
The economy is on the way to recovery and domestic investors are buying
shares again. Should foreigners follow suit <BR>
<I>Joanna Wrighton</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>EMERGING MARKETS </b><br>
Hunting for tigers <br>
Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar offer lots of promise, but investing
in South-east Asia's last emerging markets is not easy. <BR>
<I>Nicholas Kochan</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
Depository risk <br>
There is no such thing as a typical Central Securities Depository and they
are not necessarily risk-free. <BR>
<I>Simon Murray, Simon Thomas and Derek Duggan</I>. 
<br><br> 
</td>
</tr>





<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="surv"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra13.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>CURRENCY MANAGEMENT</b><br>
A comprehensive directory of the world's currency management firms and a
listing of the top banks in the London foreign exchange market.<br> 
<I>James Featherstone</I> 
<BR><BR>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
Russia tries to reduce investment risks| Thailand introduces a stock index
| Regent Pacific for sale | The potential of managed futures | European
dividend surprises predicted | UK fund managers: break away from the herd
<br><br>
<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
Bank of New York wins Norwich Union account | Midland wins Robeco's UK assets
| James Capel reviews custodians across Europe | Hewlett-Packard Germany
to follow Hoechst's lead 
<br><br>
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
Portfolio optimization for stocks </H3>
Portfolio theory can now be implemented at stock selection level thanks
to recent increases in the capacity of computers. <BR>
<I>Joseph Mariathasan</I>.
<br><br> 
<b>FUNDS</b><br>
Japanese gambit </H3>
Three fund management houses are hoping to benefit from investors' belief
that Japan is on the verg of a recovery. <BR>
<I>Joanna Wrighton</I>.
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
Waiting for disaster <br>
While investors wait for a massacre in the bond markets, <I>Global Investor's
</I>panel of asset allocators remain calm. <BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins</I></B>. 
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-30</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B039-329</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.07.1a.html 194.217.137.48 19970114173858 text/html 31188
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:37:54 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:24:20 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 30954
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
July 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H3><A NAME="wayon"></A>RELATIONSHIPS IN CRISIS  </H3>
<H4>
<A HREF="#one">One good turn...</A><BR>
<A HREF="#relationships">Relationships in Crisis</A><BR>
<A HREF="#german">German firms demand trust</A><BR>
<A HREF="#gm">GM keeps an open mind</A><BR>
<A HREF="#vw">VW's spectrum of strength</A><BR>
<A HREF="cf.96.07.1b.html">Ways of working together</A><BR>
<BR>
</H4>
<H2><A NAME="one"></A>One good turn... </H2>
Just when it seemed that both banks and corporates had learnt the lessons
of the late 1980s and early 1990s and had settled into a period of stable
relationships, along came the fall in lending margins and ruined it. <BR>
<BR>
Treasurers, still complaining as much as ever about banks' irrelevant sales
pitches, have begun to squeeze their lenders with more requests for refinancing
at ever tighter spreads and with fewer and fewer covenants. The banks &shyp;
having spent considerable time, effort and money enhancing their relationship
management divisions - are responding by refusing to join syndicates
or by moving into other credit markets. And if they cannot find the right
corporate relationships they will cynically use their private equity arms
to buy their way into new clients. Corporate banking is in crisis. <BR>
<BR>
Or is it? Although a minority of treasurers change banking syndicates and
advisers more regularly than they change their socks, many more continue
to commit themselves to a core banking group with which they conduct the
majority of their business. Their trusted providers no longer simply pay
lip service to relationships; they put their money where their mouth is
by offering a more integrated approach and more dedicated client managers.
<BR>
<BR>
In the following pages we present both sides of the debate: first the margin
squeezing and banks' use of private equity investments; second, how banks
have reorganized to service clients better and, through in-depth profiles,
how some responsible corporates take care of their banks. <BR>
<BR>
Our conclusion? Faith in corporate banking as the best way of doing business
is waning because of the behaviour of a few corporate sharks in pursuit
of nothing but the cheapest deal. The majority - both corporates and
banks - that adhere to the relationship concept should do more to promote
it. Strong supplier-customer relations are much in vogue between industrial
companies; the same groups should make sure they apply it to financial services.
<BR>
<BR>
Transaction banking of the late 1980s was followed by the credit crunch
of the early 1990s. Which corporates remember with any pleasure the day
their banks deserted them? <BR>
 <HR>
<H2><A NAME="relationships"></A>RELATIONSHIPS IN CRISIS </H2>
Banks have made efforts to improve the service they offer, easing up on
product-pushing and realigning their structure to deliver specialist skills.
Corporates. that reject the proffered hand and look only for short-term
advantage are neglecting the best chance of stable partnerships that will
see them through harder times, argues Matthew Ball. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;If you take the cover off they are all the same,&quot; is how James
Murray, managing director for northern Europe at Chase, describes bank annual
reports. And he is right. These days every bank claims it is a client-driven
relationship institution. The new Chase's own report is one of the best
examples. On page 9 Jimmy Lee of the global investment banking division
says: &quot;The merger means more customers will benefit from our commitment
to putting the client's interests before our own.&quot;; in its 1995 report
Credit Suisse claims it is &quot;committed to forming close and lasting
relationships with our customers&quot;; and ING claims that &quot;responsiveness
to the needs of the clients... [is] paramount in all the group's activities&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
Corporate treasurers will also have noticed the same message in banks' advertising
campaigns. Bankers Trust can provide &quot;financial services at the highest
level, worldwide, for the most demanding clients&quot;, and, as everybody
knows, &quot;no one carries more weight in the world <BR>
financial market than the new Chase client&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
But even if all banks are trying to offer the same thing there is more substance
to many of their claims about service quality and client focus than there
used to be. As the case studies starting on page 33 show, over the past
year banks have reorganized so that their structure is better suited to
serving customer needs. Corporate finance teams, for example, are organized
along industry lines so that they know their clients' business better and
can provide more sophisticated advice. <BR>
<BR>
More and more banks are providing relationship, or client account, managers.
These people act as a single and trusted point of contact with whom executives
from the client company can liaise and who work to bring together the resources
of the bank for the benefit of the client. Building a team of such managers
is a costly exercise for any bank and the skills and knowledge required
for the role, particularly by the most demanding of corporate clients, are
high. <BR>
<BR>
Research by Greenwich Associates proves that clients are grateful for the
effort - almost 85% of corporate executives interviewed last year by
the US firm said they see clear advantages to sector specialists. &quot;Clients
really appreciate the value that industry specialization can bring to their
transactions,&quot; confirms John Stanier, vice-president in Chase's global
media and telecommunications group. <BR>
<BR>
In particular, treasurers and CFOs like to be able to talk to bankers who
know their company, and they rightly become annoyed if they have to waste
time telling their service providers basic information. Says Russ Notides,
senior vice-president and head of the Asian corporate finance group at Bank
of America: &quot;Orientation towards developing partnerships or share of
mind with clients is an integral part of our relationship banking strategy.
It also results in the type of highly focused marketing that we feel is
a part of relationship banking and what management, particularly senior
management, wants and expects. Without this approach you run the risk of
simply being two guys with nice ties who are selling the product or idea
of the month. I would hate it if I was the CFO and probably would not tolerate
it more than once.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
And at a number of institutions part of the corporate banking division has
also been structured by industry, giving the client dedicated relationship
managers who also share the in-depth sector knowledge. Corporates say this
is something else they appreciate, though corporate bankers who come from
a group organized by geography are also liked because of the frequency of
contact needed and their understanding of domestic issues. 
<H3>Unfair treatment </H3>
But liking the greater efforts made by banks is one thing, rewarding them
fairly for it is quite another. And it is here that some treasurers and
finance directors still have not got the message. <BR>
<BR>
The problem has been exacerbated by the recent decline in lending margins.
More capital destructive than expenditure on human resources are the lines
of cheap credit that commercial banks are obliged to provide solely for
the privilege of being one of a company's core relationship banks. As spreads
on lending continue to fall they have reached levels that are so unprofitable
for the banks that a relationship manager making a presentation to the credit
committee has to be more certain than ever about the other opportunities
available from the client and the bank's chances of winning them. <BR>
<BR>
If, once the loan is in place, no other business is forthcoming the bank
has to warn the client about the situation and threaten to withdraw the
line 18 months later. This is hardly a recipe for a harmonious relationship.
<BR>
<BR>
Worse still, as margins fall the same corporate client comes back with a
request to refinance at lower rates. &quot;The requests now come every six
months rather than every two years,&quot; sighs one frustrated corporate
banker. Faith in the concept of relationship banking is declining. <BR>
<BR>
Tim Owen, director of treasury at Cadbury Schweppes, pointed out at a recent
conference in Dublin that the treasurer has a duty to obtain funds cost-
effectively but has a longer-term obligation to shareholders to ensure that
the company's banks support it in times of difficulty. But with some treasurers
putting short-term gains before their duty to prevent long-term pains the
minority could end up spoiling it for the majority. <BR>
<BR>
It is a touchy subject for the borrowers involved, but bankers who recognize
the necessity for a relationship across a range of products rather than
just lending are more open. &quot;You would have thought that after all
the battening down of the hatches in the early 1990s boards would look more
closely at longer-term bank relationships,&quot; says Iain Houston, director
of structured finance at the Royal Bank of Scotland. &quot;If you follow
the fall in margins down, credit as a stand-alone product becomes unprofitable
for the bank and it might well change its strategy. When the company comes
back the next time the bank may no longer wish to be in that credit business.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;You could say the banks' stance has not been clever but the corporates
are in a win-win situation at the moment. If recession starts, so what?
They have got their cheap five-year committed facilities in place.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Houston is well positioned to comment on the situation, having adopted a
relationship approach as treasurer of insurance broker Sedgwick in the 1980s
- a time when banks and clients preferred products to relationships
- and then Johnson Matthey where he replaced a 36-strong bank syndicate
with 10 bilaterals and kept the 10 lenders happy by rewarding them with
his other business. <BR>
<BR>
Adds the head of loans at another bank: &quot;Then there is the issue of
wallet size. Will there be enough even for a small number of banks? You
might put up 25% of the credit but will you get 25% of the FX business?
Well you'll probably get the calls to find out your price.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Treasurers are not obliged to buy uncompetitive bank services and core banks
know that to win business other than lending they must provide quality service
at the best price, but for corporates to squeeze the last pip out of every
deal with every bank can become counterproductive. <BR>
<BR>
At least a company such as BTR is consistent. The UK conglomerate, renowned
for achieving the finest of terms on its borrowing, has no relationship
banks and every bank that considers lending it money knows that this is
the view of the treasury team. That said, BTR's success in winning the finest
of terms on its deals encourages others to try to do the same. 
<H3>No end to cheap credit </H3>
The bad news for banks and proponents of relationship banking is that cheap
credit will continue to abound. Says Peter Lucas, joint general manager
and head of corporate banking at Sanwa Bank: &quot;It is a borrowers' market
and will be for a good while to come. There are too many banks and no ingredients
for change, such as the possibility of a few corporate failures. In fact,
more supply may be on the way from other countries such as Korea and Malaysia.
The German Landesbanks with their strong ratings and good balance sheets
are also expanding.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
To maintain profitability when they are being squeezed by borrowers banks
end up cutting staff, thereby reducing service quality - another typical
corporate complaint. But to encourage better service, particularly in cash
management, corporates should choose their providers based on service quality
and not just price. <BR>
<BR>
Greenwich has found that many claim to do this but do not practice what
they preach. The research firm says that 60% of cash management specialists
at US corporations with sales over $500 million affirm that they emphasize
quality over price in selecting cash management banks and only 11% emphasize
price over quality in making the selection. Yet ask the same companies why
banks lose cash management business and they report that price outweighs
every other reason by a ratio of at least 2 to 1. <BR>
<BR>
Says Greenwich consultant David Fox: &quot;Not only is price twice as important
as accuracy of service but it is also five times as important as a bank's
inability to produce innovative ideas, eight times as important as a bank's
unwillingness to customize services and 25 times as important as banks'
lack of expertise in EDI.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The same holds true for giving other business to cash management banks that
the companies are already using. Says Greenwich's Pete Garrison: &quot;Our
research shows that only 28% of large US companies are doing this on the
basis of banks' operations quality, while 45% are doing so on the basis
of banks' competitive pricing.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Greenwich also found that just 17% of companies have instituted a cash management
quality review programme whereas more than twice as many - 36% -
have instituted a cash management cost review programme. 
<H3>Forced into new areas </H3>
The margin squeeze has already pushed banks into other areas. In lending,
for example, banks are finding the terms on acquisition finance more attractive.
A few Japanese lenders such as Sanwa have returned to funding management
buy-outs. Many banks are now keener to lend to emerging markets than participate
in undrawn corporate revolvers. This includes financing western companies'
expansion and trade, a strategy favoured by Credit Suisse, which has been
busy hiring senior executives for its corporate banking division. &quot;Lend
them money at home and you earn nothing,&quot; says one corporate banker.
&quot;Lend them the same amount for a complex deal in Russia and you can
get 4%.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Banks trying to diversify their lending habits will receive criticism from
some treasurers, who would accuse them of constantly shifting strategy.
Consistency is what corporates value. <BR>
<BR>
In this instance it is more a case of the banks' responding to the market
than whimsically changing to suit the latest fad, but banks are, rightly,
accused of moving into new areas only to pull out again soon after. The
old Chase, for example, entered the ADR market in 1994 and withdrew -
with far less fanfare - the following year. <BR>
<BR>
Even a bank as committed to relationship management as JP Morgan makes the
odd slip. A spokesperson from the bank strongly denied it was going to pull
out of the cash management business just days before it did. One US client
had spent a long time working with the bank on a project in this area on
the understanding that service was going to continue - despite the
rumours to the contrary - and was less than pleased when the announcement
came last year. Would that make the treasurer less likely to use the bank
for some other services? &quot;You could say it might,&quot; came the reply.
<BR>
<BR>
Treasurers' complaints about banks' services and personnel suggest that
the current crisis of confidence in relationship banking is not just the
fault of the corporates. <BR>
<BR>
Bank takeovers and mergers that lead to at best uncertainty and at worst
disruption in service are one gripe. In this regard Chase is to be congratulated
in quick integration and a commitment to looking after top clients over
the past few months. Slower integration can lead to problems. <BR>
<BR>
The first is that clients and potential clients are uncertain about what
part of the new bank does what business. One name and one division for each
service is always preferable and saves time during meetings. HSBC Investment
Banking's recent rebranding, for example, merely created another set of
rules and exceptions rather than formed the fully integrated house clients
would like. <BR>
<BR>
The second is the danger of in-fighting. One banker recalls a meeting with
a client to close a large project deal in which his bank and HSBC were involved:
&quot;The HSBC guys were arguing in front of the client about which division
of the bank should book the deal.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Quality of staff, as well as the frequency with which they change, is a
common corporate complaint about banks. Says Murray at Chase: &quot;Clients
tell me that for 90% of the calls they receive where a banker says they
will do some follow-up such as sending some documentation nothing happens.
So, as a bank, if you just do what you promise you are in the top 10%.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
One large corporate was looking to hire a banker to take a senior position
in its finance department. It made a list of staff it knew at the 25 banks
it used for most of its business and found just three <BR>
it would even consider interviewing. &quot;Hardly a ringing endorsement
of faith in banks, is it?&quot; comments one corporate banker. <BR>
<BR>
But however much corporates complain about their banks - and some of
the complaints from German companies (see boxes on p28 and this page) should
keep most responsible bankers awake at night - it is the corporates
that determine where the market goes, not the banks. The banks are the ones
that respond to changes in corporate purchasing habits. <BR>
<BR>
Banks' annual reports may all say the same thing, but at least the institutions
are <BR>
stating their commitment to relationship banking. A reader of corporates'
annual reports will find the companies are saying many different things
but none declares much of an interest in looking after its banks. <BR>
 <HR>
<H2><A NAME="german"></A>German firms demand trust </H2>
Eberhard Scheffler has a long history of sorting out bank relationships.
He has recently retired from the position of chief financial officer at
Batig, the German arm of the BAT group. His communication with banks continues
because he now sits on on the supervisory boards of several large German
companies. <BR>
<BR>
During his time at Batig the company began to bring cash management business
in-house, as well as doing some borrowing internally and hedging interest
rates and currencies. <BR>
<BR>
In Germany, Batig uses between five and seven core banks. The company has
strong relationships with the bigger German banks, but Scheffler says that
US banks are becoming better at forming close relationships with European
clients. <BR>
<BR>
According to Scheffler, this has not always been the case. He tells an anecdote
about a company in which he worked which began to have difficulties meeting
repay-ments on its borrowings. &quot;An American bank was the first to cut
down the credit line and reduce the loans,&quot; he says. &quot;This really
caused us financial problems until a German bank stepped in to fill the
hole. The American bank's idea was to do business as long as it could make
profits and go away during the bad times. I think the US banks have changed
in this regard.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Scheffler says that German corporates demand a high level of trust in their
banks. Many of the companies are still family-owned and have less expertise
in financing than their US rivals. They need to rely more on bank advice.
At the Forex 96 conference in Frankfurt, Scheffler criticized banks for
failing to address client needs adequately. He called for customer-oriented
solutions to problems and said that many banks were &quot;not geared to
solving problems but only geared to selling their products&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Admits Scheffler: &quot;The banks that sell these products are very persuasive.
People believe that the banks must know what is best for the company, but
industrial and trading companies are well advised to use only instruments
that they understand. They must ask the banks what can happen to the market
value of a product and what risks are involved.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
While Scheffler was at Batig, the company developed an on-line monitoring
system to track the perfomance of derivative products, which leads to the
company occasionally initiating a change in policy. But still he believes
that banks are not making enough of an effort to tailor products to customer
needs. &quot;Very often banks phone us and have no idea what business we
are in; whether we are an importer of products or currency or an exporter;
what the net position of the company is and what is the specific seasonal
development of the business,&quot; he says. &quot;We are not just interested
in making good margins or paying very little provision for services.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Scheffler suspects that &quot;some banks are so busy with their own reorganization
they don't have enough time to keep up with the volatility of the markets.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Despite these criticisms, he is satisfied with the performance of his core
banks. He believes that the banks that respond to Batig's suggestions have
ended up better able to serve other corporate clients in Europe. GR <BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="gm"></A>GM keeps an open mind </H2>
Few companies command as much interest among banks prospecting for new customers
as General Motors, the US car manufacturer. A global company with operations
in countries as far afield as Poland, Brazil and China, General Motors is
one of the largest corporate users of banking services in the world. Since
1980 it has launched more than 180 bond issues (excluding those issued by
its purchase financing subsidiary GMAC). Banks compete fiercely to secure
a close relationship with the company and its treasury operation. <BR>
<BR>
Having completely rescheduled its debt via a $25 billion refinancing operation
in 1993, General Motors already has relationships with well over 100 banks,
many of which have been dealing with it for decades. But this does not stop
new banks pitching for business. &quot;We get a large number of banks calling
us trying to get a piece of our business,&quot; says Stefan Bello, treasurer
at General Motors' Brussels European treasury centre. <BR>
<BR>
At a smaller company this constant stream of prospecting bankers might be
regarded as a nuisance, but General Motors takes a different approach. It
has a special team covering bank relationships led by Robin Rocchi, which
co-ordinates with smaller banks to make sure they know who to contact within
the organization. &quot;We try to be open and accessible to banks,&quot;
explains Bello. &quot;We don't want to be limited to just a few banks; we
want to keep our relationships very open and allow banks to bid for business.
That is how we get the best service out of them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
As part of this open approach, General Motors regularly gives smaller banks
a chance to compete for business with its established providers. Three to
five of the company's 30 or so foreign exchange dealers are replaced every
year. Every time the company is looking to raise finance for a new plant
(such as its Dm500 million car assembly project in Poland), it sends out
requests for proposals to between 12 and 15 different banks to make sure
it is covering all the options and getting the best price possible. &quot;I
think we get pretty good service from our banks,&quot; says Mark Greenquist,
the company's assistant treasurer. <BR>
<BR>
Like many companies, General Motors often finds itself dealing regularly
with the small group of global banks that dominate certain areas of banking.
&quot;Banks that have dealt with us a lot tend to have a huge advantage
[over other banks] because they know exactly what kind of things we are
interested in,&quot; says Bello. About 80% of the company's currency option
business, for example, is won by just five banks: <BR>
SBC Warburg, Citibank, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. The project
financing loans set up to finance new car assembly plants are often arranged
by one of five different banks: Chemical, Citibank, Credit Suisse, JP Morgan
or BZW. Its relationship to Chemical Bank was particularly close thanks
to the attentions of Gerry Hannon, the bank's relationships officer for
General Motors. <BR>
<BR>
Nevertheless, the variety of institutions used by General Motors is extremely
wide. Who else would use Woodmen of the World and Farmers New World Life
Insurance to help find buyers for a $250 million note placement (as the
company did in June 1992)? Who else would use BZW to lead a Canadian dollar
bond (as General Motors did in February 1996)? It is a culture of constant
examination where banks are never permitted to expect business. &quot;It
works pretty well,&quot; says Greenquist. CO <BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="vw"></A>VW's spectrum of strength </H2>
Rutbert Reisch, chief financial officer of Volkswagen, has had experience
of both sides of relationship banking. Before joining the German car manufacturer
he was a general manager at Bayerische Landesbank in New York. <BR>
<BR>
According to Reisch, Volkswagen takes a &quot;tough but fair&quot; attitude
to its bank relationships. He terms the company's banking policy as one
of &quot;competitive relationship management&quot;. He adds: &quot;We are
relationship oriented and not transaction oriented but we expect the market's
best prices.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Every area of business activity in Volkswagen uses a small number of core
banks. &quot;The banks are grouped together so that the competitive strengths
of each institution are combined to give us a whole spectrum of strength,&quot;
he says. &quot;But we are careful to keep the groups small enough so that
we can be an interesting banking partner for each of the banks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Even the biggest clients can get shoddy treatment from the banks, as Reisch
pointed out in an anecdote he told at the Forex 96 conference in Frankfurt
in May of this year. &quot;The law of know your client is very important
if you want to build up a relationship with us,&quot; he said. &quot;A few
years ago a banker came and tried to tell me that we should list our stock
in Tokyo. I listened to him for about 10 minutes, after which I told him
that I accepted all of his arguments - that was why we had listed there
10 months earlier. Our conversation thereafter was rather short.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Reisch says that what Volkswagen wants in a bank is mutual trust, reliability
and competence in delivering services. &quot;The worst thing a bank can
do is come in with a creative idea, get everybody worked up about it and
then fall on its face when executing it,&quot; he says. &quot;On the other
hand, the worst thing a corporate can do is to take a creative idea from
a bank and show it to another bank to find out if that bank can do it more
cheaply. That is the way to kill a relationship.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A bank that indulges in cherry-picking does not get Volkswagen's business,
but a bank which has a particular strength in one area but is weaker in
another area does have the opportunity to serve Volkswagen by becoming a
member of a core banking group. The banking groups are reviewed every six
months to a year. Banks that slip up once may be given a second chance.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;You can have a difference of opinion for quite a while and you can
argue about it,&quot; says Reisch. &quot;If something goes wrong you can
generally understand that in large organizations things go wrong from time
to time.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Like most companies, Volkswagen has benefited from increased competition
in the banking industry. &quot;For standard products like foreign exchange
business is very competitive and pricing has become very tight for the banks,&quot;
says Reisch. &quot;That's business - we have the same competitive pressures
in the car industry.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
For banks that are attentive and know the client's needs thoroughly, Reisch
says there will always be work. &quot;We will have an increasing need for
banking,&quot; he says. &quot;One example of this is that five years ago
our foreign exchange turnover was the equivalent of about Dm20 billion.
Now it is about Dm105 billion. We have not increased our staff or our resources
to deal with this.&quot; Specialist bankers can also alert Volkswagen to
opportunities in, for example, the Japanese private placement market. They
may be able to steer the company through some of the ramifications of European
monetary union, although Reisch says that &quot;we have done a lot of thinking
on that subject ourselves, and sometimes when I am in discussion with the
banks, I wonder who is giving more to whom&quot;. GR <BR>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.07.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-31</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B047-140</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.07.1b.html 194.217.137.48 19970114181246 text/html 46671
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 18:11:44 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:24:19 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 46437
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
July 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H3><A NAME="wayoff"></A>WAYS OF WORKING TOGETHER</H3>Corporates may be demanding, but some banks are learning how to look after
them. 

<BR><H4>

</A><A HREF="#newchase">New Chase more than the sum of its parts</A> <BR>
<A HREF="#newmoves">New moves to meet the customer</A><BR>
<A HREF="#citi">Citi strives for seamless strategy</A> <BR>
<A HREF="#posgold">PosGold values the skill</A><BR>
<A HREF="#forjpmorgan">For JP Morgan personalities must connect</A><BR>
<A HREF="#bankerstrust">Bankers Trust takes emphasis off product</A><BR>
<A HREF="#anzplea">ANZ plea is for privileged dialogue</A><BR>
<A HREF="#baeapplies">BAe applies the loans test</A><BR>
<A HREF="#bzwtook">BZW took care to consult the client</A><BR>
<A HREF="#unknown">Unknown territory is ING proving ground</A><BR>
<A HREF="#clydeneeds">Clyde needs to be understood</A><BR>
<A HREF="cf.96.07.1a.html">Relationships in crisis</A><BR>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
</H4>

 
<H3><A NAME="newchase"></A>New Chase more than the sum of its parts </H3>
Day one at the new Chase was April 1, the date of the headline merger of
the holding companies of Chase Manhattan Corporation and Chemical Banking
Corporation. Day two is July 15 when the day-to-day integrated operations
are set in motion. <BR>
<BR>
The new group has excited existing and potential clients keen to see what
the combined strengths will bring to them. Soon after the announcement of
the merger, managers from the two banks gathered in a large room and were
asked by senior executives what each side was bringing to the enlarged group.
Unanimously, they replied that Chase brought relationships and Chemical
its product range. <BR>
<BR>
That may be overstating the emphasis that each placed on the two ends of
the corporate banking spectrum, but if the combination of the banks works
the new Chase will be one of the top relationship powerhouses around. <BR>
<BR>
With an enhanced product range in their armoury, the bank's relationship
managers will be working hard to provide more services to their existing
clients rather than trying to cover the whole <BR>
market haphazardly. Says James Murray, managing director for northern Europe:
&quot;My preference is to develop what is on the table, although we are
interested in new clients because the market is dynamic. There are 160 clients
in my group; if I had 160 good relationships I would start another bank.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;So in the near term we will be taking the good clients, and doing
something else for them that we don't already do. The old Chase, for example,
was a leader in global electronic banking; Chemical couldn't offer that
service to its clients but the new Chase can. I used to have four or five
bulge bracket products; now with the combined strengths of the two banks
I have nine or 10.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
More products may be on the way as the new bank gears up to attack the M&amp;A
advisory market. Mark Davis, previously co-head of mergers and acquisitions
at Salomon Brothers, was recently recruited to head the new Chase's department.
A greater presence in equities is the next step. <BR>
<BR>
The time between the merger being announced and the launch of the combined
operations presented rivals with an opportunity to take some of the bank's
clients, but, although Chase spent some time being introspective, client
managers were encouraged to keep calling customers to keep disruption to
a minimum. <BR>
<BR>
The bank has also been quick to go and see clients to explain what the new
bank offers and to address the needs of customers that found they were overexposed
to one institution. Says Guy Spaull, managing director in Chase's global
project finance and advisory division: &quot;Some clients felt that the
joint institution had too much of their business. We sat down with them
to discuss their concerns. With our geographic reach we can still be competitive
and provide a large proportion of their multi-product business.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Chase does not yet have the same network reach as Citibank, but does that
matter? The bank seems satisfied that few new branches are needed. Says
Murray: &quot;Some banks invest and then, guess what, they pull back and
shut down. What message does that give to clients? Technology sometimes
obviates the need to have bricks and mortar. Our branch network is already
in countries that account for 95% of the world's GNP.&quot; MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;Still not as global as they should be.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;A formidable rival.&quot; </I><BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="newmoves"></A>New moves to meet the customer </H2>
Bank's efforts to reorganize to provide customers with a more integrated,
user-friendly approach knows no bounds. Some of the initiatives include:-
<BR>
<BR>
* In March Deutsche Morgan Grenfell launched a new division called investment
banking origination. Comprising about 40 executives organized geographically,
the group is the bank's relationship management function, providing a single
point of contact for clients from which they can access any of the services
the integrated bank can provide. All recruits were from within the bank.
<BR>
<BR>
* Project Omega is Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale's initiative to
become a leading European investment bank through its London subsidiary
West Merchant Bank. The bank has been developing its capabilities in a range
of services outside traditional lending, including M&amp;A advisory and,
non-Deutschmark bonds. It has also been hiring aggressively. <BR>
<BR>
* How far will integration among the divisions of CS Holding go? In April
Credit Suisse and CS First Boston agreed to merge their respective commercial
and investment banking businesses in Germany. A single account officer will
cover each client and provide the whole range of services offered by the
two groups. The experiment, if successful, may lead to similar efforts elsewhere.
MB <BR>
<HR>
<H3><A NAME="citi"></A>Citi strives for seamless strategy </H3>
Corporates struggling to find an internal structure that makes employees
think and act as part of a global organization rather than cling to their
own little patch would do well to look at how Citibank has reorganized its
relationship banking effort. <BR>
<BR>
The old World Corporation Group performed well enough, looking after the
needs of Citi's 230 or so top corporate customers, and was the envy of competitors
as well as corporates not in the select group. It was, however, geographically
disparate. Split into three parts - the US, Europe and Japan -
the group was less able than it should have been to provide the seamless
service around the world that the bank's customers need. And companies outside
the group received a more piecemeal approach. <BR>
<BR>
Launched at the beginning of the year, the new structure, called global
relationship banking, comprises about 1,400 large, global companies, the
majority of which the bank already does business with. More deals with these
companies and new relationships with the others is the aim. Says Bob McCormack,
head of Citibank's global relationship banking business: &quot;Previously,
those companies not in the WCG and now in the GRB got an episodic approach
- they had a deal and we did it. The WCG clients got planning and foresight,
which produced superior returns. For the others there was no specific plan
or if there was one it was locally oriented. So now we hope to achieve the
same experience with all clients as we did with those in the WCG.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The responsibilities of those managers at the top are divided so that returns
can be measured only on the performance of the whole group rather than on
a part of it; turf issues can therefore be avoided. So customer group executive
Truett Tate has geographical responsibilities - Germany and part of
the US, for example, - and also industry ones, such as pharmaceuticals
and chemicals. But the matrix is flexible - where another senior banker
already has had a strong relationship with, say, a German pharmaceutical
company for years, he will continue to service that company rather than
introduce Tate and hand over responsibility. <BR>
<BR>
Most WCG companies have kept the same relationship managers; at that level
a more global mindset within the new operating environment is one of the
main differences. This brings the group into line with the products areas
such as foreign exchange and derivatives that had been run as a global business
for some time. Says Tate: &quot;We have been involved in a lot of reorganizations
and this isn't one. Rather, this is an alignment of our vision and strategy
with our reward and compensation structure. Our customers want to talk about
it all night. They are wrestling with the same thing - focusing on
cultural behaviour, customers, relationships and what role each part plays
in a global group.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
As Citi's customers move into more and more countries the bank must follow
them there with the same service it provides elsewhere. Citi's branch network
in more than 90 countries is well suited to this strategy and emerging market
returns are driving much of its planning. Says Jim Bailey, head of transaction
processing: &quot;The wallet of US industrial companies' domestic operations
is growing at 5% to 6% a year, but in emerging markets it is growing at
30% a year and we already have a larger share of it and are well placed
to take advantage of this trend.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The bank has no aspirations to diversify into areas such as mainstream M&amp;A
or global co-ordination of equity offerings. It is sticking to the more
treasury-oriented products, where it has a competitive advantage. Says Bailey:
&quot;We are not going to move into treasury workstations or accounting
software. You could say that we are in manufacturing - pushing costs
down and putting more through the same network. We are an integrator, we
deliver solutions and give access to the payments network and the infrastructure.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Adds McCormack: &quot;It's old fashioned banking but you can't buy into
it because the start-up costs are too big.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In this context, large investment in hiring big-ticket M&amp;A teams for
domestic US deals makes no sense. Says Tate: &quot;Nothing in our research
makes me believe that if they did M&amp;A with us we would automatically
get more cash management business from them. In fact, our experience is
that cash management or foreign exchange are the lead products to the relationship.
The challenge is then to leverage this across other core product lines.&quot;
MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: &quot;Reorganizes every two years.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;Very strong in client management; WCG served them well.&quot; </I><BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="posgold"></A>PosGold values the skill </H2>
Guy Manuell, treasurer of the Australian Normandy Mining group, takes relationship
banking seriously. &quot;We are very relationship-driven,&quot; he says.
&quot;We talk to a core number of banks - there are not that many big
banks in bullion - but we talk about a lot of issues with them. And
we see treasury products such as lending and cash management services as
business we can give those banks. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Many more treasurers are aware of these sort of issues than they were
five years ago and some companies are more committed to it than others.
I would like to think we are very committed to it not just in what we say
but in what we do.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A willingness to discuss openly possible transactions and strategies with
banks close to the company led to an innovative gold lease rate hedge last
year. PosGold, a Normandy company, had issued a gold denominated bond in
1994 (issue 118, September 1994, pp50-51). <BR>
<BR>
The bond has a fixed interest rate of 2.65% a year paid semi-annually for
the first five years. The interest is denominated in gold and a formula
converts the fixed amount of gold into US dollars, which is then the amount
received by investors. <BR>
<BR>
A subsequent transaction to lower funding costs further was not easy. &quot;Generally
with option-related transactions you have to pay a large premium,&quot;
says Manuell. &quot;And even if you bought an option and sold an option
there would probably be a net cost.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
PosGold approached Morgan Stanley with the concept of using an interest
rate swap and options to manage this exposure. The bank took these ideas
and turned them into the solution the company was looking for. <BR>
<BR>
First, the bank did a gold-denominated interest rate swap where PosGold
would receive 2.65% semi-annually and pay floating gold leasing rates. Then
there was a collar whose higher level was 2.65%. &quot;That meant that it
didn't matter what happened to gold lease rates; we would always pay a maximum
of 2.65%, which we were already doing with the fixed-rate bond,&quot; says
Manuell. The collar's lower level is undisclosed but if the gold leasing
rate goes below a certain level PosGold will pay less than 2.65%. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The option was structured so that it would be zero-cost,&quot; says
Manuell. &quot;If gold leasing rates go to a sufficiently low level we will
start to pick up some benefit down to a predetermined level and if the rates
keep on falling we give up further downside. All we have done is to give
ourselves the opportunity to pay less than 2.65% so that I think it's a
good deal. There's all upside and no downside for PosGold. And Morgan Stanley
has done nicely because it has done a deal it wanted to do.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
For the deal to be possible at all the personal nature of the relationship
with the bank was crucial. &quot;It was very much one of my team and one
of their people working together for quite some time to come up with it.
We have a policy where we are happy to talk to our relationship banks about
anything like this and at the end of the day the worst we can do is say:
'No thanks, we are not interested'. There was a lot of negotiation before
it could be tailored to suit our particular needs and it is fair to say
that it was far more the skill of the two individuals concerned than something
like a bank's global reach in bullion that made it possible.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The bank was so pleased with the deal that it included a mention of it in
its 1995 annual report. &quot;Morgan Stanley is one of our closer relationships,&quot;
says Manuell, &quot;and we'd like to think that over time other transactions
will emerge with them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
That said, the banks that lend the company money receive most of its treasury
business - Chase, Citibank and JP Morgan are among the Normandy Group's
relationship banks in this area. <BR>
<BR>
Manuell found no disruption to Chase's service during the merger with Chemical
and is excited about what the new Chase can offer. &quot;In Australia they
will be a lot more help to us in the future because of the size of the bank.
Whereas in the past as a lender Chase would have been able to do deals of
a certain size, the new Chase is just so much bigger and will be able to
be involved in much bigger transactions.&quot; MB <BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H3><A NAME="forjpmorgan"></A>For JP Morgan personalities must connect </H3>
Ask almost any banker or corporate treasurer which firm is the best at relationship
management and time after time the same one is mentioned: JP Morgan. Rather
than treating relationships as a fad to be cherished when clients want it
and ignored when they are more interested in products, the mighty house
of Morgan has had a more consistent approach. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Commitment to the client needs to be established over many years,&quot;
says managing director Bruce Carnegie-Brown. &quot;You can't turn this commitment
on and off, and that is where we have perhaps maintained our edge.&quot;
The firm's client bankers cover an average of 25 names and, according to
Carnegie-Brown, &quot;act as the lobbyist for the client within the bank
and the lobbyist for the bank within the client&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
As products have become more complex and numerous, and as the bank has expanded
into more strategic services such as M&amp;A advisory and equity, client
bankers have tended to be drawn from more senior ranks within JP Morgan.
Says Carnegie-Brown: &quot;A good client banker has to handle all our products
and services effectively, but with our strongest clients they are increasingly
spending time on the new areas we are developing, as the existing areas
can be delivered by our product people. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;A bank relationship should be personal and institutional, but the
difference between an average and a good relationship is if the personalities
connect. And the test is our clients' willingness to call us when they have
a problem and the value they attach to our opinion.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Part of the bank's success is based on its approach to corporate lending.
&quot;I don't share other banks' melancholy attitude that lending has to
be a loss-leader and they will lend only if they can receive a whole range
of other business. For us, credit is a business with its own profit and
loss and makes a substantial contribution to the earnings of the firm.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The fall in margins is less of a concern than the lack of covenants being
demanded by aggressive treasurers. The bank has refused to participate in
certain deals because of the decline in documentation standards. In such
a situation it aims to explain why it will not participate and to maintain
the relationship in other product areas. <BR>
<BR>
The bank's withdrawal from the cash management business is a small blot
on JP Morgan's record, not so much because it decided it was not the most
efficient area for it to be in but because of how a few clients reacted.
&quot;More than a handful were irritated by it,&quot; admits Carnegie-Brown,
&quot;but when we explained what we were doing and why, most accepted it
because their companies need to make difficult choices about where to allocate
resources, which can lead to a change in focus too.&quot; MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;Almost too 'teamy' to be in investment banking.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;The bank we all look up to and try to copy in relationship management.&quot;
<BR>
</I><BR>
<HR>
<H3><A NAME="bankerstrust"></A>Bankers Trust takes emphasis off product
</H3>
To rivals, Rodney McLauchlan has an unenviable task. As chairman of Bankers
Trust's core client committee he oversees the bank's efforts to re-orient
itself into a more relationship-driven firm. <BR>
<BR>
The committee comprises 10 of the bank's most senior executives and convenes
every Tuesday at 9am New York time. Presentations on how the bank has made
progress with certain clients are made and then discussion on the bank's
internal structure and organization ensues. <BR>
<BR>
The derivatives-related problems of 1994 highlighted the bank's weaknesses,
particularly the emphasis on products over clients. Now this is being addressed
with comprehensive training, an emphasis on ethics and etiquette, and a
compensation structure that, according to McLauchlan, &quot;rewards long-term
behaviour by having a large equity component&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Detractors would say that Bankers Trust is one of the only firms that needs
to start doing all this, as almost all the others have been doing it for
years. Such an assertion, however, would overestimate the extent of other
banks' efforts in this area and ignores the fact that Bankers Trust has
a history of good relationships with certain clients, Unilever being the
name the firm likes to drop most often. And no company contacted by Corporate
Finance had anything unfavourable to say about the bank's approach to business.
<BR>
<BR>
The challenge for the bank is to maintain its strength in innovation and
add a greater focus on repeat business from a select group of clients. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;It won't happen overnight,&quot; says McLauchlan, &quot;but the pendulum
is shifting from the extreme position of two years ago. We don't want to
emulate a JP Morgan or a Goldman Sachs; we want to be us. I don't think
anybody has yet achieved the right balance between creativity and relationships.
The firm that gets it right will have a competitive advantage.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The bank is also concentrating on deepening its product range. Already strong
in sub-investment grade bonds, it is trying to build its presence in investment-grade
debt. Until now clients that used the bank's services during the time they
had a speculative rating would use different banks once their credit quality
had improved. Similarly, the bank was at a disadvantage when it tried to
win business from companies that had been downgraded, as it had little history
of working with them. <BR>
<BR>
A greater capability in equities and advisory services is also on the way.
&quot;That takes the nature of the dialogue we have with the client to a
more senior and more strategic level,&quot; says McLauchlan. &quot;Our acquisition
of Wolfensohn shows our commitment to this area.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
He adds: &quot;As the number and complexity of products increases, our relationship
managers should be problem-solvers that understand the impact of a transaction
on a client's business. The emphasis should be 'listen, listen, listen'
and not 'sell, sell, sell'.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In addition to the core client committee the bank has a European advisory
board and a more recently established Asian board. The members include chief
executives from large corporates (including Repsol, National Power, Rh&ocirc;ne-Poulenc,
ABB and Trygg-Hansa) and they meet twice a year. &quot;They help us with
clients in their markets,&quot; says McLauchlan. &quot;They are not selling
for us but are a good contact point for a validation for a prospective client.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
That the European board was founded in January 1991 suggests part of the
bank has long had more than a passing interest in its clients; competitors
that make snide comments, however, will take longer to convince. MB <BR>
<I><BR>
Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;Only cares about products.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;Could bounce back and I hope they do.&quot; </I><BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H3><A NAME="anzplea"></A>ANZ plea is for privileged dialogue </H3>
Did you know that takeover rules in Pakistan allow foreign companies to
buy 100% of a domestic company? Reinhold Heus does. The enthusiastic head
of international corporate finance at ANZ is busy holding a series of dinners
with senior executives of large western corporates to explain to them the
opportunities in emerging markets. He also hopes his recently restructured
bank will be their preferred adviser and financier for this business. <BR>
<BR>
In May ANZ launched its new global corporate and investment banking division,
offering services from trade finance, project finance, Islamic finance,
to leasing and equity. The group focuses on three geographic areas -
south Asia, the Middle East and Australia/New Zealand - and intends
to use its branch network and local knowledge in a more integrated style
than before. <BR>
<BR>
Ensuring that the bank's staff across the network co-operate to make the
new structure work is one challenge. Another is the bank's lack of name-recognition.
Few are aware of what it can offer, particularly in services outside its
traditional core business of commercial banking. <BR>
<BR>
Nor is the bank seeking to be one of a company's core relationship lenders,
although clients that ask for this can obtain it along with a relationship
manager. &quot;Privileged dialogue,&quot; is what Heus and Vijay Sharma,
director of international corporate finance, say they are seeking -
that is, the opportunity to hear and talk about possible investments in
the markets the bank covers. &quot;That is what gives you a crack at more
than the mundane services,&quot; adds Sharma. <BR>
<BR>
So the bank would like to advise on a partner for a joint venture in Oman
or India and hope to go on to finance and provide other services to it.
Says Heus: &quot;Eighty per cent of joint ventures that fail do so because
the wrong partner was selected. We can vet people because we have had financial
dealings with them. And we would always hope to graduate to arranging financing
for the venture. But without the privileged dialogue you can't get to the
joint venture.&quot; MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;A long way to go.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;Emerging market network could serve them well.&quot; <BR>
</I><BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="baeapplies"></A>BAe applies the loans test </H2>
Like all defence-related companies, British Aerospace, the UK aerospace
group, is facing a tough future. Defence spending among developed countries
has fallen in recent years, increasing competition for orders and putting
pressure on margins. Yet when the company announced last month that it was
looking for banks to arrange a $600 million five-year syndicated loan offering
lenders just 17.5 basis points over Libor, there was no shortage of banks
looking to participate in the deal. <BR>
<BR>
That British Aerospace is able to borrow at such tight terms might seem
surprising. Only four years ago the company was over-diversified with interests
in cars, construction and commercial aircraft, its share price was languishing
at about &#163;1 a share, and confidence in the company was low. Thing have
improved since the company sold Rover Cars to BMW in 1994, but the outlook
is still uncertain. <BR>
<BR>
Apart from the paucity of quality borrowers, the willingness of banks to
lend to British Aerospace on these terms is due to the company's tough approach
to the way it uses banks. <BR>
<BR>
David Brent, the company's group treasurer, insists that any bank that wants
to win business from British Aerospace must be willing to put its balance
sheet at the company's disposal. This rule is relaxed for certain trusted
advisers such as Kleinwort Benson, which advises the company on all its
acquisitions and disposals, and certain US investment banks such as Goldman
Sachs. But in all other circumstances the message is clear: participate
in our loans or we won't hire you for fee-earning business. <BR>
<BR>
In line with this policy, British Aerospace has hardly ever used any of
the UK merchant banks to arrange its capital market transactions, because
they did not have capital to back the company. &quot;I was always reticent
to use merchant banks that did not have the balance sheet to commit capital
to the company. Now that they have merged [with commercial banks able to
lend to us], I am much more likely to use them,&quot; says Brent. <BR>
<BR>
Certainly British Aerospace has a lot of business to win. Selling aircraft
to countries all over the world, the company has significant export and
sales financing requirements, often involving complex leasing arrangements.
It has about &#163;1 billion ($1.53 billion) of long-term debt, mostly borrowed
from the capital markets, which requires regular refinancing. <BR>
<BR>
Being a sterling-based company with dollar sales, it also has a lot of foreign
exchange and interest rate exposures to be hedged, not to mention &#163;1
billion of surplus cash. &quot;We are a banking-intensive company so there
is plenty of business,&quot; says Brent. <BR>
<BR>
Most of this business is shared out between the 35 to 40 banks which participated
in the vital &#163;1.5 billion syndicated loan signed in September 1993,
which allowed the company to proceed with its disposal programme at a leisurely
pace rather than having to conduct a fire sale. <BR>
<BR>
Within this group, there is an inner core of four main relationship banks
- Barclays, Lloyds, NatWest Markets and Midland - which handle
the bulk of the company's short-term borrowing and export finance business,
plus a number of US investment banking houses (Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch,
Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers) covering the US capital raising side.
<BR>
<BR>
In theory, Brent tries to parcel out the company's banking business to each
of its lenders as widely and fairly as possible. Almost all lenders receive
some foreign exchange and interest rate hedging business. Export finance
is shared out among the UK clearing banks, and some of the company's Canadian,
German and Asian lenders. &quot;We try to use the same banks for a range
of services to be faithful to the relationship principle, and in general
I think it pays off. It is essential to understand how banks work,&quot;
says Brent. <BR>
<BR>
In practice, however, he tends to use those banks that provide the best
service in each area. Thus, BZW has acted as bookrunner on every single
sterling bond issue issued by the company, whereas almost all of the dollar-denominated
issues have been arranged by Goldman Sachs. &quot;If I do a sterling bond
issue I am probably going to use one of the UK houses,&quot; says Brent,
&quot;and if I do a dollar issue I am probably going to use one of the big
US banks.&quot; Citibank, Chase and JP Morgan tend to win more than their
fair share of foreign exchange business. <BR>
<BR>
Occasionally, certain banks are given the opportunity to try their hand
at products where they have yet to establish a reputation. Credit Suisse,
for example, was chosen as one of the dealers on BAe's commercial paper
programme even though it had less experience in placing short-term paper.
<BR>
<BR>
Typically, however, established lenders to the company are given the chance
to pitch for a mandate but never granted business automatically. &quot;[All
the banks] are shying away from traditional banking areas and trying to
get more fee-earning business,&quot; says Brent. &quot;But I say to them:
'Look, you can't all lead a bond issue. If I am going to do a bond issue
you will be able to pitch for it. But I am going to use the bank that I
think is the best.' We are pretty tough on that score.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Away from product-driven areas of banking, where cost structures and competence
can be easily compared, British Aerospace tends to take a more cautious
approach, trusting only a small coterie of banks to advise it on strategy.
Closest of all is Kleinwort Benson, the UK investment bank that, through
the publicity-shy Tim Shacklock, has established a close relationship with
the company. Says Richard Lapthorne, British Aerospace's finance director:
&quot;Kleinwort Benson knows the company very well, and we turn to them
first whenever we have a problem.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Typically, Kleinwort Benson is hired only to provide strategic advice on
M&amp;A, but on occasions it is also called on to structure difficult transactions
such as the &#163;178 million trombone rights issue that enabled British
Aerospace to bid against GEC for the UK submarine manufacturer VSEL in 1994.
<BR>
<BR>
Another bank getting closer to British Aerospace is JP Morgan, which advised
the company on the 'bankability' of its &#163;1.5 billion syndicated loan
in 1993, and subsequently wrote &#163;100 million of the loan. Morgan is
now used regularly over a wide product range but has yet to break Kleinwort's
monopoly in the strategic advisory area. CO <BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H3><A NAME="bzwtook"></A>BZW took care to consult the client </H3>
When Barclays gave BZW the mandate for lending to large corporates in 1993
it soon became clear that a new approach to relationship management was
needed. &quot;We had some very good relationships,&quot; recalls Graham
Pimlott, chief executive of BZW's merchant banking division, &quot;but we
also had quite a lot of business that was not very profitable.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A loan book of 800 clients in the US and another 800 in Europe had to be
slimmed down. It now numbers about 180 and 140 respectively. The role of
relationship manager was also redefined. &quot;Back then there was a group
relationship executive who was a commercial banker or a credit officer,&quot;
says Anthony Moore, chief executive officer of investment banking services.
&quot;They had to spend too much time administering rather than generating
business, partly because of the complexity of the credit process.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The bank has a two-tier model - strategic (M&amp;A and equity) and
treasury (lending, foreign exchange etc). A separate group looks after the
money transmission business. Relationships are managed by geography, overlaid
with a sector specialization in utilities, telecoms and financial services.
More industry groups may be added. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Can we collapse it into one-tier?&quot; says Pimlott. &quot;Probably
not, because of the breadth of our product range. But you can have any structure
you like, it's how you manage it that's important. The top US houses are
in front of us in this respect because they have been doing it for a long
time.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The new approach started in Europe in the first half of last year and in
Asia in the third quarter. The UK part of the organization is not yet complete.
<BR>
<BR>
Says Moore: &quot;We did not impose the model on our clients, we sought
their reaction and certainly the frequency and quality of contact has improved.
Internally, we have been promoting who our best clients are and getting
the organization focusing on where it can do <BR>
business.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
New clients will come through the specialist industry groups, as well as
the bank's expertise in products such as tax-efficient financing. Others
may be attracted by the stability the bank offers - it is unlikely
to merge with another bank or be taken over. <BR>
<BR>
Says Pimlott: &quot;Clients increasingly understand the profitability of
our business. It is fascinating how people don't shop around. They could
get some services slightly cheaper but what they are after is consistency
during good times and bad.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Adds Moore: &quot;Many companies are fed up with keeping contact with so
many banks and are still honing down their list. They are getting more sophisticated
in what they are looking for and know how to share the business around their
closest banks.&quot; MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;How global are they?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;Very strong. Making great progress.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
</I><HR>
<H3><A NAME="unknown"></A>Unknown territory is ING proving ground </H3>
ING's strength in emerging markets has allowed the Dutch bank to turn relationship
banking on its head - value-added business tends to come before corporate
lending. By having an extensive branch network and being frequently first
on the ground in countries just opening up to foreign investment ING offers
multinationals know-how, information and services in markets where these
clients have little experience. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We want to get a major share of their emerging market business,&quot;
says Jacques Kemp, chairman of ING Bank International. Once the bank has
proved itself to a clients' subsidiaries, head office treasury will often
ask it to participate in more general corporate lending. &quot;We will do
that where we have an strong, overall relationship and it means we can pick
up more OECD business,&quot; says Kemp, &quot;but we already have the more
attractive business; other banks do it the other way round.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Finding solutions to difficult problems in opaque markets can make the bank
something of a hero for many clients. ING, for example, has almost single-handedly
created domestic commercial paper markets in eastern Europe and is now seeking
to make the secondary markets more liquid. This has provided local funding
for foreign subsidiaries of multinationals. <BR>
<BR>
Relationships have been deepened and product capability broadened by the
acquisition of Barings. Local equity offerings in emerging markets may be
a possibility, for example. ING's network provides deeper local knowledge
for cross-border M&amp;A deals and Barings' client list is receiving calls
from ING's treasury products group. &quot;We have been doing a lot of cross-selling
this year,&quot; confirms Kemp. <BR>
<BR>
Some rivals have viewed the bank's strategy of opening branches in remote
locations as too costly and simply a flag-waving exercise. &quot;The purpose
is not to be on the ground, it is to make money,&quot; says Kemp. <BR>
<BR>
It is also a long-term strategy. ING was the first foreign bank to open
a branch in North Korea, for example. Staffed by just three people, it is
not yet profitable. &quot;It serves its purpose; it has made an impact,&quot;
says Kemp. &quot;When the country does open up we'll be there ready for
business and make a lot of friends. We have already received visits from
foreign companies that have come on fact-<BR>
finding trips.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Africa, however, is of less interest. &quot;Apart from South Africa there
is no critical mass there yet,&quot; says Kemp. &quot;Over the next year
our focus is to broaden and deepen product lines and infrastructure.&quot;
MB <BR>
<BR>
<I>Competitor criticism: <BR>
&quot;Aggressive lending will bring trouble.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Competitor compliment: <BR>
&quot;An emerging market powerhouse.&quot; </I><BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H2><A NAME="clydeneeds"></A>Clyde needs to be understood </H2>
Clyde Petroleum has long believed in looking after its bank relations. The
UK oil and gas exploration and production company racked up substantial
losses in the early 1990s but survived, has become profitable again and
continues to impress with its banking strategy. <BR>
<BR>
Net profits for 1995 more than doubled to &#163;26.3 million compared with
&#163;12.1 million in 1994 and losses of &#163;23.4 million and &#163;39.8
million in 1993 and 1992 respectively. The first dividend for three years
was paid in 1994. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;That's delivering what we said we were all about,&quot; says group
managing director Roy Franklin. &quot;It has also gone down well with our
lenders.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Clyde makes the effort to reward the banks that support it. The company
signed a club deal in 1981 and four years later a syndicated loan arranged
by Manufacturers Hanover. Since then Chemical, which merged with Manny Hanny,
has arranged two subsequent facilities, the most recent in November 1995.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;You have got to get the significant energy banks interested in your
business,&quot; says executive chairman Malcolm Gourlay. Last November's
$200 million revolving corporate credit facility was signed with a syndicate
of nine such banks. ABN Amro was given the role of co-arranger, reflecting
the importance of Clyde's Dutch operations. The deal replaced all existing
bank facilities - the 1989 multiple-option facility, the 1993 corporate
credit facility and a non-recourse facility for the Andrew Field in the
North Sea. <BR>
<BR>
The company believes in keeping its core lending banks happy - they
receive most of Clyde's hedging business, for example - but it is not
prepared to pay way over the market price for credit. &quot;There is value
in well established relationships but you have to test to see if they are
being abused,&quot; says Franklin. &quot;However, each time you have a competitive
bidding exercise it is better to have banks that understand your business
than to award the mandate solely on absolute price.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Adds Gourlay: &quot;Each time it is a major exercise and you have to check
the market in the interests of shareholders. We hold restricted competition
and if a bank loses the lead role it will receive a senior position and
some magnanimity from the winner.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
So a Clyde syndicate will contain a majority of banks that have dealt with
the company before, but the selection process is not so rigid as to exclude
any new players eager to establish a relationship with the company. &quot;We're
always keen to get a new one in,&quot; says Gourlay. &quot;It is good to
avoid any geographic concentration. A new player would already have a relationship
with our existing banks and they would introduce it as a new lender.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
CIBC was brought into the club loan in 1981; Chemical and SocGen in 1985;
IBJ in 1989; Bayerische Landesbank in 1995. <BR>
<BR>
Clyde is not the sort of company to come back to the market six months later
to squeeze out a couple more basis points. Says Franklin: &quot;This is
a long-term business and as long as the rates are competitive we would never
consider refinancing just because of a downward blip in the market, particularly
where it takes you into a relationship with non-energy banks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
For advice on acquisitions the company takes a similarly prudent approach.
It often uses no external adviser where it believes it has the resources
to complete the deal in-house. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We'll always consider using an adviser,&quot; says Gourlay, &quot;but
we have a lot of experience in-house. Where you hold a competitive auction
to sell an asset it is helpful to have someone between you and the buyer,
especially when there are peer group companies involved.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In August last year Clyde held an auction to sell part of its interest in
the Gryphon oilfield in the North Sea and used a small firm called Martin
Lovegrove Associates. In February this year it bought all the share capital
of Marathon Petroleum Indonesia and used no adviser. <BR>
<BR>
Two months ago it announced a cash offer of A$172.8 million for Australian
oil and gas group Crusader. On this occasion Clyde used the Flemings Group
- Robert Fleming in London and Ord Minett Corporate Finance in Australia.
Clyde had enjoyed a good relationship with Bill Harrison of Flemings, who
moved from Lehman Brothers about three years ago. &quot;Both Malcolm and
I have a close relationship with him,&quot; says Franklin. &quot;And because
of the limited number of investment banks in London these days a lot of
them have conflicts of interest, so when he moved we saw it as an opportunity
to establish a longer-term relationship with the bank. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We had been looking at opportunities in Australia for about 18 months
and through the Flemings connection I had met the people from Ord Minett.
I had been very impressed with them, so when we decided to get involved
in a public transaction it was better to use the devil you know rather than
the devil you don't know.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
To any bank considering pitching for an advisory role Clyde has clearly
laid out its acquisition strategy. It includes spending an average of &#163;15
million ($23 million) a year on acquiring undeveloped reserves; a willingness
to consider operated and non-operated deals; more deals in the UK and the
Netherlands; and more emphasis on rate of return and payback than net present
value. <BR>
<BR>
A policy of strong long-term relationships also extends to the company's
senior note investors. In January this year Clyde sold a $50 million private
placement via BZW to four US insurance companies, all of which had participated
in the company's previous deal in 1990. That $100 million placement had
been bought by six institutions. <BR>
<BR>
Shareholder relations are now also strong. The company's leaner times were
due to a spate of dealmaking in the late 1980s priced on the expectation
of a rising oil price and to some write-offs in the early international
expansion programme. A reformulated strategy - clearly and frequently
communicated to investors - has brought a new set of shareholders who
have been increasing their stake in the company over the past two years.
&quot;More and more the average acquisition price is below the current price,&quot;
says Gourlay. &quot;In a low-growth, low-inflation environment stockpickers
are looking for a clear strategy. Nobody is expecting real growth in commodity
prices so it's Clyde versus its competitors or Clyde versus a different
sector. You need earnings and dividend growth; Clyde is not selling itself
as a takeover punt.&quot; MB <BR>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.07.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-32</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-191</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.07.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120555 text/html 5969
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:05:06 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 16:54:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5727
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: July 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.07.1a.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.07.1a.html"><b>Relationships in ruins? </b></a><br><font size=3>
The squeeze in lending margins and the willingness of some corporates to
refinance could bring a new crisis in corporate banking. 
<i>Matthew Ball, Charles Olivier, Gwenan Roberts </i><BR><br>

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><BR>
* BP accesses Swift, at last. <BR>

* Corporates flock to Quantum. <BR>

* Myths and mistakes of mergers. 
<BR><br>
<b>Treasury management </b><br>
How Mobil's European co-ordination centre became one of the most efficient
treasuries around. <I>Jeff Carnicelli</I> 
<BR><BR>
<b>Capital raiser </b><BR>
Vodafone's perfectly executed Euromarket debut. <i>Jeremy Adams</i>  
<BR><BR>
<b>Viewpoint </B><BR>
Why the latest report from the US Federal Trade Commission is to be welcomed.
<i>Joe Sims</i><br> 
<BR>
<b>Forecasting </b>
The Italian lira is heading for a fall. 
<i>Jeremy Adams</i> <br>
<B><BR>
M&amp;A monitor </B>
A round-up of last month's deals and developments. <i>Kieran Higgins </i>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>

<B>EuroCP </B><br>
The Euro commercial paper market is 10 years old. It has established itself
as a core financing tool for corporates - and there is more potential. <i>Louise
Mason of BZW </i><br>
<B><BR>
Depositary receipts </B><BR>
Accounting requirements for a US listing are set to ease, so here is a guide
to ADRs for corporate issuers. <i>Jeremy Adams </i><br>
<B><BR>
Balance sheet </B><BR>
Should you give cash back to shareholders?
<i>Kieran Higgins</i> <BR><BR>

<B>M&amp;A FOCUS <BR><BR>

Swedish M&amp;A </B><BR>
Hostile bids and restructuring are in vogue. 
<i>Jeremy Adams </i><BR><BR>
<B>Acquisition strategy </B><BR>
The truth, and innovation, behind Ashanti Goldfield's spending spree. <i>Matthew
Ball</i> <BR>
<B><BR>
European demergers </B><BR>
Continental firms are catching on to strategic splits. <i>
Jamie Barr, James Vaudoyer, Andreas Bartsch, Mario Gianni of Freshfields</i>
<B><BR><BR>

US M&amp;A </B><BR>
Why non-US banks have had a tough time breaking into US financial services.
<i>Lee Meyerson of Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett </i>
<B><BR><BR>
Boutiques </B><BR>
Small-sized deals often require a different kind of adviser. Here are some
of the best.<i>
Euan Hagger </i><BR><BR>
<B>IPOs </B><BR>
How to prepare a private company for a public offering. <i>Richard Witmer &amp;
John Molner </i><BR>
<B><BR>
Sweden </B><BR>
Treasury management at some of the country's most sophisticated corporates.<i>
Jeremy Adams</i> <BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-33</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-160</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1l.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122729 text/html 4448
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:26:29 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:27:05 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4238
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 



<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Exotic customized strategies</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
48</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-34</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B041-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.95/gi.95.12.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174628 text/html 41733
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:45:28 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:14:00 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 41484
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: December 1995/January 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: December 1995/January 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
December 1995/ January 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H2>The king of the castle </H2>
<H4>Steadiness and stability may not set the world on fire, but they ensured
Schroders came top in <I>Global Investor's</I> investment management awards.
Capital, Fidelity, Morgan Grenfell and Mercury also shone. <BR>
Kieran Higgins and Joanna Wrighton report </H4>
Schroder Investment Management (SIM) is the clear winner of <I>Global Investor's</I>
survey of investment management firms. The UK house came top in the global
balanced mandate category and was voted the best manager of Asia Pacific
equity, proving its specialist mettle. Schroders also shone as a manager
of global equity, second only to the Capital Group of the US. <BR>
<BR>
The firm's win is a well-managed team effort, led from the top by chairman
John Govett. Consultants and pension fund managers alike struggle to name
stars in Schroders' universe. &quot;I wouldn't single out one particular
individual, it's a series of successful teams,&quot; is a typical comment.
&quot;Team spirit is part of our business and fund management philosophy,&quot;
confirms Nicola Ralston, managing director of SIM (UK), the UK pension fund
and charity management business. <BR>
<BR>
If investment management is a marathon, it's not the sprinters that win.
The secret of Schroders' success lies in a steady-as-you-go, unfailingly
reliable performance rather than in dazzling returns or a flashy style.
Consistency is enough to put the firm way ahead of its less sure-footed
competitors. <BR>
<BR>
Fellow UK house PDFM was the second most popular choice for a global balanced
mandate, but was still far behind Schroders' lead. Its less comfortable,
more aggressive style just doesn't have the same universal appeal. While
pension fund managers can sleep easy in Schroders' hands, &quot;PDFM will
give you nightmares&quot;, says one consultant. &quot;Over the long term
PDFM will add value and will be a top performer but it will give you a rocky
ride on the way.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Both clients and consultants repeat the same mantra when describing Schroders'
style. Peace of mind is all. One pension fund client gives a typical view:
&quot;Schroders is solid and reliable and we have absolute confidence it
isn't going to do anything silly. We don't want it to be the top investment
manager one year and the bottom the next. We want good, solid, reliable
performance and that's what we've seen.&quot; Not having had a disastrous
period in terms of performance for the past 20 years certainly helps. &quot;It
wins by not losing,&quot; as one consultant puts it. <BR>
<BR>
The figures speak for themselves. Over the last four years Schroders has
had an average total return for UK pension funds of 16% a year compared
with a WM Company upper quartile return of 15.7%. For Pacific Basin equity
over the same period, Schroders' median return has been 33% a year compared
with a WM upper quartile of 32%. And for Japanese equity the Schroders average
return of 15.8% sits comfortably against WM's upper quartile of 14.4%. <BR>
<BR>
Clients do not have to worry about their portfolios being rogue bad performers
in an otherwise good field. &quot;Schroders tends to crunch its numbers
into a relatively tight band. Taking a return for the year you find that
all its funds cluster quite closely around that average,&quot; says Colin
Duck, chief accountant of the Corporation of London Superannuation Fund.
&quot;That eliminates the concern that you can get a bad performance from
a house that enjoys a good reputation.&quot; Schroders manages assets worth
&#163;190 million ($295 million) for the Corporation. <BR>
<BR>
Steadiness and consistency may not sound like the most glamorous of attributes
but they have proved elusive to many of Schroders' competitors. Says the
chairman of a rival UK investment management firm: &quot;I have admiration
for what Schroders has achieved, it's what clients basically ask for and
we are trying to deliver the same. If I could emulate Schroders' achievement
I would be a happy man.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Schroders' formula seems deceptively simple. A combination of stable teams
and a consistent investment philosophy based on research has paid dividends.
Explains Govett, who took over as chairman of Schroder Investment Management
at the beginning of the year: &quot;Important factors in our success have
been keeping teams of people together over a number of years and our keenness
to build up research capabilities internationally.&quot; All helped by being
part of a group that takes a long-term perspective. <BR>
<BR>
A view echoed by Ralston when commenting on the firm's success: &quot;We
have stuck with the investment philosophy through thick and thin and have
been a tremendously cohesive team.&quot; Investment decisions are based
on in-house research which has the advantage of allowing the firm to take
a long-term and consistent perspective, she adds. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Scientific approach</B> <BR>
<BR>
Unsurprisingly for a firm that can boast such a steady investment record,
Schroders looks carefully at the risk-reward profile of every decision.
The approach is scientific. &quot;The success of the process is that lots
of small decisions are taken based on research and that tends to lead to
consistency of performance,&quot; says one consultant. <BR>
<BR>
While more troubled rivals such as Baring Asset Management have suffered
staff losses, people tend to stay at Schroders. This is no accident, says
Ralston, as the firm focuses a lot of attention on pay structure, career
paths and training. Ralston herself has been with Schroders 16 years and
&quot;is only now just approaching the average length of service for a director&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
Stable teams are not only good for the investment process but they also
make for better client relations. Trustees appreciate not having to constantly
get used to new faces. &quot;Schroders is very careful to be consistent
in terms of who deals with your account,&quot; says Anna Smith, pensions
manager at George Wimpey. Schroders manages a global equity portfolio worth
over &#163;400 million for the UK construction group. &quot;The people at
Schroders tend to have been with the firm quite a while,&quot; Smith adds.
<BR>
<BR>
This is certainly true of David Mumford who was a director of Wimpey's account
for 25 years until his retirement a year and a half ago. To ensure continuity,
Richard Cheetham, the fund manager of the account at the time, was promoted
to director of the portfolio. &quot;And they seemed to take a lot of care
when they chose the new fund manager to select someone who would get on
with Wimpey,&quot; says Smith. <BR>
<BR>
The same kind of seamless transition was made when the long-standing chairman
of SIM, Peter Sedgwick, was promoted to vice chairman of Schroder plc. His
replacement, John Govett, was former deputy chief executive of SIM for eight
of his 26 years with the firm. One observer describes Govett as &quot;slightly
dry&quot;, but with strong asset allocation and investment expertise. Govett's
appointment is not expected to herald a new era. &quot;I don't think anything
ever changes at Schroders which is one of its successful ingredients,&quot;
comments one consultant. <BR>
<BR>
Another reason for its success is Schroders' administration which comes
a close second behind performance on pension fund managers' check lists.
&quot;Schroders' administration is superb,&quot; says one client of the
firm. &quot;The relationship with the trustees in our company is good. The
people fit in nicely with our style, they don't talk too much and they keep
the meetings short and sharp.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Knowing when to visit and when to stay away is also a skill Schroders has
acquired. Wimpey's Anna Smith finds the firm has the right amount of contact
as she doesn't &quot;want to see them every week&quot;, and is glad to note
that money is not wasted on excessive corporate entertaining. Colin Duck
from the Corporation of London is equally satisfied: &quot;There is a good
rapport between the management of Schroders and our members. They seem to
be on the same wavelength.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Schroders thinks much of the battle for future business will be fought on
the client services field. &quot;We are gradually turning from a mass production
industry to a client servicing one where attention to detailed client requirements
will separate the best guys from the inefficient ones,&quot; explains Brian
Wood, director in charge institutional marketing. <BR>
<BR>
Few changes, a steady performance and conservative approach could make for
a dull if successful picture. But Schroders can be more adventurous when
the occasion demands, in the specialist equity area, for example. &quot;When
we are given a high-performance brief and asked to take on extra risks that
is what we have done,&quot; says Ralston. &quot;And when we have taken on
a higher risk profile we have achieved a better performance.&quot; It may
not be Schroders' style but the team can manage more aggressive portfolios.
&quot;I would be concerned if that weren't the case,&quot; Ralston adds.
<BR>
<BR>
Wary of being labelled a balanced manager and nothing else, Schroders is
keen to promote itself as a specialist. The fact that the firm was voted
top manager for Asia Pacific equity shows it is succeeding. &quot;We see
ourselves as a group with a lot of specialist skills that we pull together
successfully for portfolio management,&quot; says John Govett, who expects
specialist appointments in the Asia Pacific region and more generally in
emerging markets to be one of the main areas of future growth. <BR>
<BR>
Expertise in individual markets is particularly important in the increasingly
competitive US market. Schroder Capital Management International in New
York manages international portfolios worth around $14 billion for US pension
fund clients. Explains David Salisbury, joint chief executive of SIM and
responsible for the group's international operations: &quot;While the UK
is still dominated by balanced management, US clients have for some time
preferred to hire specialist managers. We tend to stress our specialist
services there more than we do in the UK.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
However, the firm falls down slightly in the specialist arena as a manager
of continental European equity and bonds. Schroders fails to come up in
either category in <I>Global Investor's</I> survey. &quot;Continental Europe
has been an area of relative weakness,&quot; confirms one consultant. &quot;It
has never been disastrous but it has never shone. The bond side has also
been given less prominence.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Salisbury admits continental Europe is less strong than other specialist
areas: &quot;That reflects the fact that we have a particularly strong record
in the Pacific Basin and you can't be that strong everywhere.&quot; But
over the past two years Schroders has been investing in building up its
research capability and teams in Europe, Salisbury adds. <BR>
<BR>
The firm's success in the Asia Pacific region is hard to match. Its research-based
philosophy works especially well in such a fast-growing area. Almost half
of Schroders' 24 offices around the world are in the Asia Pacific region
giving impressive on-the-ground coverage. And it's backed by centralized
expertise in London. Says one consultant: &quot;Schroders has more resources
in the Asia Pacific region than any other firm. It has depth in the region
as well as good people in the UK who add a global element.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A fact that also scores points with clients. Shropshire County Council Superannuation
Fund appointed Schroders in May to manage its &#163;22 million portfolio
in Asia and its &#163;9 million emerging markets portfolio. The firm was
chosen because of its strong house style, its control procedures and &quot;because
of its impressive research facilities in Japan and the Pacific which were
much more extensive than at any other firm we interviewed,&quot; says Beth
Perrins, head of specialist finance at Shropshire. <BR>
<BR>
While Jardine Fleming Investment Management, second-placed in the Asia Pacific
equity category, has complete autonomy from its parent company in the UK,
Schroders' businesses in the Asia Pacific region are firmly controlled from
London. And even though the markets are different from more established
ones, the same investment formula is applied. Explains Jeremy Hill, director
with overall responsibility for the Asia Pacific region: &quot;We are trying
to translate to other parts of the world the Schroders way of doing things.
It's a disciplined process and what we have shown is that this can be applied
to other markets with equal success.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Like others in the region, Schroders has started to manage money for Japanese
<BR>
pension funds. The business is small, around $1 billion of local pension
fund assets is under management in Japan, but growing at a rate <BR>
of over 50% a year. The firm is so keen to expand in this area that a &quot;disproportionate
amount&quot; of marketing is concentrated there, Hill admits. <BR>
<BR>
Despite control being rooted in London, Schroders' operations in far-away
places are not just research centres but successful local operating companies,
Hill points out. And they are staffed by both UK and local employees. &quot;We
use as far as we can local talent and introduce and keep a few people from
the London office all the time to ensure a transfer of technology.&quot;
The firm's global reach is spreading further. It has already opened a &quot;modest
toe-hole&quot; in Shanghai. <BR>
<BR>
Success can bring problems of its own, such as how to sustain the quality
of an expanding business. Warns one consultant: &quot;It's clear that any
fast-growing investment firm -- including Schroders, Morgan Grenfell Asset
Management and PDFM -- have challenges in this area, ranging from building
an appropriate systems infrastructure to career-planning for their professionals.
The history of the UK industry is littered with organizations that have
failed to meet this challenge successfully.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
John Govett admits &quot;the task of managing the business is growing all
the time&quot;. Last year, Schroders' funds under management grew by 9%
to &#163;57.6 billion. However, the problem is tackled by subdividing the
business into different cells. &quot;Each of our client bases are treated
as a separate business and so we can break the task of management down into
different teams which makes it easier,&quot; Govett explains. <BR>
<BR>
No winner can rest on their laurels, especially in an industry where pride
often comes before a fall. And Schroders is no exception. The investment
house is committing more resources to both macro- and microeconomic research
in order to improve asset allocation and stock selection. &quot;We are well
aware that it's all too easy to hit a period of poor performance and so
one can never relax,&quot; says Govett. &quot;It's fatal to think you have
got this business sorted out because you're only as good as your latest
performance figures.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Success can also bring a different kind of problem, such as making the group
attractive to would-be acquirors. Rumours suggest that National Westminster
Bank is interested in acquiring Schroders, largely because of its investment
management business. Although the controlling family shareholders have made
it clear they see the investment bank's future as independent, speculation
is likely to continue for some time. Not least because there are few listed,
independent UK investment banks left in the pot. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Best manager of global equity</B> <BR>
<BR>
The Capital Group -- which goes under the name of Capital Guardian Trust
in North America and Capital International elsewhere -- was recommended
by consultants on both sides of the Atlantic. It came top in the global
equity category and did well in two other asset classes: global balanced
and European equity. <BR>
<BR>
Capital is a familiar name in the US, but in Europe, where the firm has
had a presence since 1962, it is still seen as a slightly esoteric choice.
This low profile is partly intentional. Capital doesn't want to grow too
quickly. &quot;We try to ensure that business comes to us in manageable
amounts,&quot; says James Stewart, director of marketing at Capital in London.
&quot;Otherwise our portfolio managers would find themselves attracting
new business all the time, and that could take their eyes off the ball.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Capital's global resources and the calibre of its people are the two areas
most people single out for praise. &quot;We are impressed by individuals
as well as the team,&quot; says one pension fund client. &quot;Capital's
people are good in the way that they attend meetings where they are willing
to comment on any investment issues, not just the ones we employ them for.
We are also impressed by the good research material they provide.&quot;
The figures certainly look impressive: the firm manages &#163;119 million
($180 million) worldwide and has more than 200 segregated pension fund clients.
And in a business where continuity of investment style is paramount, it
is reassuring for investors to know that Capital's 50 portfolio managers
have a habit of staying with the company: they have an average of 17 years
service with the firm. <BR>
<BR>
Research is the bedrock of Capital's investment process. It spends &#163;45
million a year on research and has a policy of employing career analysts.
These analysts will typically have 20 years of experience dealing with the
companies and people Capital invests in. &quot;We don't believe in promoting
people away from what they are good at,&quot; says James Stewart. <BR>
<BR>
Equally important is Capital's multiple portfolio manager process. All investment
portfolios are run by a team of five managers. These portfolios are grouped
together so that the managers control a slice of each. Capital thinks this
investment structure prevents its managers from being distracted by less
important issues such as investment guidelines. This allows each investment
manager to concentrate on his or her core competence: picking the best-performing
stocks. <BR>
<BR>
Capital's investment managers also have a greater degree of freedom than
many of their counterparts in rival firms. &quot;We don't worry about conflicting
viewpoints,&quot; says Peter Armitage, a portfolio manager at Capital. &quot;What
happens is that when a group of managers all like a particular stock, we
will take a large position in that stock. When only one manager likes the
stock, we will take a small position in it.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Capital has a clear bottom-up approach to investment management. It thinks
there is little value in a top-down macroeconomic style. Moreover, its researchers
argue that by talking to companies they get better and earlier insights
into the prevailing economic climate. &quot;It is this bottom-up approach
that separates Capital from other investment managers,&quot; says one of
Capital's pension fund clients. &quot;Although its portfolio managers have
a reasonable idea of economics, they are more concerned with underlying
value. As such, whether a company is Swedish or French is almost by the
way. They value the stock because it is undervalued, not because of the
country it is in.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Most of Capital's clients that <I>Global Investor</I> talked to were impressed
by both the firm's performance and its investment style. &quot;I like the
calibre of the team and the stability of the organization,&quot; says one
client. &quot;We monitor Capital to pick up on things that might cause concern,
but so far we have been delighted by its performance.&quot; And another
client that uses Capital for emerging markets and global equity says, &quot;Capital
has unlimited resources and skilled people. I'm particularly impressed by
its portfolio construction using multiple managers. Its performance has
been excellent and client servicing has been good.&quot; With comments like
these, it is not hard to see how Capital's policy of attracting business
by word of mouth rather than aggressive marketing has paid off. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Best manager of US equity</B> <BR>
<BR>
Fidelity, the US's largest money manager, was voted the top manager for
US equity largely because of its impressive research capabilities. It also
scored well in the management of European and Asia Pacific equity. <BR>
<BR>
Fidelity's stock-picking style makes it consultants' favourite in the US.
&quot;Fidelity is very strong in US equity. Its style is 100% bottom up
and everything is dedicated to stock selection,&quot; says one admirer.
The firm has around 140 equity analysts around the world providing the basis
of ideas for fund managers. Sixty eight analysts are based in the US with
the remainder in London, Hong Kong and Tokyo. <BR>
<BR>
Says one US client: &quot;What we like about Fidelity is its broad-spectrum
approach. It covers just about every possible area of the equity market
and has been consistent in adding value in the long term.&quot; The firm
is good at individual stock selection and research, the same client adds.
<BR>
<BR>
Pennsylvania State Employees' Retirement System (SERS) is also impressed
by the firm's research capabilities. In September, SERS allocated $100 million
to Fidelity Management Trust as part of a restructuring of the large cap
sector of its composite stock portfolio. Says Joseph Braccia, director of
public markets at SERS: &quot;We picked Fidelity because we believe strongly
in its full research capabilities. Fidelity will attempt to pick the best
stock ideas from all of the individual funds it manages for us. The risk
will be controlled by weighting stocks against the S&amp;P500.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Fidelity's stock-picking expertise comes from a belief in a thorough investigation
of companies. Explains Edward Madden, vice chairman and a director of Fidelity
Management Trust Company in Boston: &quot;One of the strengths we have apart
from size is our belief in visiting face-to-face the companies we are researching.&quot;
The other component of the firm's success is investment in technology. &quot;We
spend a huge amount of money on technology and that assists research. We
track thousands of companies. It could seem as if there's an excess of research,
but the process becomes condensed through technology,&quot; Madden adds.
<BR>
<BR>
People are obviously an important part of Fidelity's success. &quot;We've
been aggressive in hiring young MBAs. We interview at 23 business schools
around the world,&quot; says Madden. But the emphasis on individual rather
than team prowess can make judgment of the group as a whole difficult. &quot;Fidelity
is one of the best managers in the Asia Pacific region but it's built around
prima donnas and it's difficult to see who is doing the good job,&quot;
says one consultant. &quot;I'm never sure whether Fidelity deserves the
credit it gets as the business is built around individuals.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
With $32 billion of non-mutual-fund institutional assets under management
in the US, Fidelity Management Trust Company is now seeking to increase
its management of international assets. &quot;It's a major focus for us.
We are starting to get business but it's been slow to begin,&quot; says
Madden. Since he expects 78% of plan sponsors in the US to increase their
international exposure next year, the business is there. <BR>
<BR>
Fidelity's foray into the UK pension market had a rocky start but after
a period of poor performance five years ago, Fidelity Pensions Management
in London is back on track. The firm was voted as one of the most improved
investment managers in <I>Global Investor's</I> survey. &quot;In the past
Fidelity was strong overseas and weak in the UK,&quot; comments one consultant.
&quot;Now it has beefed up its recruitment of analysts and managers on the
UK equity side. And company visits in the UK have gone up by a huge amount.
Once Fidelity gets a solid track record under its belt it will be able to
start making some serious beauty parades.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
People problems have also been sorted out. Says Eric Hunt, group pensions
manager and secretary of the BAA Pension Scheme, Fidelity's largest UK client:
&quot;Because Fidelity did lose business in its bad patch there has since
been a shake-out of underperforming managers. The management has been strengthened
by the appointment of Richard Horlick who seems committed to developing
the UK business.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Horlick joined Fidelity Pensions Management as managing director of the
UK and European institutional business from Newton Investment Management
in May last year. He is confident the problems have been solved: &quot;Our
poor performance stemmed from having an immature research effort in 1990,
so that when market conditions changed there weren't enough analysts to
covering sufficient numbers of stocks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The weakness was addressed by increasing the number of research staff in
Europe and Asia. &quot;Over the last three years we've had excellent returns
in UK equity for institutional accounts,&quot; says Horlick. On WM Company
figures to 30 September, the firm's UK average is in the top decile over
a rolling three years. &quot;What I would expect to see in the next couple
of years is a rapid growth in the UK institutional business,&quot; Horlick
adds. <BR>
<BR>
At the moment the UK business is still small with just over &#163;1 billion
in institutional money under management. The BAA Pension Scheme has &#163;500
million with Fidelity and is happy being the firm's largest client. Explains
Eric Hunt: &quot;I feel much more comfortable being important to them than
I would being just another big fish swimming around in one of the big four's
pool.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
BAA appointed Fidelity because it liked the firm's unconventional stock-picking
approach. And even though performance hit a bad patch, BAA stayed with the
house: &quot;With the exception of two bad years we have been pleased with
the choice,&quot; says Hunt. &quot;We understand Fidelity's philosophy which
it has consistently followed and it has added more resources to the research
side of the business.&quot; The fact that performance was good last year
despite it being a similar bear market to the one that tripped the firm
up is particularly encouraging, adds Hunt. <BR>
<BR>
Fidelity believes strongly in its approach and is unlikely to deviate from
its value style. &quot;The research-driven process will be the key for fund
management in the future,&quot; says Horlick. &quot;From here stock selection
will be what determines institutional portfolios.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Best manager of European equity and most improved manager</B> <BR>
<BR>
Morgan Grenfell Asset Management claimed two gold medals in <I>Global Investor's
</I>investment manager awards. It won the European equity section and was
voted the most improved manager overall in any investment category. <BR>
<BR>
Even its competitors would concede that Morgan Grenfell is today unrecognizable
as the inconsistent, unfocused performer that it was in the late 1980s.
At that time, the firm's asset management business appeared to be floundering,
especially in the all-important UK pension fund business. &quot;Morgan Grenfell
went through a sticky period in the late 1980s,&quot; says Brian Wigg, manager
of loans and investment at the Norfolk County Council Superannuation Fund.
&quot;It displayed indifferent and inconsistent performance. When we looked
back at what Morgan Grenfell had promised us when we appointed it in 1984,
it hadn't taken us where it had said it would.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The turnaround began in 1990. Most clients date the change from the time
of Keith Percy's appointment in June 1990 as head of Morgan Grenfell Asset
Management. &quot;Since Keith Percy arrived there has been a real strengthening
of investment philosophy that is starting to pay off,&quot; says Neil Barrell,
group pensions manager at the National Australia Group. &quot;Our account
is handled by Nicola Horlick and Keith Percy. They are an outstanding pairing,
supported by some very good people, which is reflected in their performance.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Many pension consultants were also impressed by the reforms Morgan made
to its investment team and have gradually started to put the firm on their
recommended list. &quot;For the past two or three years a lot of consultants
have been directing their business towards Morgan Grenfell,&quot; says one
UK pension consultant. &quot;The arrival of Keith Percy was the first appointment
that prompted our interest. The next step was the appointment of Nicola
Horlick as managing director. Morgan Grenfell brought in people of a certain
calibre who have turned its management around.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
European equity is the asset category for which Morgan Grenfell receives
the most plaudits. &quot;Morgan's performance in European equity has not
only been good, it has been bloody outstanding,&quot; says one pension consultant.
&quot;Morgan Grenfell believes in looking for companies that are off the
beaten track,&quot; says one pension client who uses Morgan for European
equity. &quot;Its research is very strong and its performance has been very
solid.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Morgan Grenfell manages about &#163;6 billion ($9 billion) in European equity,
consistently one of its best-performing sectors. Stuart Mitchell, director
of Morgan Grenfell Investment Management thinks that, in such an inefficient
market as Europe, there is more value in stock selection than in a top-down,
country-allocation approach. &quot;We have had a very consistent investment
strategy which we haven't changed, and most of the team has been the same
for the past five or six years.&quot; says Mitchell. &quot;We concentrate
on individual stocks. We travel all the time in the search for new ideas.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
UK equity is another area that is often cited as a Morgan stronghold. &quot;Morgan's
UK stock selection has been the hot part of the pudding,&quot; says Brian
Wigg at Norfolk County Council. &quot;It has been an upper decile performer
in UK equity since 1990. I like Morgan's stock selection skills, and its
consistent and professional team. It has become more focused on asset allocation
and stock research.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In every area, it is the rigour with which Morgan Grenfell's people build
portfolios based on their research that impresses clients and consultants
alike. &quot;Morgan has got some outstanding individuals who have really
consolidated their investment philosophy into the business,&quot; says Barrell.
&quot;And it is not a case that, if these individuals disappear, Morgan's
performance will fall. They have been imbedding their investment philosophies
into the company over the past five years.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Best global bond manager</B> <BR>
<BR>
Mercury Asset Management (MAM) was voted first in the global bonds category,
thanks largely to the support of UK pension consultants. <BR>
<BR>
MAM's success can partly be explained by its long experience in global fixed
income. It was one of the first investment houses to introduce global bonds
as an asset category when it entered the business 17 years ago. &quot;MAM's
early entry into global bonds is the reason why it is strong in that category,&quot;
says one pension consultant. <BR>
<BR>
Size is also a contributory factor to MAM's success. It is one of the biggest
global bond managers, with about &#163;16 billion ($25 billion) in global
fixed income. &quot;In bonds you have got to have bulk because there is
not a lot of margin,&quot; says Nigel Russell, a consultant at NJR Consultancy.
&quot;The size of MAM's fixed income business gives it economies of scale.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
MAM's other strengths as a global bond manager are the experience of its
people and the depth of its resources. The company employs 20 people in
its global fixed income division, making it one of the biggest teams outside
the US. These employees have an average of 14 years experience of dealing
in bonds, of which six are at MAM. The members of the investment strategy
group which directs the fixed income operation have been together for more
than 10 years. This kind of experience counts in a business like fixed income
where high staff turnover is the norm. <BR>
<BR>
MAM's investment process hangs on its primary research into the bond markets
it invests in. Primary research in this context means visiting all the 14
countries in the Salomon Brothers World Government Bond Index twice annually,
with occasional forays into the more exotic markets of Mexico and the Czech
Republic. &quot;We will not invest in a country that we have not visited
at least twice a year,&quot; says Charles Jackson, head of the fixed income
desk and vice chairman at MAM. <BR>
<BR>
Jackson freely admits that he is not prepared to touch some of the markets
that many of his less risk-averse competitors have rushed into. He is wary
of emerging markets, for example, both because of their volatility and because
of the demands that visiting these markets makes on his time. &quot;A lot
of our competitors invest outside the index and leverage their portfolios,&quot;
says Charles Jackson. &quot;When liquidity is abundant, they may get higher
returns, but at the expense of higher volatility.&quot; MAM's more cautious
investment style seems to have paid off. <BR>
It has outperformed the Salomon Brothers World Government Bond Index by
3.3% annually since 1985 with little added portfolio risk. <BR>
<BR>
This doesn't mean that MAM is afraid to take big positions. The firm is
prepared to deviate quite widely from the index, cutting its losses and
running its profits. &quot;We have quite an unusual approach to bonds,&quot;
says Charles Jackson. &quot;Our sell discipline is very tight, for example.
Once we take a position, we will move very rapidly to cut it back if things
go awry.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Praise for MAM centres on its people and its systems. &quot;It has a big,
strong, well-run team, and has invested a lot in systems,&quot; says one
consultant. &quot;It has a large team of competent people in bonds who are
smart and very focused,&quot; says another. &quot;We like the fact that
it doesn't suffer too many changes of personnel,&quot; says a pension fund
client. <BR>
<BR>
If there is a reservation about MAM, it is that its equity performance has
not matched that of global bonds. &quot;We haven't exactly had a sparkling
performance from MAM over the past three years,&quot; says one pension fund
client who uses MAM for equity. Part of the explanation lies in MAM's separation
from Warburg. &quot;This must have taken the eyes of some of the senior
guys off the ball,&quot; says one consultant. MAM will need to improve its
investment record in equity before it can rival Schroders, the blue-eyed
boy of the UK fund management business, as an all-round performer.
<br><br>  
<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best
global balanced manager</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD> <TD>Schroder Investment
Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD> <TD>PDFM/UBS</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>3</TD>
<TD>JP Morgan Investment Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>4</TD> <TD>Capital
Group</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>5=</TD> <TD>Mercury Asset Management</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>5=</TD> <TD>Morgan Grenfell Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>7</TD>
<TD>Brinson Partners</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>8</TD> <TD>Morgan Stanley Asset
Management</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best manager of global equity</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD>
<TD>Capital Group</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD> <TD>Schroder Investment Management</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>3</TD> <TD>Rowe Price-Fleming International</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>4</TD>
<TD>PDFM/UBS</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>5</TD> <TD>Templeton Investment Management</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>6</TD> <TD>Warburg, Pincus Counsellors</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>7</TD>
<TD>Oechsle International Advisors</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>8</TD> <TD>Bank of
Ireland Asset Management </TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best manager of US equity</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD>
<TD>Fidelity</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD> <TD>Putnam Investments</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>3</TD> <TD>Sanford C Bernstein &amp; Co.</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>4</TD>
<TD>Independence Investment Associates</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>5</TD> <TD>Dodge
&amp; Cox</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>6=</TD> <TD>Wellington Management Company</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>6=</TD> <TD>Oppenheimer Capital</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best manager of European equity</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD>
<TD>Morgan Grenfell Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD> <TD>PDFM/UBS</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>3</TD> <TD>Marathon Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>4=</TD>
<TD>Fidelity</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>4=</TD> <TD>Capital Group</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>6=</TD>
<TD>Baring Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>6=</TD> <TD>Paribas Asset
Management</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best manager of Asia Pacific equity</B></TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>1</TD> <TD>Schroder Investment Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD>
<TD>Jardine Fleming Investment</TD> </TR> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Management</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>3=</TD> <TD>Fidelity</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>3=</TD> <TD>Baring
Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>5</TD> <TD>Morgan Stanley Asset Management</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>6</TD> <TD>Regent Pacific</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>7</TD> <TD>GT
Management</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Best manager of global bonds</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD>
<TD>Mercury Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2</TD> <TD>Morgan Grenfell
Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>3</TD> <TD>AMP Asset Management</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>4</TD> <TD>Fischer, Francis, Trees &amp; Watts</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>5</TD> <TD>Strategic Fixed Income</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>6</TD> <TD>JP
Morgan Investment Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>7</TD> <TD>Brinson Partners</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>8</TD> <TD>Fiduciary Trust Company </TD> </TR> <TR><TD></TD>
<TD>International</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>9</TD> <TD>Kemper Asset Management</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Most improved manager</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD>1</TD>
<TD>Morgan Grenfell Asset Management</TD> </TR> <TR><TD>2=</TD> <TD>Fidelity</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD>2=</TD> <TD>Fleming Investment Management</TD> </TR> </TABLE>
<BR>
<BR>
<H2>Methodology </H2>
To compile these awards, Global Investor spoke to eighty consultants around
the world most of whom were in the UK and the US. Interviews were conducted
by telephone and around 50 consultants stated their preferred investment
management firms in each category. The awards were given on the strength
of consultants' recommendations. <BR>
<BR>
The results of the survey highlight the differences between the UK and US
markets. While there was a great deal of consensus among UK consultants,
the choices in the US were considerably more diverse. The fact that the
UK market is dominated by balanced management and the US by specialists
is also reflected in the scores. Global Investor would like to thank all
the consultants who took part in the survey. <BR>
<p>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="gi.95.12.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-35</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-168</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.95/gi.95.12.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121329 text/html 5545
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:12:28 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 09:21:22 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5287
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: December 1995/January 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: December 1995/January 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue:December 1995/January 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.95.12.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.95.12.1.html"><b>The king of the castle</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Schroders came top in <I>Global Investor's</I> investment management awards
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>CORPORATE GOVERNANCE </b><br>
Winning the vote<br>
When diversification fails <br>
Will shareholders start wielding the big stick at European AGMs?<BR>

<br><br>  
<b>GLOBAL CUSTODY</b><br>
  Custody and the cost crunch  <br>
With rising costs and falling fees, life is not easy for the poor old global
custodian
<br><br>  
 
</td>
</tr>





<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="surv"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra13.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>LATIN BROKERS </b><br>
Rising above it <BR>
Despite major difficulties, ING Baring was voted the best broker in Latin
America 
<BR><BR>
<b>ASIAN SUB-CUSTODY  </b><br>
One up, one down <BR>
Standard Chartered Equitor and 
Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corporation dominate 
Asian Custody 
<BR><BR>
<b>LATIN CUSTODY  </b><br><BR>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
MSCI lends a helping hand | Gold market buzz | Baring loses business |A
kinder, gentler Dunedin | New chiefs at Bankers Trust | To hedge or not
to hedge | The takeoff of Taiwan | Stars in the East | PEOPLE | FOCUS ON
FUNDS
<br><br>
<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
Hoechst appoints Chase | Scottish Amicable appoints Clydesdale | NFC chooses
Chase | AMP appoints Midland | LD Pensions appoints Chase | IN BRIEF 
<br><br>
<b>MOVES</b><br>
Martin Currie and GE win Canadian mandate | Kemper, John Hancock and Morgan
Stanley win | PDFM wins UK balanced mandates | IN BRIEF
<br><br> 
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
Separating noise from signal to make money
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
This month's asset allocators turn their attention just about anywhere outside
the US.
<br><br> 
<b>ECONOMIC VIEW  </b><br>
Why Japan remains a mess
<br><br> 
<b>FUNDS </b><br>
A grey October 
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-36</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-117</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1k.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122647 text/html 4445
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:25:50 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:27:11 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4235
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 



<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Single options</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
76</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
76</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
55</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-37</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B040-112</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.10.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174201 text/html 30762
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:40:32 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 15:43:13 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 30527
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
October 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2>Beware the danger of falling stars</H2>
<BR>
<b>Fund management is the business every bank wants to be in. Steady
revenue. Steady growth. But at the end of August it began to go very wrong for
two of the industry's success stories. Benjamin Ensor and Joanna Wrighton
report on the lessons other fund managers can learn.</b>

 <P> Firms committed to investment banking expect the occasional embarrassment. Deals can
and do go wrong and traders can and do over step the mark. But one business that
was supposed to be immune from these excesses was fund management. The careful
management of assets to fund a pensioner's retirement is not supposed to be racy.

<P> The conservative image of fund management changed in August. In London,
Deutsche Bank found that the fund management business of its subsidiary Morgan
Grenfell had been torpedoed by one of its own fund managers, Peter Young. His
unauthorized investments in unlisted securities not only broke the regulations
and damaged investor confidence in the firm as a whole but may cost Deutsche
&#163;180 million ($270 million).

<P> In Hong Kong, Jardine Fleming Investment Management revealed that its chief
investment officer, Colin Armstrong, had been diverting profitable options trades
from client accounts to his own account for several years.

<P> These revelations raise important questions about controls within the
industry. Morgan Grenfell, in particular, has left a major mark. Few managers can
honestly say "it couldn't happen here". As Dugald Eadie, group managing director
of UK investment manager Henderson Pension Fund Management says: "The thing about
the Morgan Grenfell incident that is particularly distressing is that it is close
to home and difficult to see how you could have stopped it. But until we know the
facts as to what motivated Young and what controls he had to side-step it is
difficult to comment. But it isn't a question of having more controls. It's to do
with the way Young and Armstrong were managed individually."

<P> The most important lesson of the scandals is that no firm is immune from
unforeseen shocks. Risk management is as much about early discovery as
prevention.

<P> As a senior manager at one London investment manager says: "One of the
lessons that should be learnt is that if anybody has any doubts, or a compliance
officer digs into something and is fobbed off, they should redouble their efforts
instead of going away. People have got to learn that inquiry, test and inspection
are part of this business. It is an irritant but you have to get on with it."

<P> People in the industry seem more surprised by the irregularities at Morgan
Grenfell than by those at Jardine. Although it is impossible to assess controls
from outside a firm, Morgan Grenfell gave the appearance of having procedures
that were in line with best practice. "A month ago I would have said that Morgan
Grenfell was a firm with good controls," says one competitor. "I would like to be
able to say that we can smell out rotten apples, but it is very difficult to do."

<P> Young, former manager of the Morgan Grenfell European Growth Trust and the
European Capital Growth Fund, set up a complex network of holding companies,
apparently to disguise his large investments in lesser-known high-technology
companies. His unlisted positions may have been overvalued. But there are several
reasons to think that Morgan Grenfell ought to have known what was going on
before August 21, when Morgan Grenfell says it was first told by the Investment
Management Regulatory Organisation (Imro) that it was looking into the
funds.

<P> In July, the annual report of the European Growth Trust showed several
breaches of the regulations, including three breaches of the Securities and
Investments Board's rule 5.14, which states that a fund may not own more than 10%
of a single company. These breaches were noted in the report by the trust's
outgoing trustees, General Accident, and undersigned by Graham Kane, chief
executive of Morgan Grenfell Unit Trust Managers. Kane has made it clear that
Young had been told to reduce the concentration of his portfolio and his exposure
to unquoted stocks during the summer of 1996.

<P> That Young was able to set up a network of holding companies raises obvious
questions about management supervision at Morgan Grenfell. The firm's controls
clearly failed. Each of Young's investments had to be approved by both Michael
Wheatley, Morgan Grenfell's head compliance officer, and Glyn Owen, chief
investment officer for Europe and Young's boss.

<P> The fact that the holding companies and many of the securities traded by
Young were unlisted may explain why his irregular investments were not noticed by
Morgan Grenfell's informal peer group review system. Fund managers in each
department meet once a month to discuss their portfolios. They have to defend
large or unusual positions to their colleagues on the basis that if the
investment is a good one all the portfolios should benefit from it. One of the
reasons Young's large unlisted positions may have passed unnoticed is that many
of his colleagues have no experience of unlisted stocks. Morgan Grenfell does not
allow managers to invest institutional money in unlisted stocks.

<P> But people outside the firm had their suspicions. Says one European fund
manager: "You could tell something was afoot. In the last quarter of 1995 the
fund's performance kept on going up while the other European funds were going
down. I rang up the firm and asked about the fund's investments and found that it
had 8% invested in Finnish telecoms group Nokia. These shares fell by almost half
in the last quarter of 1995. I thought the fund's performance should have been
dropping faster than it did." And at the beginning of the year when other
European funds were going up the funds managed by Young were going down.
"Everybody knew Young had these funky little companies in Scandinavia but we knew
no more than that," adds the same manager.

<P><b> Valuing unlisted stocks</b> 

<P> Investigations into the funds managed by Young are focusing on the valuation
of unlisted Scandinavian securities bought by Young. According to UK regulations,
fund managers do not have to have unlisted securities valued independently. This
means that a fund manager can misvalue unlisted holdings as long as his trustee
and broker agree with him.

<P> The apparent problem with this at Morgan Grenfell has prompted other UK fund
managers to review their procedures for valuing unlisted securities. "We are
looking at taking a more pedantic approach to both the valuation of unlisted
securities and the procedures for investing in them," says Henderson's Eadie. "In
cases where we do own unlisted securities we have to know why we have them. It
would be difficult for a fund manager to invest in unlisted securities without
someone else knowing what they are doing and why."

<P> As far as valuations of unlisted securities are concerned, Eadie admits this
is a problem. "Quite often we have to rely on what is effectively the director's
valuation," he says. "But whenever possible we get a third-party source."

<P> Baring Asset Management is also reviewing its procedures for valuing unlisted
securities. Says Mark Skinner, managing director of the unit trust group at
Baring: "Before this happened, we tried to obtain an independent valuation from
someone not affiliated to any part of the group."

<P> Now the firm is considering only buying securities for which independent
valuations are available. "In the light of what's happened you may be in a
position where you would say we only take independent valuations," says Skinner.
" If someone then decides to stop valuing a company what do you do with it? The
answer is that you will probably have to sell it."

<P><b>Weaknesses at Jardine</b>

<P> Armstrong's abuses at Jardine Fleming seem to hold fewer lessons for other
fund management firms than the problems at Morgan Grenfell. "The Jardine Fleming
incident could not have happened here," says the managing director of one London
fund manager. "It's quite impossible because trades can't be left unallocated and
they can't be allocated to an individual manager."

<P> Jardine Fleming is open to the criticism that by not having centralized
dealing and allowing late allocation of trades, the firm left itself open to the
sort of abuses perpetrated by Armstrong.

<P> Because there was a delay between the execution and the allocation of trades,
Armstrong was able to favour his own account and the high-profile Ninja fund to
the detriment of other accounts. Since many of the dealings were in options,
whose prices are highly volatile, their value had often changed substantially
between execution and allocation.

<P> Sometimes late allocation is unavoidable. As one chief investment officer
explains: "If you are buying five million shares for 10 clients and you have set
a price limit, sometimes instead of buying five million you only manage to buy
50,000. Do you give each client 5,000 or do you give one client 50,000? Imro has
some guidance notes on that, but clearly your clients do not want to receive
hundreds of contract notes as you build up a position. So we do have positions
that are not booked until the following morning, but there have to be very good
reasons for it." At Jardine late allocations seem to have been sufficiently
routine so as not to attract notice.

<P> Jardine was also slow to react to the first warnings of potential problems.
The firm's compliance department identified deficiencies in procedures for
allocating trades as early as December 1993, more than two years before
Armstrong's resignation.

<P> Jardine has since acted to correct these weaknesses. Among the first steps
taken by Mark White, who was appointed chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming
Investment Management on the resignation of Robert Thomas as managing director in
April 1996, was to institute centralized dealing desks in Hong Kong and Tokyo.
Once a firm has centralized dealing, collusion between the dealer and the fund
manager is needed for abuses to occur.

<P> The common thread that links Morgan Grenfell and Jardine Fleming is that the
troubles struck on the retail, not the institutional side of the business,
although one institutional account at Jardine Fleming was involved. This may not
be a coincidence. "Mutual funds are subject to less monitoring than institutional
funds," says one consultant. "Mutual funds publish their portfolios once every
six months. Nobody knows what is going on. Institutional accounts are usually
scrutinized once a month so there is more risk for those who try to pull a fast
one."

<P> The lack of strong brands in retail fund management has meant that successful
individual managers have become valuable marketing tools for fund management
firms. Their status means that they may be subject to less scrutiny than other
fund managers. "There is a tendency to leave these managers alone," says one
consultant.

<P> Both Armstrong and Young were stars. In 1993, the year the
irregularities at Jardine began, five Jardine funds achieved returns of over
100%. The flagship JF Pacific Securities Trust, managed by Armstrong, increased
its assets from $83 million to $420 million. Last year the two Morgan Grenfell
funds managed by Young were the second- and third-best performing funds investing
in European equities, according to Micropal. "There's a feeling of
<I>Schadenfreude</I> [delight in others' misfortunes]," says one head of European
equities at a rival firm. "When we went to see Independent Financial Advisers
they had almost always invested in the Morgan Grenfell European Growth Trust and
they were very happy. Then it all went wrong."

<P> Managing retail funds also creates different pressures. Institutional clients
generally focus on medium-term performance, judging their investment managers on
a three- to five-year basis. Retail investors have short-term, performance-driven
objectives. Although the details will not be clear until Imro completes its
investigation, Young may have suffered from the pressure to maintain a top
performance. His behaviour was reported as becoming increasingly erratic.

<P> Investment management firms should seek to nip potential problems in the bud
by watching for signs of stress among their fund managers. "We take the question
of personal stress very seriously," says Henderson's Eadie. "We run stress
management courses for our staff and if an investment manager is showing signs of
stress we can point them in the direction of counselling. We recognize that as
another factor in the equation."

<P><b>Damage to business</b>

<P> In all cases of trading irregularities the most serious loss to the firms
involved is likely to be more than fines payable to regulators and any
compensation due to clients. It is likely to be the loss of reputation and future
business.

<P> Jardine's reputation has certainly suffered. Hong Kong investors are said to
have become wary of placing new funds with the firm since the compliance
problems first became public in the spring of 1996. And at least two fund
management clients have sacked Jardine Fleming as a result. The damage to
Jardine is worsened by the fact that Armstrong was the firm's chief investment
officer and cannot therefore be portrayed as a rogue trader.

<P> Armstrong's actions are also an acute embarrassment to Robert Fleming, the
British investment bank which owns 50% of Jardine Fleming. Three Fleming fund
management subsidiaries in the UK were fined &#163;100,000 each for failing
adequately to supervise portfolios they had delegated to Jardine Fleming. In fact
it was a compliance officer sent by Robert Fleming to Hong Kong who 
first blew the whistle on Armstrong's trading practices.

<P> As Imro's chief executive, Phillip Thorpe, said of the Jardine investigation:
"Imro's investigation has amply illustrated the danger of firms paying
insufficient attention to the responsibilities that arise when they delegate
business to another entity. Other firms would be well advised to review
thoroughly their own arrangements."

<P> There seems to be a cultural difference between the London firm and its Hong
Kong affiliate which will have to be bridged. The appointment of White, formerly
investment director of Flemings' retail fund management arm Save &amp; Prosper,
as Jardine's chief operating officer was reportedly greeted by one Jardine fund
manager as "revenge of the nerds". Robert Fleming has since repatriated over
&#163;700 million in assets which were temporarily being managed by Jardine in
Hong Kong to London.

<P> Morgan Grenfell has so far successfully portrayed Young as a loner and his
actions as an isolated incident. Provided that no one else at Morgan Grenfell is
implicated, the firm should retain its reputation for integrity, and so its
institutional business. "If there was more than one person involved, we would
have to look at Morgan Grenfell very carefully," says Richard Thorpe of the
Shropshire County Council Superannuation Fund. "It would worry us if it turned
out to be more than just one rogue trader."

<P> Morgan Grenfell's standing with its clients also seems to depend on the
existing management structure remaining in place. In particular, many clients and
consultants mention the confidence they have in Keith Percy, Morgan Grenfell's
chief executive. Five years ago Morgan Grenfell was not in good shape, lagging
its competitors with poor investment performance. Since then it has built a
strong reputation with clients and, crucially, consultants. One consultant
reports not a single breach of his clients' guidelines. "We come across breaches
of guidelines quite frequently. These usually occur because managers tend to do
the same for all the portfolios they manage with the same mandates and don't look
at the idiosyncrasies of each portfolio's guidelines," says Nathan Gelber of
Stamford Associates (UK), a London consultancy. "We reviewed our records and
there was not a single breach of guidelines by Morgan Grenfell in six years. We
are pleasantly surprised by that. On the institutional side there was no
indication of similar lapses of control." If Percy goes, consultants and clients
are likely to review the firm.

<P> Deutsche Bank has done much to reduce the damage by investing over &#163;180
million into the affected funds to provide liquidity and relieve them of some of
the unlisted securities. There was a danger that the value of the funds would
fall further as the they were forced into a fire sale of their assets. By
injecting cash, Deutsche made sure that investors with the confidence to remain
invested would not suffer a fall in the value of their assets.

<P> "Deutsche Bank has set quite a precedent as has Fleming. It is a question of
size. There is clear comfort derived from the fact that the parent with the
pocket is willing to step into the breach," says one pension fund consultant.
Although the bank had no obligation to support the funds with cash, it had a
clear business interest to do so. The investment saved many small investors from
undue losses and thus helped preserve the reputation of Morgan Grenfell. Nor is
the capital injected by Deutsche necessarily written off, because the assets that
Deutsche effectively purchased from the funds have some value and could
conceivably be sold for more than the value at which Deutsche bought them.

<P><b>The importance of parentage</b>

<P> Deutsche's actions will inevitably prompt pension fund trustees to consider
the capital strength of fund management companies. Although companies have no
legal obligation to compensate for losses in funds they manage, it is clear that
many small or independent fund managers do not have the kind of capital or the
ability to borrow required.

<P> "I think there will be a period when there will be a natural inclination to
look at parentage," says one fund management director. This may be
dangerous. "There is a temptation to invest with an institution that will make
good the damage," says Gelber. "I think this is a bit unhealthy because there is
no formal obligation for the parent company of the fund manager to intervene."

<P> Indeed as a senior manager of a bank-owned fund manager says: "Do the parents
of those organizations accept that there is a risk and a liability involved in
these activities which they may not have been aware of previously? Presumably
Deutsche Bank might have thought twice about owning a fund management business in
London if somebody had warned it of what could happen. The economics of the
business do not permit owners to put their hands in their pockets every time this
sort of thing happens."

<P> Companies without the backing of a large parent like a bank or an insurance
company have little alternative but extra vigilance in their controls. "The
smaller companies have to make extra efforts to ensure that their procedures and
practices are such that abuses cannot occur," says one consultant. "And then
convince their clients that they have done that." 

<P><b>Who guards the guards? </b> 

<P> Unit trust trusteeship is a sleepy backwater of the securities services business. But, when the Morgan Grenfell
affair blew up on September 3, alarm bells began ringing. Though reluctant to
talk about the affair, trustees admit that the unusual investment style of Peter
Young has forced them to take a hard look at their own relationships with fund
managers and review their potential liabilities.

<P> Morgan Grenfell and the Royal Bank of Scotland can claim to have followed the
letter of the rules. But what has emerged is that Morgan Grenfell was aware of
Young's unusually high level of investment in unquoted securities and the level
of concentration in the trust's top ten securities and was already taking steps
to remedy the situation.

<P> At a meeting with Independent Financial Advisers at the Chartered Accountants
Hall in the City of London on September 19, Graham Kane, head of Morgan
Grenfell's retail division made this clear.

<P> The responsibilities of the trustee are clearly set out in the Securities and
Investments Board's Regulations for Collective Investment Schemes 1991.

<P> A failure of the fiduciary duty of trustee and fund manager means they may be
jointly liable for any claim of negligence and jointly responsible to report to
the regulator, the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (Imro), for any
breaches of SIB rules.The rules state it is the duty of the manager to take all
reasonable steps and exercise all due diligence to avoid the property of the
scheme being invested contrary to any provision of part 5 of the regulations
(which outlines the regulations regarding authorized and unauthorized
investment). It is the duty of the trustee to ensure the manager is compliant.

<P> In this case Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and the trustee, the Royal Bank
of Scotland, can claim that the pre-listing rule extends the definition of an
approved security to private equity stakes in companies that are expected to make
an initial public offering of their shares in the next 12 months. This rule seems
set to change.

<P> "The Morgan Grenfell Asset Management affair has shown up the fact that this
provision is open to abuse. I think the SIB will find themselves under a lot of
pressure to close what looks like a loophole," says the managing director of a
leading London fund manager.

<P> Given this loophole, under existing regulations Morgan Grenfell and the Royal
Bank of Scotland did not necessarily have a duty to inform Imro of Young's large
investment in unquoted securities. But it is the duty of manager or trustee to
report to Imro if either discovers a pricing discrepancy of greater than 0.5%.
The process for pricing unquoted  securities is also open to abuse given that it
is not incumbent on either the trustee or the manager to attain an independent
valuation.

<P> Though imperfect, the current rules are clear. The trustee has a duty
carefully to study the steps and procedures the manager has gone through to
establish a valuation. For listed securities the valuation is the best available
offer price of a security for a transaction in normal market size on the most
appropriate exchange. For unquoted securities the valuation is a reasonable
estimate of a buyer's price.Imro has issued guidance on appropriate price checks
by the trustee. It contemplates four full audits of pricing systems and controls
by the trustee a year, with more detailed and frequent attempts when errors come
to light.

<P> The Morgan Grenfell line is that even though it was concerned about the level
of investment in unquoted securities, Young was engaged in a "skilful and
deliberate programme of circumventing and evading controls." Neither General
Accident, trustee of the European Capital Growth Trust until July, nor the Royal
Bank of Scotland "rang any alarm bells" according to Kane.

<P> What should concern trustees is that if Deutsche Bank had not offered to meet
any liabilities that emerge, the trustee and manager could have found themselves
in court. A lawyer comments: "Apportionment of responsibility between a manager
making a mistake and a trustee that fails to detect the mistake is difficult."

<P> What trustees will be asking is whether an annual fee between one and four
basis points is worth the potential liability.  <B><I>AC</I></B>

<TABLE BORDER=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><FONT COLOR=#FFFFFF>UK trustee companies by
value of funds </FONT></TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD
ALIGN="LEFT">Trustee</TD> <TD>Value of funds ($ million)</TD> <TD>Market
share</TD> <TD>No. of funds</TD> <TD>Market share</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal Bank of Scotland</TD> <TD>33,170</TD>
<TD>20.1%</TD> <TD>353</TD> <TD>22.4%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD
ALIGN="LEFT">Lloyds Bank</TD> <TD>27,944</TD> <TD>16.9%</TD> <TD>349</TD>
<TD>22.1%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Citicorp</TD>
<TD>20,485</TD> <TD>12.4%</TD> <TD>123</TD> <TD>7.8%</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Chase Manhattan Bank</TD> <TD>19,189</TD>
<TD>11.6%</TD> <TD>134</TD> <TD>8.5%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD
ALIGN="LEFT">Clydesdale Bank</TD> <TD>15,517</TD> <TD>9.4%</TD> <TD>89</TD>
<TD>5.6%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bank of Scotland</TD>
<TD>15,155</TD> <TD>9.2%</TD> <TD>172</TD> <TD>10.9%</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Midland Bank</TD> <TD>13,354</TD> <TD>8.1%</TD>
<TD>159</TD> <TD>10.1%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal
Exchange</TD> <TD>6,210</TD> <TD>3.8%</TD> <TD>40</TD> <TD>2.5%</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">General Accident</TD> <TD>5,813</TD> <TD>3.5%</TD>
<TD>44</TD> <TD>2.8%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Coutts
&amp; Co</TD> <TD>4,296</TD> <TD>2.6%</TD> <TD>36</TD> <TD>2.3%</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Sun Alliance</TD> <TD>1,891</TD> <TD>1.1%</TD>
<TD>22</TD> <TD>1.4%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bankers
Trust</TD> <TD>1,553</TD> <TD>0.9%</TD> <TD>42</TD> <TD>2.7%</TD> </TR><P> <TR
ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">SG Warburg</TD> <TD>772</TD> <TD>0.5%</TD>
<TD>7</TD> <TD>0.4%</TD> </TR><P> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Barclays
Bank</TD> <TD>70</TD> <TD>0.04%</TD> <TD>8</TD> <TD>0.5%</TD> </TR><P> </TABLE>

<P><b> The unlikely pariah </b> 

<P> Peter Young is an unlikely catalyst for an
investment management scandal. He shows no signs of the arrogance often
associated with star fund managers and his career started as an actuary, not a
profession of risk-takers.

<P> Young graduated from Oxford University with a degree in mathematics before
training as an actuary. He joined life assurance company Equity &amp; Law in 1980
as a bond analyst, later becoming an investment manager specializing in
continental European equities. In 1990 he joined Mercury Asset Management before
leaving to join Morgan Grenfell Asset Management in 1992.

<P> Colleagues at Mercury say that Young did not work well in the firm's
team-based culture. "Young didn't fit in with our style. We tend to emphasize the
team approach and he was more of an individual," says one fund manager at
Mercury. Commenting on Young's departure from Mercury the same manager says: "He
obviously felt he could do better somewhere else and that's not normal. He wasn't
a huge loss."

<P> When <I>Global Investor</I> interviewed Young earlier this year, he admitted
that he was more of an individual than team player. "Consensus fund management is
a bad thing and often results in extra bureaucracy. It can end up in perverse
decisions where people panic at the bottom and pile in at the top of stocks.
Individuals make more rational decisions over time than a group of people ever
would," he said.

<P> Young also explained that short-term volatility was expected in his funds.
"With the unit trust we know from experience that people don't sell out because
of short-term price falls so we don't tend to worry too much about having
exposure to securities that could fall in the short run. Provided we are
confident the price will have recovered within a year we know the unit 
holders will sit through it," he said. "You can get much bigger returns if you
are prepared to have a bigger exposure to those kinds of situations. If you
try to avoid any kind of price volatility you end up giving up potential
return and having much higher turnover."

<P> With hindsight it is questionable whether the decisions Young made were
rational. For a long time he was thought to be an investment star and a risk
taker whose big bets paid off. Now he is being portrayed as a rogue trader. It
remains to be seen which view is right. "Most people have a different view of
Peter Young than they did three weeks ago," says Stephen Chance, managing
director of brokers Fiba Nordic Securities. "But you have to be careful not to
jump to conclusions. Peter has been quoted as saying that he is being made a
scapegoat."  <B><I>JW</I></B>

<BR><BR><BR>
</table>
<nobr>
<a href="gi.96.10.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-38</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-239</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.10.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121034 text/html 5827
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:09:36 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 15:41:01 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5583
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: October 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: October 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: October 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.10.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=3>
<a href="gi.96.10.1.html"><b>Falling stars</a></b><br>

Compliance problems at Jardine Fleming and Morgan Grenfell involving star
fund managers have caused severe embarrassment. Both companies are sending in the
fire-fighters to rescue their businesses

<BR><I>Benjamin Ensor, Joanna Wrighton and Andrew Capon</I>
<P>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<B>PENSION REFORM</B>

<Br><b>Boom time for the capital markets?</b><BR>
As developed countries privatize their pension systems, retirement savings should rise and with that
demand for investment. What are the implications for the world's capital markets?

<BR> <I>Desmond MacRae</I>

<P> <b>MARKETING</b>

<BR><b> Winning ways with insurance companies</b><BR>
Many fund management firms are seeking mandates for the external management of insurers' assets. But
insurance companies say their assets need different skills to pension fund
management

<BR><I>Brian Zlotnick</I>

<P><b>SETTLEMENT</b>

<BR><b>The US prepares for same-day settlement</b><BR> 

The move to T+3 in the US has been achieved relatively painlessly. The next move will be to
trade-date settlement. How are fund managers, brokers and custodians preparing
for the shorter cycle?
<P>
<b>Directory</b> <BR>  
Asian custody directory 1996

<P><b>Regulars</b> 

<BR>
<b>UPFRONT</b>

<BR> Invesco in talks with AIM | Fraud at MD Sass | Munder takes stake in
Framlington | A new order in derivatives | Defined contribution, less benefit? |
Bond Peps a poor credit | Marketing on the Internet | Cedel launches new risk
management system

<P><b>CUSTODY</b>

<BR> Citibank wins Commercial Union and Robeco | First Chicago recommends Northern
Trust | Refuge appoints Barclays | Northern Trust introduces MasterSource |
Midland wins in Dorset

<P><b>STRATEGIC INVESTOR</b>

<BR> Sandy Nairn: seeking value the Templeton way

<P><b>FUNDS</b>

<BR> Mexico faces new crisis

<P><b>PRACTICAL DERIVATIVES</b>

<BR> How sector options can be used for defensive strategies in the US equity
market

<P><b>QUANT SHOP</b>

<BR> Craig McCauley of Bankers Trust's Global Investment Management division
reviews the long-term return and diversification benefits of international fixed
income

<P> <b>ASSET ALLOCATION</b>

<BR> Watching the US Federal Reserve

<P> <b>IN THIS ISSUE</b>

<BR> <b>Fund launch data</b>

<BR> <b>Depositary receipts</b>

<BR>
<b>Supplements</b> 
<b> European Brokers Survey<BR>
Investment Guide to Russia </b>

</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-39</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-95</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1c.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122314 text/html 5241
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:22:23 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:36 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5031
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Top banks ranked by volume only*</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
1995</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total (US$bn)</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
311.17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland </TD>
<TD>
250.87</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
183.25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
160.48</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
154.1</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
127.05</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
126.2</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Enskilda</TD>
<TD>
111.57</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Swiss Bank Corporation</TD>
<TD>
103.49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
81.81</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<p>

*This table lists the totals, in billions of dollars, obtained from the two questions: (i) What is your 				
annual turnover in foreign exchange and (ii) What percentage of your annual FX activity in all 				
currencies do you place with the 10 banks/counterparties you use most? Each respondent lists its 				
top 10 banks in order of the percentage of its total turnover that they receive each year. Using these 				
percentages and the total turnover figure supplied, each bank will score a certain volume of 				
business with that respondent. These volumes are added up to give the scores seen in this table. For 				
example, Citibank's score shows that, out of a total respondent volume of $3.04 trillion, Citibank 				
received more than $310 billion - or more than 10% of the total.				

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-40</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-207</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1f.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122441 text/html 4501
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:23:46 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:10 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4291
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Emerging market research</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
141</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
47</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>


<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-41</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-27</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1a.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122231 text/html 3703
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:21:23 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:59 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3493
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=3><B>
How will EMU affect your job?</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
1996*</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Per cent</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
1</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
EMU will make it easier</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
46</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
2</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
EMU will make no difference to it</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
42</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
3</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
EMU will make it more difficult</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*First-time ranking</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>


<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-42</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-60</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1b.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122256 text/html 5577
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:22:01 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:29:46 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5367
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3><a href="cf.96.09.1.html"> EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3></a>

<P>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Treasurers' top FX banks*</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
1995</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
1</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
1</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Citibank</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
439.17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
2</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
5</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
341.87</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
3</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
4</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Chase Manhattan=</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
308.25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
4</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
-</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
220.48</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
5</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
3</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
209.1</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
6</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
2</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Bank of America</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
181.05</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
7</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
6</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
180.2</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
8</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
9</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Swiss Bank Corporation</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
131.49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
9</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
-</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Enskilda</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
129.57</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
10</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
-</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
Barclays</TD>
<TD ALIGN="left">
112.81</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>


<P>

*Respondents were asked two questions: (i) What is your annual turnover in foreign exchange and 						
(ii) What percentage of your annual FX activity in all currencies do you place with the 10 banks/ 						
counterparties you use most? Banks score points in two ways: in straight volume terms (the 						
percentages of the turnover are added to give a cumulative volume score - see volume table) and in 						
top three placement terms (see placing points table). The overall table is the sum of the two scores.<br>						
*In this table and elsewhere the 1995 position given for Chase Manhattan refers to the higher of 						
the rankings achieved by Chase and Chemical Bank respectively in last year's survey.						


<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-43</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B040-184</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.05.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174330 text/html 104039
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:41:42 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 27 Jun 1996 16:39:04 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 103807
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: May 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: May 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
May 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2><A NAME="small"></A>Is small beautiful?</H2> 
<H3>
<A HREF="#small">Is small beautiful?</A><BR>
<A HREF="#table1">Global custody survey 1996</A><BR>
<A HREF="#understanding">Understanding the global custody survey</A><BR>
<A HREF="#table2">Total assets under custody worldwide</A><BR>

<A HREF="#custody">Custody over the decade</A><BR>
<A HREF="#systems">What price systems? </A><BR>
<bR></H3>

<H4>If present merger activity continues, just four or five global custodians
may rule the industry. But this year's survey suggests the Goliaths have
a lot to learn from their smaller rivals in terms of customer service. The
real losers are in between, in no man's land. Tim Hyam reports. The survey
was conducted by James Featherstone.</H4>
When Brown Brothers Harriman and Royal Trust sandwich Mitsubishi Global
Custody, Morgan Stanley and Pictet &amp; Cie at the top of the rankings,
it is clear that assumptions of a global custody cartel driving the small
players out of business are premature. Customers, asked to show their level
of satisfaction with their custodians 
are happiest with the smaller banks that must win business by level of service
not scale of operation. Clients of the larger institutions seem more ambivalent.
<BR>
<BR>
Interviewed, these clients, many of whom are large cross-border investors,
express their concern that the latest mergers and acquisitions have disrupted
services and broken long-standing and valuable business relationships. They
worry that the big custodians, with less competition, may raise fees, which
have fallen for the past five years. And, most worrying of all, they ask
whether lack of choice may mean they cannot get specialist services they
need. They fear they may have to pay more for an impersonal service that
is less well suited to their needs. <BR>
<BR>
At first glance these worries seem unjustified and the poll results strange.
It may be true that the custody business will consolidate. But surely this
consolidation is good news for clients not bad. After all technology is
crucial for quality custody services, and big custodians that have created
economies of scale should be able to afford far greater investment in systems
than smaller competitors. They should also be able reduce prices if these
economies can be scaled up further. <BR>
<BR>
As if to prove this, even though the customers of small banks seem to be
happier with the service they receive, the big banks are still winning plenty
of business. For instance, Chase Global Investor Services had a record year
for new business in 1995. Recent wins include mandates for $37 billion of
mutual fund assets from the Vanguard Group; for $12 billion-worth of assets
from the State of Texas Public Employees Retirement System; and, in Europe,
for the $2.8 billion assets of the pension fund of German chemical company
Hoechst. <BR>
<BR>
These wins came after the merger with Chemical, which made Chase the biggest
custodian, was announced. They suggest that bigger funds feel they need
a big custodian to handle the size of their orders. <BR>
<BR>
Howard Yata, a consultant at Wilshire Associates in Santa Monica, California,
explains: &quot;As US pension funds increase their levels of non-US investment,
they will want to use a custodian with a global network.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Some larger US funds feel they need to use a big custodian. Some big funds
also want to use big custodians because these funds value technology more
than smaller funds. And, comments from respondents to <I>Global Investor</I>'s
10th annual global custody survey suggest, bigger custodians will take more
care of their bigger clients. <BR>
<BR>
And, according to the giants, it's not just US institutions that want the
comfort of working with a large, global custodian. They say that that is
the future in Europe too. <BR>
<BR>
James Economides, global product manager for custody at Citibank in London,
says: &quot;I break the industry down by geography and sector. In Europe
over the next 10 to 15 years the asset pools will grow as pension funds
get bigger and there will be more incentive to increase their volume of
business to create economies of scale.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Personal relations </B><BR>
<BR>
So what of Brown Brothers Harriman and Pictet? Unexpectedly, these smaller
firms are thriving at the same time as the largest of their kind. Firms
like these prove that not all clients believe size and technology are everything.
One reason for thinking that the small custodians have as much chance of
surviving as the big is that the process of the mergers and takeovers has
upset clients. Many buyers say they value the relationship with the custodian's
staff at least as highly as its technology. Respondents to the survey say
high turnover of staff at larger custodians has made it impossible for clients
to build relationships. And the big banks can be inflexible. <BR>
<BR>
Commenting on the Bank of New York, a US survey respondent says: &quot;It
is a very large organization that is cumbersome to deal with. Too few employees
are empowered to act as the bank is highly structured with long and separate
divisional chains of command.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Tom Perna, executive vice-president at the Bank of New York, thinks this
criticism misplaced: &quot;We have a very flat chain of command. That is
one of the things we tout when selling our services.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But this type of criticism is getting louder. Another respondent, based
in the UK, says of a different big custodian: &quot;By the very nature of
the organization, it is sometimes a little arrogant and inflexible with
individual clients, which in the whole scheme of things are apparently insignificant.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
At Morgan Stanley Trust, head of marketing in custody Anthony Feenick says
the firm has won business because of disruptions to services: &quot;We have
experienced a lot of traffic related to mergers. People are rethinking their
relationships because of the consolidation.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Smaller custodians seem to be able to offer better relationships because
of their size. One UK buyer which uses 15 custodians for funds valued at
$52 million explains: &quot;The big institutions need to comply with a set
procedure because of the big volume of business they deal with. If the custodian
receives 30,000 faxes a month, it needs to process them by a fixed procedure.
Smaller custodians can be more flexible. You can call them up five minutes
late and they will still settle the trade for you.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Another UK investment manager says: &quot;There is a danger of the big custodians
becoming faceless, for smaller clients at least. My feeling is that the
smaller players will be able to survive, just as small securities houses
have survived after the Big Bang.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Iain Harding, secretary of the Scottish Investment Trust in Edinburgh which
manages &#163;1 billion ($1.5 billion) of assets, says: &quot;We have a
small number of staff but they have years of experience. We want to have
high-quality people at the other end too. Technology is less important for
us because we have low turnover. Smaller custodians such as Brown Brothers
Harriman sell themselves on offering a personal service and small funds
may prefer this sort of service to using a custodian that can handle huge
volumes, especially investment trusts such as us.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Andrew Green, fund administration supervisor at UK firm Guinness Flight
Global Asset Management, which uses 11 custodians, emphasizes the inexperience
of some staff he deals with at big custodians: &quot;Staff turnover has
meant that in effect the client has to train the custodian contact. But
smaller custodians often know all the quirks of their clients.&quot; 
<H4>Wise to specialize </H4>
Being able to offer flexibility is not enough by itself to ensure smaller
custodians' future. Not all funds value flexibility as highly as technology,
regional networks or specialist services such as stock lending, derivative
and multi-currency reporting, or on-line proxy voting. So how can smaller
clients get a share of the business big enough to make sure they can carry
on in the industry? <BR>
<BR>
The answer is to specialize. Custodians will win fund managers' business
by finding a niche in which they can develop a better service than that
of the big custodians. Richard Humes, head of global custody marketing at
Pictet &amp; Cie in Geneva, says: &quot;Niche is the fashionable word at
the moment.&quot; But, he says, finding a niche is not merely a question
of providing fewer services. &quot;Custodians still need to provide a wide
range of services for their clients. It is in the targeting of such clients
where different custodians may establish niches for themselves. I do not
think you will see Swiss banks such as Pictet going after big US pension
funds although we do have many international clients. Pictet has always
provided custody for its own asset management business. With investments
in over 80 countries, we are well placed to service the fund management
industry. And being a Swiss bank means that we can meet the reporting and
accounting needs of Swiss pension funds.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Humes agrees that the effects of consolidation on the industry have been
overstated: &quot;There will be more consolidation. But don't be surprised
if new players come into the market. For all the complaints that custodians
make, there is still room for growth in this industry.&quot; To illustrate
his point that consolidation does not spell disaster for smaller players,
Humes points out that the number of custodians in <I>Global Investor</I>'s
survey has stayed more or less constant throughout its 10 years, despite
numerous mergers and takeovers in that period. 
<H4>Targeted services </H4>
The custodian that kept its clients happiest this year, the survey shows,
is Brown Brothers Harriman. Like Pictet, Brown Brothers Harriman directs
its services at a certain group of clients: it concentrates on the needs
of mutual funds. Kristen Fitzwilliam Giarrusso, senior manager in the global
securities services group at Brown Brothers Harriman, says: &quot;We plan
to keep pursuing our specialist niche. We pursue the more difficult side
of custody, such as emerging markets risk management and derivatives services,
rather than trying to be simply a processing shop. We aim these services
at global mutual funds, and other global portfolios that require the same
level of service. We do not believe a custodian can be all things to all
people.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Specializing has helped Brown Brothers Harriman concentrate on the quality
of its service. One UK fund manager described it as the &quot;Rolls Royce
among custodians&quot;. It regains the number one spot it occupied in <I>Global
Investor</I>'s survey two years ago but lost to Chase last year. <BR>
<BR>
A similar focus is evident at Morgan Stanley Trust where president Fred
Walsh says the custodian is also keen to provide the highest quality service.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;We have a clear strategy of concentrating on quality. We think that
that is the best way to gather assets,&quot; he says. Walsh sees Morgan
Stanley as an exception to the specialization rule because the custodian
is able to draw on capital, systems and a global network - elements
provided by other parts of the firm, such as its large and top-tier investment
banking and asset management arms.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Aiming for a smaller group of clients could help Brown Brothers Harriman
to increase its assets under custody. Consolidation in the mutual fund industry
is expected to accelerate in the next few years. With its good reputation,
the custodian should be able to win the extra assets that consolidation
will bring to the clients it already has. Consolidation among mutual funds
should help Brown Brothers Harriman to win business in another respect.
The custodian may also win business from funds that have become very big
after a merger and want to diversify their risk. 
<H4>Regional specialities </H4>
If specializing in providing for a particular type of client improves the
quality of service, then the winners from such specialization will be the
investment managers and plan sponsors, so long as there is a custodian specializing
in the services they need. Brown Brothers Harriman is aiming at the US mutual
funds, while the big US custodians pick up the US pension funds. <BR>
<BR>
Some custodians in others regions have a different take on specialization.
These custodians start by trying to pick up local business, and then extend
this expertise to international investors that want to invest in that region.
Royal Trust, the Canadian custodian with about $250 billion in custody assets,
has been one of the most successful exponents of this strategy. <BR>
<BR>
Carolyn Vose, director of marketing in global securities services at Royal
Trust in Canada, explains: &quot;The strength and foundation of Royal Trust's
business is in Canada, where we are the leading provider of custody services
to pension funds, mutual funds, institutional pooled funds and insurance
companies. Internationally, we are not trying to emulate the strategies
of US mega-players. We do not try to be all things to all people around
the world.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Vose says that because custody is a core business for Royal Trust, the bank
has had money to invest in specialist services, which it is extending to
clients in Asia and Europe. &quot;We have developed derivatives reporting
since almost half of large Canadian pension funds use derivatives. Once
we had developed a derivatives support service for Canadians, we could offer
it to international clients.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Royal Trust has also developed international securities lending and compliance
services. &quot;We have a flexible securities lending service that accepts
a wide range of collateral. This flexibility attracts borrowers, which is
in turn good for lenders. We also offer a service in which we act as principal,
allowing lenders to take advantage of our Moody's Aa2 credit rating.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
In the UK, Midland Securities Services is specializing in UK and European
clients. Terence McCaughey, head of Midland Securities Services, explains
his strategy: &quot;Now our main concern is to bed down our &#163;150 billion
($225 billion) of new business and make sure that the operation is 100%
Crest capable. Once Crest comes in and the paper is out of the way I can
concentrate on the meaty business of offering a specialized UK product.
I want to concentrate on my market and to fatten my value product by offering
administration services.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
McCaughey believes technology is important -- he aims to have Midland ready
for Crest from its first day of operation on July 15 -- but he says: &quot;I
believe custody is fundamentally a people business. The big clearing institutions
have such large volumes of business that they have to make their services
as standard as possible. At the other extreme are custodians such as Midland
that offer a high degree of flexibility.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
McCaughey says his approach will win him business from European clients.
Such a view is backed up by Thomas Abraham, a consultant at US firm PanVisers
in New York state: &quot;We are going to see the emergence of new cross-border
funds, especially in Europe. I do not see anything that compels the new
investors to follow the US custodians. It seems premature to say that everyone
is going to put their funds with a custodian such as Chase or State Street.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The approaches to specialization of Royal Trust and Midland resemble each
other in that they both offer services over and above core settlement activities.
But some small custodians may be able to carve a niche by offering a cheap,
simple service. Such a service will appeal to smaller funds that do not
need to have daily reports or a 24-hour service -- and that do not want
to pay for it. <BR>
<BR>
Abraham adds that smaller custodians can get around high technology expenditure
by paring down their service into a few areas. &quot;Smaller custodians
can work with clients to find different ways of distributing data. Many
users do not want to use the work stations that they need to link up with
bigger custodians' proprietary systems,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
This vanilla method of survival will not be an easy route for custodians
at first, since the big custodians will be able to cut fees because of the
economies of scale they create. But, again, the winners should be the investment
managers. By concentrating on the basic services custodians should be able
to please clients such as the UK survey respondent who said: &quot;We would
like to see custodians getting the basic services right.&quot; Smaller custodians
that provided a no frills service would create competition and help keep
fees low. Patrick Cangiano, vice-president at fund manager Arnhold &amp;
S Bleichroeder in New York, which has $42 million-worth of assets under
management, believes that these custodians could have a place in the market,
adding: &quot;What worries me is not so much deterioration in quality of
service but an increase in fees and a lack of choice. Competition is the
most important thing.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Small custodians may be able to cut costs by using alternatives to the proprietary
systems that most custodians use. Abraham says: &quot;Soon banks will realize
that distributing information using proprietary systems is a thing of the
past. It is too expensive and it does not work. Custodians will turn to
alternatives such as Bloomberg or the Internet.&quot; 
<H4>Technological alternatives </H4>
John Guidice, a consultant at Buttonwood International in the US, says use
of the Internet will spread into custody from areas such as account reporting,
which some funds already make available on it: &quot;The evolution of the
Internet represents a paradigm shift in the securities services industry.
Long-standing distribution channels are being destroyed. These changes will
work through to the core custody services. Reporting is the most obvious
way, but also there is the possibility of using the Internet for trades
and even settlement.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Custodians are approaching the idea of using the Internet cautiously. Guidice
says: &quot;They are worried about two things: access and security.&quot;
That custodians are worried about these aspects is unsurprising. Anyone
who has used the Internet knows how slow it can be and until security features
are fully developed, the Internet will continue to be a hacker's paradise.
<BR>
<BR>
The main advantage of using the Internet would be that it would be cheap.
Technology is a big expense for custodians, and smaller players find it
hard to keep up with the investment required. Custodians will need to make
entry costs for their service as low as possible to compete, and the Internet
may enable them to do this. The Internet would also make it easier for funds
to work with more than one custodian because they would not have to deal
with different proprietary systems  <BR>
<BR>
At Morgan Stanley Trust, president Fred Walsh says the custodian will keep
up with bigger players' expenditure on technology because the custody operation
will be able to use the same system that was developed for the whole bank.
<BR>
<BR>
He says: &quot;We have advantages in technology, management and capital
because we are able to draw on strengths in the whole firm and not just
in custody.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Feenick adds: &quot;In technology, for example, we have 1400 staff across
the firm.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
One way or another, smaller custodians are likely to survive. But that they
will survive does not mean the industry will not change. <BR>
<BR>
At Citibank James Economides foresees an intriguing change in the structure
of the industry: &quot;The big custodians will provide private-labelled
services to smaller custodians. The big custodian would supply the service,
which the small custodians would pay for. It would be like a big company
making corn flakes for a supermarket's own brand. We already offer subcustodian
services to all the main custodians. Now we are looking to offer this wholesale
service in local markets.&quot; 

<H4>Wholesale custody </H4>

The big custodian would provide the technology in such a wholesale arrangement,
and benefit from the increased turnover; the smaller custodian would benefit
by being able to offer the extra services to clients, focusing on client
relationships. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The private label custodians would look for the staff that will jump
through hoops for their clients,&quot; says Economides. &quot;These niche
players would be able to be more flexible. The difference between the big
custodian and the niche player is like the difference between a production
line car and a hand-made one.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Economides insists that Citibank will still be a main provider of retail
services -- &quot;people will still want to buy production line cars,&quot;
he says. But the idea that custodians will provide wholesale services for
local providers opens up the possibility of the big custodians offering
a truly global product. <BR>
<BR>
Some European clients of the big US banks complain that until now these
banks' services were US-oriented. With a wholesale service, the big custodians
could concentrate on the aspects of the service that are common to all markets,
and leave the smaller player to cater for clients' idiosyncrasies. <BR>
<BR>
Smaller custodians too will offer wholesale services. Mitsubishi Global
Custody, which becomes Union Bank of California Global Custody after the
merger of its parent, Mitsubishi Bank, with the Bank of Tokyo, specializes
in offering a wholesale service to clients. &quot;We do not market our services
to pension plans; we work with financial institutions, mainly other banks,&quot;
says Janet Potter, vice-president in custody at Mitsubishi in San Francisco.
&quot;We can provide a wide range of services, but we allow the client to
tailor the service to its particular needs. We work independently with each
client.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Potter says that Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi is now deciding whether to expand
the operation into a global wholesale network. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;It is not decided yet, but it is possible that network operations
in Europe, Asia and Australia will be merged into a single network. This
is the strategy that Citibank employs. Alternatively we may continue a strategy
of limited integrations, like State Street,&quot; she says. <BR>
<BR>
The idea that smaller custodians could concentrate on relationships while
the big players provide a wholesale service clearly fits in with the idea
that the small custodians can survive by offering flexible relationships.
But some believe that this specialization makes no sense. <BR>
<BR>
Perna at the Bank of New York says: &quot;I always smile when I hear flexibility
mentioned because it is in the eye of the beholder. Frankly, I do not think
wholesaling works. Smaller banks will take these steps because it will reduce
costs. But I see it as temporary only.&quot; Perna adheres to the view that
the small custodians have little chance of surviving into the next century:
&quot;There will be a very small number of global custodians, and the only
true global custodians will be from the US. Only they have the base from
which to expand.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The smaller global custodians may have more staying power than Perna expects,
if they are able to specialize in the ways discussed. Midland's McCaughey
is outspoken in expressing this view: &quot;I think it is very much a US
view that there will be only a four or five custodians a few years down
the line. All the US custodians think it will happen, but they tend to behave
like sheep. UK institutions tend not to follow each other slavishly.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Specialization is changing the idea of what a global custodian is. Some,
such as Citibank's Economides, believe that &quot;global custody involves
cross-border assets that are non-domestic for the custodian. You cannot
compare cross-border processing with domestic.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But at Midland, McCaughey says: &quot;From a UK perspective, we do not have
to make a distinction between global and domestic custodians. We do not
take the same view as the big US firms. The custodians that call themselves
global custodians are predominantly US custodians; of the $3 trillion in
assets at a big US custodian, about $2.7 trillion are US assets. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Basically there are four types of custodian. You can provide domestic
custody for domestic funds; domestic custody for foreign funds; foreign
custody for domestic funds; and foreign custody for foreign funds. I have
enough business here in the UK for me not to want to set up an operation
in Germany to service Japan. If the big US custodians think this is necessary,
that is their decision.&quot; 

<H4>The real losers </H4>

Consolidation will continue. Mergers and takeovers at the holding company
level will result in the merging of custody operations, as was the case
with Chase's merger with Chemical. Some smaller custodians will probably
sell their businesses to bigger players, but a mass withdrawal from the
industry is unlikely. <BR>
<BR>
There will also be geographical rationalizations. &quot;I think that to
the extent that there is consolidation it will be localized, in France and
Spain for example,&quot; says Abraham of PanVisers. These markets have great
potential because of the expected increase in pension fund assets in them.
<BR>
<BR>
What do the changes in the structure of the industry mean for investment
managers? The result for investment managers and plan sponsors should be
good. The main trend in the custody industry today is specialization. This
trend should mean that investment managers and plan sponsors can shop around
for the right services at the right price. They will also be able to use
different custodians for different services, and in doing so diversify their
assets to reduce risk. <BR>
<BR>
The results of <I>Global Investor</I>'s survey show that clients are benefiting
from specialization. The top five custodians for customer satisfaction are
all specialists. This trend may mean that in a few years' time, the important
distinction will not be between big and small custodians, but between all-service
players and specialists. <BR>
<BR>
The real losers are clear from this year's poll. The large will get larger;
the specialists that have a clear customer focus will thrive in their niches;
and the banks in the middle, like JP Morgan, Harris Bank, Bank of America
and NatWest, too large and diverse to specialize and too small to compete
in the race for economies of scale, will disappear. 

<HR><A NAME="table1"></A><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B>Global custody survey 1996</B></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD COLSPAN=2ALIGN="LEFT">Custodian</TD> <TD>Score 1996</TD>
<TD>Score 1995</TD> <TD>Sample (1996)</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">1.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Brown Brothers
Harriman</TD> <TD>69.4</TD> <TD>65.2</TD> <TD>26</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">2.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mitsubishi Global
Custody</TD> <TD>69.1</TD> <TD>64.2</TD> <TD>16</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">3.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Morgan Stanley</TD>
<TD>67.6</TD> <TD>68.5</TD> <TD>19</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">4.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Pictet &amp;
Cie</TD> <TD>67.5</TD> <TD>66.7</TD> <TD>34</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">5.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal Trust</TD>
<TD>64.5</TD> <TD>65.5</TD> <TD>35</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">6.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>63.8</TD> <TD>69.1</TD> <TD>70</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">7.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Midland</TD>
<TD>63.1</TD> <TD>-</TD> <TD>25</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">8.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bankers Trust</TD>
<TD>61.0</TD> <TD>61.4</TD> <TD>62</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">9.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mellon Trust</TD>
<TD>60.4</TD> <TD>61.0</TD> <TD>52</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">10.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Northern
Trust</TD> <TD>59.7</TD> <TD>58.2</TD> <TD>46</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">11.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Lloyds Bank</TD>
<TD>57.8</TD> <TD>-</TD> <TD>13</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">12.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Barclays</TD>
<TD>57.3</TD> <TD>-</TD> <TD>12</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">13.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">State Street</TD>
<TD>57.0</TD> <TD>61.1</TD> <TD>61</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">14.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Bank of
New York</TD> <TD>56.2</TD> <TD>59.7</TD> <TD>43</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">15.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bank of Bermuda</TD>
<TD>55.6</TD> <TD>58.1</TD> <TD>15</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">16.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">Citibank</TD>
<TD>52.6</TD> <TD>62.4</TD> <TD>39</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">17.</TD> <TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Royal Bank
of Scotland</TD> <TD>48.8</TD> <TD>57.1</TD> <TD>17</TD> </TR>
</TABLE> <HR><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=3>US
respondents</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Custodian</TD> <TD>Score</TD> <TD>Sample</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Pictet &amp; Cie</TD> <TD>79.3</TD> <TD>7</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mitsubishi Global Custody</TD> <TD>72.7</TD>
<TD>12</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Brown Brothers Harriman</TD> <TD>69.8</TD>
<TD>17</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Morgan Stanley</TD> <TD>69.4</TD> <TD>13</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal Trust</TD> <TD>68.1</TD> <TD>7</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mellon Trust</TD> <TD>65.4</TD> <TD>23</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">State Street</TD> <TD>65.1</TD> <TD>18</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bankers Trust</TD> <TD>63.8</TD> <TD>23</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Northern Trust</TD> <TD>61.7</TD>
<TD>10</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Chase Manhattan</TD> <TD>59.9</TD> <TD>16</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Bank of New York</TD> <TD>58.6</TD>
<TD>19</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Citibank</TD> <TD>49.6</TD> <TD>9</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Average</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Sample</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">65.3</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">174</TD> </TR>
</TABLE> <TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=4>UK
respondents</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Custodian</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Score</TD>
<TD>Sample</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Brown Brothers Harriman</TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>69</TD> <TD>5</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Chase Manhattan</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>65.3</TD>
<TD>45</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Pictet &amp; Cie</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>64.1</TD>
<TD>8</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>62.9</TD>
<TD>16</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bankers Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>60.1</TD>
<TD>28</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Midland</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>60</TD> <TD>19</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Morgan Stanley</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>58</TD>
<TD>4</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Lloyds Bank</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>57.8</TD>
<TD>13</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Northern Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>57.8</TD>
<TD>28</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Barclays</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>57.3</TD>
<TD>12</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mellon Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>56.4</TD>
<TD>29</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Bank of New York</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>56</TD>
<TD>21</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mitsubishi Global Custody</TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>55.6</TD> <TD>16</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bank of Bermuda</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>54.2</TD>
<TD>5</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">State Street</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>54.2</TD>
<TD>35</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Citibank</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>51.8</TD>
<TD>23</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Royal Bank of Scotland</TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>48.8</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">17</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Average</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Sample</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">58.2</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">324</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE> 


<HR>
<H2><A NAME="understanding"></A>Understanding the global custody survey
</H2>

This year more than any other we have had an enormous amount of feedback
from the market regarding the methodology of the poll. Isn't a hurdle of
just 12 responses too low? Why weight the votes of a small user equal to
those of a large institutional investor? Shouldn't we do separate tables
for the large global institutions and the smaller niche players? And doesn't
the inclusion of importance factors make it impossible to rank the banks
directly against each other? <BR>
<BR>
Because we have had so much interest, this year we are publishing not just
the methodology but also the reasons for it and an interpretation of the
results that can be expected from it. <BR>
<BR>
<I>Global Investor</I>'s survey of the global custody industry is the best
regarded by the users and providers of custody services because it is structured
to reflect the nature of the business. <BR>
<BR>
Each reply represents the views of the respondent on the services of one
institution whom they are using as a custodian. Most replies come from organizations
that use more than one custodian. These organizations send in multiple responses
covering all the institutions they use for custody. Around a quarter of
the replies come from users of just one custodian. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Customer satisfaction ranking </B><BR>
<BR>
In other words, the poll is a customer satisfaction survey: custodians are
not asked to rank one custodian against another directly (though we could
trace each multiple respondent's views through its replies to determine
its top three or five and so on). This means that the top ranked institution
in the poll is the bank whose clients are most happy with its performance.
The bottom institution is the one whose clients, while they still use it,
think its service is least satisfactory. It is important to note that the
poll is not necessarily saying that the market - or the 750 respondents
- believes the top ranked custodian is better than the bottom ranked
custodian. Those who voted the top bank top will only have affected the
bottom bank's ranking if they use both as a custodian and are less satisfied
with one than the other. <BR>
<BR>
This makes it unlike other polls, for example foreign exchange (FX) and
derivatives polls, in which respondents explicitly give their top three
, five or 10 preferred suppliers of the service. These polls give an idea
of the market's preferred suppliers ranked directly against each other.
And the absolute number of responses affects banks' overall score because
no response means no volume transacted. In this poll, as is explained below,
a lack of response does not indicate market disapprobation. <BR>
<BR>
The two methodologies make sense for two very different types of business.
A user of FX services can exercise choice of service provider with every
deal; it uses many different suppliers simultaneously and is in a good position
to judge the services of the different suppliers in the market. Users of
custody services cannot exercise this degree of choice with every deal and
cannot alter a custodial contract at a moment's notice. At a particular
point they may change custodian, but only after they perceive deterioration
or change in the service they receive from existing custodians. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Leading Indicator </B><BR>
<BR>
It is this deterioration or improvement that the <I>Global Investor</I>
poll tracks and it is each bank's trend history that is most important.
Has Bank X's score risen or fallen in the last three years, and has it risen
or fallen relative to its peers? <BR>
<BR>
This seems to have been a good leading indicator in the market. Banks whose
own clients show dissatisfaction with them - recently JP Morgan and NatWest
for example - either change strategy or exit the business. Unbiased
client opinion has to be the best leading indicator for a business in which
mandates cannot be altered overnight - in which a floor of service
quality must be breached for some time or in which a relationship must alter
in some fundamental way (such as through a merger), before action is taken.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Size doesn't count </B><BR>
<BR>
Most other methodologies that we have considered end up using size as a
criterion for success.They might use a weighting system that apportions
scores directly on the basis of the assets under custody of the choices
of the respondent. So an investor votes for five custodians and ranks them
in terms of business volume transacted. Alternatively, they may use an indirect
volume weighting: the votes of larger institutional investors are worth
more than those of the smaller. <BR>
<BR>
In either case they are automatically skewed towards the larger custodians
and end up being proxies for a straightforward table of the world's largest
custodians ranked by assets under custody. In these polls the 'best' custodians
will have demonstrated their 'superiority' by attracting the most assets
under custody. <BR>
<BR>
We do not use this type of methodology for three reasons. First, these figures
are well known and indeed we publish such a table on page 22. Second, the
only value in such a ranking would be that differences between it and the
publicly available rankings by size might indicate customer dissatisfaction
with certain custodians. (In this case the latter would be ranked below
the position their size would suggest they should be.) <BR>
<BR>
However it would be difficult to tell whether these differences were statistical
inaccuracies or true indicators. <BR>
<BR>
Third, by definition such a poll would be inaccurate. The only way for someone
to express dissatisfaction with someone they used as a custodian would be
to vote for someone else, but in this case we should only allow only multiple
respondents to reply to the poll and only to vote for people they currently
used as custodians. This would exclude those institutions that use only
one custodian, since they are in no position to judge one custodian against
another unless they have very recently changed custodian. Next year we may
add an additional question to the questionnaires so that multiple custodians
do directly rank their custodians, but it was not included in the poll this
year. <BR>
<BR>
These reasons aside, we believe that the nature of the custody business
requires a different approach, an approach based on a value-added analysis
of client needs and the extent to which banks satisfy them. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Big versus small</B> <BR>
<BR>
The lack of a weighting by size of responding organization does mean that
a small custodian whose clients are extremely satisfied with it will do
better in the poll than a large one whose clients are dissatisfied with
it. The larger banks may feel that this is in some way unfair, but it is
not. First, the question of whether large or small custodians can best satisfy
users of custody services has never been more hotly debated, and a methodology
that compares them on a level playing field has never been more useful.
Second, it would only be unfair if it were misleading, However it would
only be misleading if it suggested that a major cross-border institution
should put all its custody business with a niche player, specializing in
one geography and unable to handle more than a certain size of player. But
it does not. The evaluation and profiles of the banks in the ranking and
the people who responded on their behalf make clear the distinctions between
the banks ranked and between the kinds of service they can provide. Also
the more detailed tables that follow the main ranking go a long way in helping
explain it. <BR>
<BR>
There is still a point in disallowing custodians with fewer than a certain
number of responses. If only four people vote for a custodian, then we know
this is not a representative sample of their customer base. They would be
excluded. If 10 of the largest customers of a small custodian vote though,
this might be representative. For this reason we have kept the threshold
at what might otherwise be thought of as the low level of 12. We may in
future use different thresholds for different institutions depending on
the percentage of their total assets under custody represented by <BR>
the responses. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Importance factor necessary </B><BR>
<BR>
The fact that custodians are not being compared directly, makes the importance
factor necessary. If the 750 respondents were being asked to rank their
favoured custodians, and were in a position to vote for anybody, then multiplying
that score by an importance factor would make unravelling their actual choice
of the best custodian in each category impossible to discern. <BR>
<BR>
However, since each response is in fact ranking the services of a single
custodian of the respondent, an importance factor removes what would otherwise
be a significant inaccuracy. Without it, the poll would not be a measure
of true customer satisfaction. A bank might score very highly at proxy voting
services, for example, but this may not be important to the client and so
will have very little to do with their overall satisfaction with the service
they get. We are looking at which custodians best serve their customers
needs and so want to avoid skewing the results by allowing <BR>
unweighted responses. <BR>
<BR>
We also want to minimize the effects of people voting in categories in which
they have little or no experience: it is reasonable to assume that a service
marked unimportant will be one the respondent does not use much and so is
one where we, <I>Global Investor</I>, are less interested in his response.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Scoring system </B><BR>
<BR>
Many respondents do not indicate a score in all the categories. This is
either because they are not applicable at all, or because they are of so
little importance they cannot be scored on our scale. Ignored, this would
bias the scores towards those custodians whose respondents filled out more
questions, regardless of whether they indicated that the custodian was doing
a good or bad job. We therefore strip out these blank scores and create
an individual maximum score for every response. Each custodian is then measured
against that maximum possible score, not against <BR>
the maximum score possible if the respondent filled in every question. We
do this as follows: <BR>
<BR>
i. The theoretical maximum score given to a custodian by any respondent
per questionnaire (MAX) is the number of categories x 12 [that 12 is the
highest mark (4) x the highest importance factor (3)]. <BR>
<BR>
ii. The actual maximum possible score given to a custodian by a particular
respondent (MPS) is MAX - (the number of questions not filled in x 12).
<BR>
<BR>
iii. The actual score a custodian gets per questionnaire (ACT) is totted
up from the responses to each question. <BR>
<BR>
iv. The score that goes forward to the table from each questionnaire is
a percentage: (ACT/MPS) x 100. <BR>
<BR>
v. The final score that appears on the main ranking is an average of all
these percentages. <BR>
<BR>
This methodology means that custodians are not penalized for not scoring
in categories in which their clients do not <BR>
use them. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What to expect?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Given the above methodology, banks should consider first what kind of scores
and range of scores they should expect; second what those scores are ranking
and third the significance of absolute position in the table versus any
change in year-on-year scores. <BR>
<BR>
First, the methodology creates a particular expected scoring range. The
percentage and averaging processes will push similar scores together making
the relative strength of customer feeling seem smaller than it actually
is. So the difference between first and second place looks tiny, but that
0.3 percentage points masks a real difference in customer perception and
masks important differences in customer satisfaction levels from category
<BR>
to category. <BR>
<BR>
However at the same time the combination of the 1,2,3,4 scores for quality
and 1,2,3 for importance highlight particularly good or particularly poor
performers: excellent and most important would score 12; poor and important
3; poor and unimportant 1. The extremes of opinion are emphasized. A bank
significantly behind the leading pack has problems: either its services
are of little relevance to its clients or its services are no good, or both.
So the difference between Royal bank of Scotland's score and that of Brown
Brothers Harriman is very significant indeed. <BR>
<BR>
Second, and this is the key to reading the results, a bank that is very
good in certain areas, or which focuses on certain areas, will, over time,
develop a client base of users who think that these areas are important
and, all other things being equal, lose those for whom that custodian's
portfolio of quality services is unsuited. Given the maturity of the custody
market we can assume that this process has largely occurred. Mergers aside,
banks should over time have developed customer bases whose needs match their
services. All banks' ratings should therefore improve steadily year to year.
And we should not expect volatility in the results as each bank's focus
becomes clearer, and its client base changes to reflect those strengths.
<BR>
<BR>
The value of the poll is that this is not what happens. Banks rise and fall
over time. And banks whose scores or positions have fallen significantly
year on year have a problem as do those whose results bounce up and down
unpredictably. The poll will be a particularly effective gauge of the results
of the recent spate of mergers. <BR>
<BR>
Finally, as explained above,no custodian should judge their custody business
solely on their absolute position in one year's poll. What is important
is their long term trend both in score and absolute position; their position
relative to their peer group; and the year-on-year change in position taken
both absolutely and in relation to that peer group. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tailor made reports</B> <BR>
<BR>
However, as with any poll, the only way for an individual bank to learn
the true strength of feeling in its customer base, to learn where its customers
feel the service is good/bad, to learn which services its customers believe
are important and which not, is to commission a breakdown of its own responses.
While keeping the exact identity of the respondents confidential, we will
be able to provide a complete breakdown of respondents by type, size and
geography. We will be able to reveal exactly those areas in which the custodian
is doing well in each client group and we will be able to show which categories
each client group believes important and which they think marginal. 
<I>SB</I>

<HR><A NAME="table2"></A><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=3><B>Total
assets under custody worldwide</B></TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>After 1995 mergers</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2>$ billions </TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Chase Manhattan</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3134</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>The Bank of New York</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3000</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD>State Street</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">2400</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Bankers Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1400</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Mellon Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1000</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Citibank</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">908</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>The Northern Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">550</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Midland </TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">450</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Brown Brothers Harriman</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">270</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD>Barclays </TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">263</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>The Royal Bank of Scotland</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">260</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD>Royal Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">242</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Lloyds</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">178</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Morgan Stanley</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">120</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Mitsubishi Global Custody</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">70</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD>Pictet &amp; Cie</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">55</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Bank of Bermuda</TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">40</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=3><I>Sources: Buttonwood International Group, Global Investor</I></TD>
</TR>
</TABLE> <TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=4>International
mutual fund managers</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Clients</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Score</TD>
<TD>Sample</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Brown Brothers Harriman</TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>72.4</TD> <TD>17</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Morgan Stanley</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>67.9</TD>
<TD>15</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Pictet &amp; Cie</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>67.7</TD>
<TD>13</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Royal Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>67.5</TD>
<TD>21</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Chase Manhattan</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>64.8</TD>
<TD>38</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mitsubishi Global Custody</TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>63.2</TD> <TD>8</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">State Street</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>60.4</TD>
<TD>35</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bankers Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>58.7</TD>
<TD>33</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Bank of Bermuda</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>58.1</TD>
<TD>4</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Northern Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>57.7</TD>
<TD>22</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Mellon Trust</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>57.5</TD>
<TD>29</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Lloyds</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>56.9</TD> <TD>5</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Midland</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>56.3</TD>
<TD>4</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">The Bank of New York</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>55</TD>
<TD>24</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Citibank</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>52.9</TD>
<TD>17</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Barclays</TD> <TD></TD> <TD>47.9</TD>
<TD>2</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>The Royal Bank of Scotland</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2>45.5</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">9</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Average</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">Sample</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">59.4</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">296</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>





<bR>
<H2><A NAME="custody"></A>Custody over the decade </H2>

<H4>Looking at 10 years of the Global Investor poll it is easy to forget
that behind the names are real people, custody chiefs that have shaped the
industry as it has developed from backwater to mainstream. Four veterans
remember. James Featherstone <bR></H4>
<H2>Michael Laughlin </H2>
Michael Laughlin joined State Street in 1982 and was managing director of
State Street London from 1985 to 1987 when he left to join Alliance Capital
Management in New York. He was head of global custody for European clients
and domestic custody in the UK. At Alliance he has overall responsibility
for sales, marketing, distribution and product development. State Street's
global custody service was centred around three hubs, Boston, London and
Sydney. Although not biggest in assets -- Chase was larger -- its $24billion
of assets under custody made it a key player -- which it remains today.
<BR>
<BR>
These days Laughlin has very little dealing with custodian banks and doesn't
much miss the business. &quot;I really enjoyed what I did. I've often said
that the job I had for State Street in London was maybe the best job anyone
could have. But I was an ex-pat and it wasn't going to be the thing I was
going to do for the rest of my life so I moved on. I don't have any negative
feelings about custody, it's just that an opportunity came along to get
closer to the line of fire.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Does he have any advice for State Street? &quot;It's certainly well-positioned
to provide custody and administration, but I'd say stay close to your clients
because things are changing rapidly.&quot; <HR>
<H2>Paul Maloy </H2>
In 1987 all global custody for Manufacturers Hanover was run out of its
London office. Paul Maloy was general manager there from October 1986 until
he moved to New York in 1990 just before the merger with Chemical Bank.
Maloy moved back to the UK in June of 1995 as head of Global Securities
and Trust for Chemical. Now Maloy is the geographic business executive for
Europe, Africa, Middle East and Asia for Global Investor Services at the
merged entity of Chase-Chemical. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The main change in ten years has been the big explosion in custody.
As overseas investment grew in the late eighties a lot of the back office
shops blew up in terms of having processing difficulties. At Manny Hanny
we went from 40 or 50 people to something like 160 in an 18 month period.
Ultimately that expansion of cross-border investment sowed the seeds for
the industry consolidation that is happening today. As for the future, I
think the role of the central depositories will gain in importance as the
business becomes more technologically based. That will help the core processes
to become more like a commodity.&quot; <HR>
<H2>Tom Perna </H2>
Tom Perna was president of the Bradford Trust Company in 1987 when the company's
assets were bought by the Bank of New York. At the Bank of New York he was
in charge of custody. Today he is responsible for all of the Bank of New
York's securities processing businesses world-wide. Perna believes that
the biggest change in the industry has been the massive expansion in the
custody business because of the internationalization of capital. <BR>
<BR>
<B><I>What will be the changes in the next ten years?</I></B> <BR>
<BR>
&quot;I think that more banks will get out of the business, but I don't
think there'll be the kind of dramatic change that we've seen over the last
ten.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B><I>What is the most important issue for custodians now? </I></B><BR>
<BR>
&quot;Being able to make money in the business. And that's driven a lot
of the consolidation.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B><I>What are the challenges facing global custodians today?</I></B> <BR>
<BR>
&quot;More and more the risk in the business has been pushed back on the
global custodian. A lot of that is due to the fact that a lot of the banks
are not monitored carefully enough by the executive management and a lot
of the people running the business have been allowed to provide guarantees
without being properly supervised. That's forced the rest of us who know
a little bit more about what we're dealing with to have to go along with
it because of competition. This was driven largely by many of the second
or third tier players who were groping to stay in the business and would
promise anything.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Does he still expect to be in custody in the next ten years? &quot;I expect
to be working, let me put it like that.&quot; <HR>
<H2>Marshall Carter </H2>
Marshall Carter is one of the big names in global securities services. In
1987 he was head of global securities services for Chase Manhattan, the
culmination of a 15-year career at the bank. He joined State Street Bank
&amp; Trust in 1991 as president, chief operating officer. He became chief
executive officer in 1992. Carter is well-respected in the business having
spent 20 years with two of the largest custodian banks in the world. <BR>
<BR>
Today State Street is one of the big three global custodian banks. It has
$2.3 trillion under custody and $225 billion in managed assets making it
the third largest custodian. <BR>
If the custody business could be said to be cut-throat, then Carter was
well-prepared for it having won the Navy Cross and Purple Heart during his
two-year tour of duty in Vietnam. <HR>
<H2><A NAME="systems"></A>What price systems? </H2>
<H4>Technology spending has become the biggest cost of providing custody
services, but what are custodians spending the money on and what do their
clients want? <BR>
By Benjamin Ensor. </H4>
When JP Morgan surprised the custody business in May 1995 by selling its
global custody operation to the Bank of New York, the most obvious reason
for the sale was that the bank had not invested enough in its systems to
keep up with its peers. Technology investment has become the most important
sign of a custodian's commitment to the business. Banks which are serious
about their custody business routinely cite the size of their development
budgets to indicate their commitment. &quot;Because of the importance of
technology, the budget is critical. It is the leading indicator of the time
and effort a custodian is prepared to put into the business,&quot; explains
Fraser Murray of the London office of Australian consultants Towers Perrin.
<BR>
<BR>
The demands of technology investment have become more onerous in the last
few years as competition has become more intense and clients and regulators
more demanding. No longer is custody an easy revenue stream. &quot;Custody
has seen takeovers because banks have decided that their custody business
is not worth the investment,&quot; says Murray. It is not a coincidence
that JP Morgan's score for automatic transaction processing was by far the
lowest in <I>Global Investor</I>'s 1995 custody survey. Two other withdrawals
from the business, NatWest and Harris Bank, also had weak systems. As one
of this year's respondents put it: &quot;Harris Bank has been left behind
in an industry which has become more systems orientated. Its failure to
respond to our needs leads us to rank it as our least desirable custodian.&quot;
Faced with the obsolescence of their processing systems and the expense
that upgrading would entail, JP Morgan, NatWest and Harris all sold. <BR>
<BR>
Systems technology is vital for custodians. It is the overall computer hardware
and software architecture underlying the service, ranging from transaction
capture in the client's office, through mainframe processing, accounting
and reporting, communications to and from local agents, delivery of information
to the client's office and integration with other custodial services (such
as funds movement and foreign exchange). Investment in custody technology
is driven by three things: basic settlement and processing efficiency, regulatory
compliance and the need to provide sophisticated analysis tools, such as
performance measurement. <BR>
<BR>
Global custody has developed beyond the basic services of settlement, clearing
and safekeeping to what is better described as cross-border securities processing.
Global custody now encapsulates services such as reporting and accounting,
cash management, performance measurement, securities lending and even risk
management, yet it remains a low-margin business. Efficient systems help
to reduce internal costs and improve client service. &quot;It is a size
thing. Custody is essentially a processing business. Economies of scale
reduce costs. A good system improves the performance of the custodian: not
only does the service become cheaper with a strong system, but there are
fewer errors,&quot; says Murray. The aim for custodians is to reduce the
marginal cost of each additional transaction to the lowest level possible.
<BR>
<BR>
However, in the future technology investment will not just be about economies
of scale: custodians are likely to live or die by the quality of their systems.
&quot;All custodians will have the systems in place. The distinction between
them will be what the systems are capable of doing,&quot; says Murray. To
compete custodians need sophisticated and up-to-date systems, which requires
them to invest continually in systems development. This need for continuous
investment in technology favours the larger banks which can exploit their
economies of scale. Certainly superior technology is where the big US global
custodians expect to be able to exploit their size. <BR>
<BR>
Clients are demanding more from their custodians. A marked trend in the
securities processing business is the extent to which funds are outsourcing
their back-office administration. In the US outsourcing first developed
from defined contribution schemes. Individuals tend to take a greater interest
in their pension assets when these are in a defined pension scheme, which
can put a strain on investment management companies and pension plans that
are not geared up to deal with the stream of enquiries. So some have passed
the enquiries on to the custodian. &quot;We have a single platform whereby
Northern Trust can act in the stead of the company in respect of client
enquiries,&quot; says Sheila Penrose, executive vice-president at the Northern
Trust Company in Chicago. &quot;The custodian thus becomes a single source
of information for the pension plan. The outsourcing of defined contribution
servicing raised the question: 'why not outsource the servicing of defined
benefit?'.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The logic of outsourcing is clear. Firms want to invest in their core businesses,
which in finance usually means the front office. &quot;Investment managers
want to specialize,&quot; says Daniel Wywoda, Mellon Trust's newly appointed
head of global custody and trust Europe. &quot;They want their custodian
to act as their back office and middle office so that they can concentrate
on what they are good at.&quot; Many have decided that that does not include
fund administration. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Building systems is expensive,&quot; says Michael Gregson, vice-president
technology at Bankers Trust in Edinburgh. &quot;Plenty of investment managers
used to do their own custody and the fees were included in the investment
management fees, but there has been a tendency to unbundle it.&quot; An
example is UK insurer Scottish Widows, which outsourced its back-office
administration to Bankers Trust's Edinburgh subsidiary the WM Company. <BR>
<BR>
To reduce their costs, investment management firms and some insurance companies
have begun to use their custodians for more and more back-office tasks.
Prudential Portfolio Managers, a subsidiary of UK insurer Prudential which
has given its custody to Midland Bank and Mellon Trust, is typical. It has
hired Mellon to provide the fund accounting for its unit trusts, including
fund valuations, pricing, tax computations and periodic accounting and reporting.
According to Keith Lovett, project manager, the logic is to allow Prudential
&quot;to benefit from an integrated solution for its custody and accounting
requirements and to concentrate on its core business of delivering superior
investment performance for its clients.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The challenge for custodians is to develop a system which can manage these
assets efficiently, effectively and automatically. Custody is still defined
by the basic services of settlement and clearing. However sophisticated
the custodian's services, &quot;if it's not timely and it's not accurate,
it doesn't matter,&quot; as Gwyn Koepke, vice-president, international product
management at the Northern Trust in Chicago, puts it. &quot;Timeliness and
accuracy remain the fundamental business requirement,&quot; she says. Basic
settlement efficiency clearly improves the service to the client by reducing
the number of failed trades, but custodians are also trying to provide basic
services faster. Most are keen to provide better access to their systems,
whether it be via a telephone line, integrated services digital network
(ISDN), E-mail or even the internet. In some markets it may be easier to
connect via the internet than by telephone, although it raises a security
issue. The ISDN network uses large capacity digital telephone lines, allowing
large volumes of data to be transferred between custodians and their clients.
Obviously, better connections allow clients to download more information
more quickly. <BR>
<BR>
The growth of defined contribution schemes in the US also created demand
for immediate position reports. &quot;Investors want to know what their
position is,&quot; says Koepke. US mutual funds want to be able to publish
their end of day net asset value. Such demands have forced custodians to
reconsider how they provide information, because it cannot always be audited.
&quot;We have a policy of best-available information,&quot; says Koepke.
&quot;The typical UK fund manager relies on monthly audited data and wants
to wait until information is final, but other clients are moving to a daily
valuation and want daily pricing.&quot; As yet she says there is no strong
demand for immediate or real-time information. 
<H4>Straight-through processing </H4>
Most are also striving to achieve straight-through processing. Wywoda thinks
it is one of Mellon's strengths: &quot;We pride ourselves on an integrated
straight-through processing. Once a decision is made by the fund manager,
what matters is how good the custodian is at processing the decision and
returning with the confirmation.&quot; Straight-through processing involves
the complete automation of trading and settlement so that there is no need
for manual intervention. Ideally, what happens is that the fund manager
executes a trade, automatically transmits the information to the custodian
which in turn passes it to the settlement house. A confirmation is then
sent back to the fund manager. The fund accounting is also automatic, calculating
the impact of the trade on account valuation which then goes back to the
fund manager. &quot;Straight-through processing is becoming something of
a buzz-word as everybody seeks to avoid data re-handling,&quot; says Wywoda.
&quot;Manual intervention creates too many errors: people have to spend
80% of their time processing and only 20% reviewing their investments -
most of them want it to be the other way around.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But the most powerful imperative to automate comes from shortening settlement
times. In June 1995, the settlement period for international securities
moved to T+3 (trade plus three business days) in many markets including
the US, the Netherlands, Belgium and Canada. Other markets are following
suit. Settlement cycles will continue to shorten as markets move to T+1
and eventually same-day settlement in order to reduce risk. Trade settlement
will have to become automatic as there will not be time for manual intervention.
<BR>
<BR>
Legal and regulatory compliance can also force custodians to upgrade. &quot;In
the UK Crest [London's new electronic share settlement system which comes
on-line in July 1996] may cause some consolidation because it is a big cost,&quot;
says Roland Moss, custody consultant at William M Mercer in London. &quot;You
have to be a member of Crest, which involves upgrading your technology and
interfacing with the system. Systems have to work with Crest because it
drops data in automatically.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Custody is not a one-sided business. Custodians can only automate if fund
managers do so too. This can be a problem. &quot;There are still some investment
managers with old-fashioned systems that are simply not up to date,&quot;
says Moss. &quot;Faxes and postal transfers are increasingly out of date.
Custodians need a direct input from the investment managers.&quot; Custodians
will often install their system in investment managers' offices in order
to get an immediate update of the manager's position. But it can be difficult
to persuade investment managers to move from paper-based to electronic systems.
&quot;Lots of investment managers are still faxing because, as far as they
are concerned, the system works fine,&quot; says one custodian. 
<H4>Standardization </H4>
But investment managers do not necessarily have it easy. Custody is all
about consolidated reporting, but that can be difficult if you have to deal
with 20 or more custodians as some investment managers do. One of the most
basic requirements of a custody system is that there should be a single
data feed, not separate feeds for different assets. &quot;Custody technology
is driven by the need to provide consolidated reporting,&quot; says Wywoda.
The proliferation of custodians is one of the reasons why the master trust/master
custody business developed in the first place: so that the master custodian
can consolidate the data streams. <BR>
<BR>
Many investment managers do not choose which custodian to use, but have
the choice made for them by the pension funds for which they manage assets.
A few investment managers have relationships with over 70 custodians. That
has encouraged the standardization of reporting requirements. &quot;Managers
have been demanding reporting standardization because they are tired of
having to build interfaces that have to distinguish one custodian from another,&quot;
says Northern Trust's Koepke. <BR>
<BR>
Custodians are now expected to be able to accept Swift (Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication) messages and conform to the Industry
Standards for Institutional Trade Communication (ISITC). &quot;Ideally,
any custodian wants to follow the generic standard, so that you don't have
to develop a new system for each new client,&quot; says Bankers Trust's
Gregson. &quot;We have developed Swift reporting in the UK using the ISITC
standard. Because custodians have relationships with many investment managers
and most investment managers have relationships with several custodians,
it is vital to have common standards.&quot; Most custodians are joining
Swift and bringing their reports into line with ISITC. The development of
common standards allows securities processing to be automated, because the
information feeds custodians and fund managers are receiving are in a standardized
format. ISITC standards are being introduced for things as diverse as automatic
reconciliation, foreign exchange and corporate actions. <BR>
<BR>
The Northern Trust's Koepke reckons that, paradoxically, the provision of
standard information is one of the areas where custodians will be able to
distinguish themselves from the pack. &quot;We are trying to get away from
proprietary networks,&quot; she says. Adds Penrose: &quot;Northern Trust
has built its technology so that clients can combine Northern's information
with data from other sources and then use the analytical and accounting
tools.&quot; Banks like Northern are keen to develop tools that can be used
by fund managers to process the information in whatever way the manager
wants. <BR>
<BR>
Strange as it may seem, custody processing involves standardizing information
so that it can then be customized. &quot;There is a dichotomy between a
push towards standardization, so that custodians all speak the same language,
and the push towards complete customization,&quot; says Naomi Solomon, a
vice-president of Chase Global Investor Services in New York. <BR>
<BR>
If technology investment is driven by the need for basic settlement and
processing efficiency, regulatory compliance and sophisticated analysis
tools, it is in the third of these areas that custodians feel they can really
distinguish themselves. This is partly because much of the benefit of improved
efficiency is not felt directly by custody clients, although the custodian
may be able to reduce its staffing costs and eventually the cost of its
services. There are plenty of ways of choosing between custodians. One is
fees. But consultants such as William M Mercer's Moss think that fees are
relatively unimportant to custody clients. &quot;Ultimately, if there are
two custodians providing similar services, fees would play a part, but a
fund doesn't want the wrong custodian.&quot; As fund managers are demanding
ever more sophisticated support from their custodians, fewer custody mandates
are likely to be won on fees alone. 
<H4>Value-added tools </H4>
Many fund managers are now turning to their custodians for services such
as performance measurement, risk management and derivative reporting. It
is in the provision of such sophisticated, or value-added, services that
custodians like to say they are concentrating their investment. Some of
the big US custodians have undoubtedly developed very sophisticated systems
around buyer requirements. Having provided the basic information on securities,
many custodians are now trying to develop analytical tools for their clients
so that they can process that data. &quot;The challenge for global custodians
is to provide clients not just with the ability to see their assets and
value them, but to slice data in as many different ways as the client chooses,&quot;
says Simon Murray of custody consultants Thomas Murray in London. Custodians
have developed software, or tool sets, to enable their clients to access
the data they want and to process it in as many different ways as they like.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Custodians are by definition sources of a wealth of data,&quot; says
Chase's Solomon. &quot;This distinction is important because the days of
clients receiving canned data from their custodians are over. Custodians
today must drive data down to the client sites so that clients can configure
it to suit their needs. In order to help make this process work smoothly,
custodians must create data warehousing capabilities.&quot; The use of client/server
technology helps custodians send their clients the data they need when they
need it says Solomon. <BR>
<BR>
So systems investment is becoming more to do with software development,
programming and the establishment of in-house PC networks than it is to
do with hardware. &quot;It is a question of giving funds up-to-date data
that can be easily integrated into existing systems and the ability to create
their own data queries on an <I>ad hoc</I> basis,&quot; says Northern Trust's
Koepke. Many custodians have also tried to improve the presentation of their
data by using user-friendly, Microsoft Windows-based packages. Indeed, Windows
has become something of an industry standard. &quot;Some of our clients
have actually used presentation materials from our systems to explain sophisticated
strategies to their boards,&quot; says Mellon's Wywoda. <BR>
<BR>
The technology has to be designed around fund managers' needs. &quot;Clients
have new obligations from the regulators to do with asset diversification,
trustee responsibility, asset/liability ratios and performance attribution.
Clients want to have the desktop technology that can deal with these things,&quot;
says Wywoda. <BR>
<BR>
The list of services that some funds would like electronically is a long
one. Custody clients want security availability reports, which have to be
up-to-date and accurate. Many want a breakdown of their daily cash positions.
They want automatic fail reports and daily transaction reports and the ability
to download the information. Some clients want to have an on-line transaction
history, so they can analyze the past performance of their funds. Others
want to be provided with market information, specifically that referring
to changes in local market rules, regulations and settlement practices.
If the custodian can provide this market information on-line, fund managers
are likely to hear about it more quickly than they would otherwise. <BR>
<BR>
Above all, funds want to communicate with their custodians electronically.
They want to be able to respond to corporate actions and proxy voting on-line.
Some want to be able to send queries and receive responses on-line. &quot;Many
investors prefer to reply on-line. It produces a better audit trail, because
they can make sure that they have responded to what they have been told,&quot;
says one custodian. Custodians also need to ensure that communications are
secure. <BR>
<BR>
Pension funds want their custodians to tell them if their investment managers
exceed their guidelines. &quot;There is concern about whether the guidelines
are being observed and whether the fund is inadvertently taking on more
risk,&quot; says Northern's Penrose. &quot;This can all be automated. We
have an automatic alert and policy monitoring.&quot; Theoretically, custodians
could stop trades if managers were exceeding their guidelines, but there
is a reluctance to do this. &quot;We don't take over the responsibility
of monitoring investment managers,&quot; says Wywoda. &quot;We see ourselves
as an information provider, not a policeman.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Custodians are also expected to integrate performance measurement benchmarks
into their systems. Although the benchmark for performance measurement is
usually chosen by the fund, the custodian must be able to take data from
the performance measurer and integrate it with its own system. <BR>
<BR>
A further development by custodians is the provision of risk management
services. In 1995 funds woke up to risk. This awareness has not been diminished
by the passage of time. Many funds are very concerned about the risks they
are exposed to and are keen to do something about it. &quot;Clients are
really probing to see if the technology can manage the risk,&quot; says
Wywoda. Some custodians have begun to offer risk management services to
their clients. For instance, Bankers Trust, is now offering Raroc 2020 (for
risk-adjusted return on capital), a development of the bank's own internal
risk management system. <BR>
<BR>
Derivatives have been something of a weak point for many custodians. As
a group, custodians were slow to react to the development of the derivative
markets, although this is slowly being set right. This is not that surprising:
custodians don't hold the underlying assets. &quot;Some custodians will
just settle derivatives,&quot; says Wywoda, &quot;but there is a distinction
between settlements and measuring market or investment exposure.&quot; Derivative
positions need to be valued as well as reported, and these positions need
to be consolidated with the fund's positions in other assets. For instance,
a fund's entire exposure to the German equity market might consist of futures
on the DAX (the Frankfurt index of 30 leading shares). 
<H4>Too clever for some </H4>
But not all funds want such sophisticated reporting. &quot;The sophisticated
US custodians produce an overwhelming amount of data, giving a Rolls Royce
service to someone who only wants a bicycle,&quot; says William M Mercer's
Moss. &quot;Some funds deal with their positions only once a quarter. The
system requirements of custody clients depend very much on the size of the
fund. A $1 billion fund with multiple investment managers has very different
requirements to a $100 million fund, which is unlikely to have sufficient
technology support staff to analyze data.&quot; Because the requirements
of individual users are far from uniform, systems need to be flexible so
that services can be tailored to meet funds' needs. <BR>
<BR>
Murray of Thomas Murray also thinks there is no such thing as a typical
buyer of custody. &quot;You could say that the best custodians provide fully
on-line, ISITC-compatible, intra-day reporting across the whole range of
portfolios,&quot; says Murray. &quot;That might be a model requirement,
but some managers don't actually want on-line intra-day reporting. So it
is horses for courses. There is a lot of segmentation in the custody market,
so it is misleading to judge custodians without looking at the requirements
of their clients.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Custodians are well aware that not all clients want complicated systems
capability. But custodians need to stay ahead of their clients' demands.
Says Northern's Penrose: &quot;For those clients that don't use all the
technology capability today, we want them to feel assured that they are
with an organization that is way ahead of them. They have access to capabilities
that they don't need.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The service required of custodians depends on the type of client, how automated
the client is and the internal organization of the client. At some fund
management groups custody sophistication is wasted: decisions are taken
by the front office staff who still want hard copy. Some managers use custodians'
systems for nothing more than basic reporting services: &quot;We use our
custodians for the bare minimum of cash and holdings. We don't manage the
cash ourselves,&quot; says one big UK investment manager. <BR>
<BR>
But other large global fund managers want direct system links and sophisticated
reporting. In <I>Global Investor</I>'s 1995's global custody survey, insurance
fund managers and US fund managers stood out for the importance they placed
on on-line feeds into their systems. &quot;The big fund managers want to
download information and they may have two or three staff permanently assigned
to watching the portfolios,&quot; says one custodian. 
<H4>Segmentation </H4>
These varying requirements have caused some segmentation of the custody
business. Small pension funds often want little more than a minimum service.
Some custodians now cater for smaller funds, while some of the bigger custodians
are beginning to discriminate against portfolios beneath a certain size.
As one custodian puts it: &quot;It costs as much to process a $1 million
trade as it does to process a $1,000 trade.&quot; Niche custodians may find
that they can efficiently and effectively serve those clients that want
nothing more than monthly or even quarterly reporting. <BR>
<BR>
There is little doubt that the scale of investment required of global custodians
is immense. The biggest global custodians predict that the business will
consolidate so that there are fewer than half a dozen bulge-bracket global
custodians. It is clear that some banks are beginning to feel the pressure
of developing systems technology alone. Several have looked at whether generic
processing can be either outsourced or organized as a joint venture with
other custodians. Mellon has an alliance with the Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce (CIBC) which combines the banks' Canadian institutional trust
and custody businesses. That gives CIBC clients access to Mellon's global
custody product and Mellon better access to the Canadian market. Bankers
Trust has formed alliances with Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais and ABSA (Amalgamated
Banks of South Africa). Another possibility, if competition continues to
increase, is that basic custody services may devolve onto the depositories
as banks find it too difficult to make a profit. 
<H4>Don't link up with a lemon </H4>
It is difficult to distinguish conclusively between the systems capability
of custodians because it is difficult to measure the speed and flexibility
of the systems. Custodians may seem to provide a similar service when in
fact there is a great difference between them. &quot;It is hard to get to
how the value is delivered,&quot; says Northern's Penrose. &quot;How quickly
does the information get through? How is it delivered?&quot; Systems spending
is a proxy, but little more, as it is easy to see how a bank could waste
its technology budget going down a blind alley. And, for all its importance,
systems technology is just one part of the services custodians provide.
<BR>
<BR>
Although adequate technology is vital, human relationships continue to matter.
One of the most striking things in the 1996 global custody survey is that
few things annoy fund managers more than turnover of staff at the custodian,
especially when the helpful and efficient are replaced by the unhelpful
or incompetent. &quot;There are small funds and big funds but, despite the
technology, the business must be people-oriented, however good the systems
are,&quot; says Moss.

 <HR><TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Name</TD>
<TD>Bank of Bermuda</TD> <TD>BNY</TD> <TD>BT</TD> <TD>Barclays</TD> <TD>BBH</TD>
<TD>Chase </TD> <TD>Citibank</TD> <TD>Lloyds</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >Mellon
</TD> <TD>Midland </TD> <TD>Mitsubishi </TD> <TD>MS</TD> <TD>NT</TD> <TD>Pictet</TD>
<TD>RBS</TD> <TD>Royal Trust</TD> <TD>State Street</TD> <TD>SBC</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Basic features</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD COLSPAN=2ALIGN="LEFT">Frequency of position valuation?
(Best)</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Intra-day</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Real-time</TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Customized reporting?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Reporting by tax lot?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>N/A</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Security availability report?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Swift capability?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">ISITC Standard?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No2</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No2</TD>
</TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Settlement</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Straight-through processing?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Electronic trade confirmation?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Daily fail report?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Corporate actions</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Corporate actions notification?</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Proxy voting notification?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No<SUP>6</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD COLSPAN=2ALIGN="LEFT">Electronic response possible
for both?</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>6</SUP></TD> <TD>No<SUP>3</SUP></TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No6</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Cash management</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Daily call interest rates?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Daily fail report?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Daily cash projections?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Other system tools</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Performance measurement?</TD> <TD>No<SUP>1</SUP></TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>9</SUP></TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
</TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Performance attribution analysis?</TD>
<TD>No<SUP>1</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No<SUP>9</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD COLSPAN=2ALIGN="LEFT">Is asset allocation monitored
automatically?</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD COLSPAN=2ALIGN="LEFT">Automatic alert if guidelines
are exceeded?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes<SUP>4</SUP></TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Currency overlay reporting?</TD> <TD>Yes<SUP>1</SUP></TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Market and regulatory information?</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">On-line enquiry?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Risk management &amp; derivative</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Derivative position reporting?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Derivative valuation?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Frequency of marking to market? </TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>N/A</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>N/A</TD> <TD>Real-time</TD> <TD>Real-time</TD>
<TD>Monthly</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Real-time</TD>
<TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> <TD>Daily</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Are derivative positions consolidated </TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">with positions in the underlying?</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>-</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Value-at-risk figure (or similar)?</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Stress-testing?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> </TR>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=19>Network access</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Telephone dial up</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Internet</TD> <TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No2</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">ISDN</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No<SUP>2</SUP></TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">E-mail</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>No</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">Encryption?</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>-</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>No</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD>
<TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> <TD>Yes</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD>Total custody development </TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">budget (1996)? </TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD>
<TD>$200 mil.</TD> <TD>$125 mil.</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD> <TD>Undisclosed<SUP>5</SUP></TD>
<TD>$65 mil.</TD> <TD>$56.3 mil.</TD> <TD>30% </TD> <TD>$85 mil.</TD> <TD>Undisclosed<SUP>7</SUP></TD>
<TD>Note<SUP>8</SUP></TD> <TD>Note<SUP>10</SUP></TD> <TD>$120 mil.</TD>
<TD>Undisclosed</TD> <TD>$66 mil.</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD> <TD>Undisclosed</TD>
<TD>Undisclosed</TD> </TR>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">of income</TD> </TR>
</TABLE> 


<HR>
<H2>Notes </H2>
While every care has been taken in compiling this listing, <I>Global
Investor </I>cannot take responsibility for misunderstandings arising from
any inaccuracies. Readers seeking further information should contact the
institutions directly. <BR>
<BR>
1. $Output to thirdparties <BR>
2. Under development <BR>
3. Corporate actions only <BR>
4. For administration clients <BR>
5. Available to custody clients on request. <BR>
6. Use of PC communications link where free format messaging is available
<BR>
7. $217 million for global securities services within HSBC 1995 <BR>
8. Systems development by software vendor. Total dollars unknown.>
<BR>
9. Expected 1st quarter 1997. <BR>
10. Morgan Stanley will spend over $700 million on systems. MSGC shares
in this expenditure.<HR> 
<H2>The five most important new developments for clients: <BR>
Bank of Bermuda </H2>
Expansion of on-line performance measurement and analytics. <BR>
Expansion of data delivery including CD-Rom options. <BR>
Sophisticated exposure reporting. <BR>
Further automation of client specific host-to-host links. <BR>
Expansion of compliance monitoring. 
<H2>Bankers Trust </H2>
Multi-currency accounting and valuation (Mars). <BR>
Enhanced custody client workstation (Globe*View 2.0). <BR>
Compliance monitoring. <BR>
Internet developments. <BR>
Swift (ISITC) reporting. 
<H2>Brown Brothers </H2>
Real-time share availability reporting. <BR>
On-line FX confirmation. <BR>
Market intelligence and risk products on the internet. <BR>
Assisting clients to convert securities messages to ISITC format.
<BR>
Superior report-writing capability on proprietary workstation.
<H2>Chase Manhattan </H2>
Next generation workstation (InfoStation 2000) including automatic delivery
of network information. <BR>
Foreign exchange dealing and settlement products. 
<H2>Citibank </H2>
Improving straight-through processing rates. Introduction of standard
securities processing platform across Citibank networks. <BR>
Extending investment accounting capabilities. <BR>
Development of electronic banking products. <BR>
Further development of Aclaim (Agent and Client Information Management
System). 
<H2>Lloyds </H2>
Ability to hold stocks and settle in Crest. <BR>
Additional straight-through processing. <BR>
Enhanced PC-based customer communications links. <BR>
Investment in custody system to provide a flexible approach to a wide
range of custodial facilities. <BR>
Development of integrated product solutions. 
<H2>Mellon Trust </H2>
Straight-through Swift processing. <BR>
Risk and guideline monitoring, counterparty, derivatives etc. <BR>
Sophisticated attribution, AIMR performance analysis. <BR>
Worldwide master record-keeping for multinationals. <BR>
24-hour worldwide real-time processing. 
<H2>Midland </H2>
Offering a full UK custody and settlement service with Crest. <BR>
Using proprietary links for enhanced communications and reporting.
<BR>
Straight-through processing, including automatic download of Swift messages.
<BR>
Improved support for the active management of cash balances. 
<H2>Mitsubishi </H2>
Windows-based client information system. <BR>
Enhanced derivatives reporting. <BR>
Expanded internet services. <BR>
Rewrite of tax reclamation sub-system <BR>
Development of new foreign exchange sub-system.
<H2>Morgan Stanley </H2>
Real-time accounting and information delivery. <BR>
On-line information access via the internet. <BR>
Continued refinement of settlement/safekeeping systems globally.
<BR>
Continued emphasis on Swift and ISITC communications. <BR>
Improved foreign exchange capabilities. 
<H2>Northern Trust </H2>
The continued roll-out of Northern Trust's Passport (reporting technology).
<BR>
Fund strategy and risk monitoring tools. <BR>
Introduction of an automated client notification of market events and
portfolio activity. <BR>
Continued development of intra-day cash forecasting technology. <BR>
Roll-out of multinational master trust product.
<H2>Pictet &amp; Cie </H2>
Enhanced portfolio attribution analysis. <BR>
Automatic interfacing of incoming Swift messages. <BR>
Currency overlay reporting. <BR>
Integration of external users into the LAN of the bank.
<H2>Royal Bank of Scotland </H2>
Crest membership and full interface capabilities. <BR>
Continuing Swift automation. <BR>
Front-end, on-line transaction initiation and information. <BR>
Third-party administration.> <BR>
Cash management products and supporting technology.
<H2>Royal Trust </H2>
Decision-support tools and back-office accounting. <BR>
Fine-tune straight-through processing. <BR>
Stress-testing of OTC derivative products. <BR>
Enhanced automated reconciliation with clients and managers. <BR>
Performance measurement, including attribution analysis, risk analysis
and style analysis. 
<H2>State Street </H2>
Client services workstation. <BR>
FolioExpert; a decision support toolkit, information integration, management,
analysis and reporting. <BR>
Multicurrency accounting, financial reporting and preformance measurement
for private market investments (PrivateEdge). <BR>
State Street Sextant. Assists currency hedging and country selection
decisions.> 
<H2>Swiss Bank Corporation </H2>
Risk measurement. <BR>
Performance measurement. <BR>
Straight-through processing and automatic confirmation.</B> <BR>
MIS on the client service group side. <BR>
Multi-banking -capabilities. 
<p><BR>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<nobr>
<a href="gi.96.05.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-44</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-22</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.05.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121139 text/html 5724
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:10:37 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 27 Jun 1996 16:39:03 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5484
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: May 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: May 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: May 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.05.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.96.05.1.html"><b>Is big beautiful?</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
The big banks have been predicting that the consolidation of the custody
business would favour them. But clients still seem to prefer some of the
smaller rivals. <BR>
<I>Tim Hyam</I>.  
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>EMERGING MARKET CUSTODY </b><br>
When settlement is the hard part 7 <BR>
In the emerging markets it is not just market crashes that investors need
to worry about. Share certificates get lost and trades take three months
to settle. <BR>
<I>Joanna Wrighton</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>TEN YEARS OF GLOBAL CUSTODY</b><br>
Where are they now? <br>
en years ago the big banks, State Street, Chase, Manufacturers Hanover,
the Bank of New York and Citibank, were the best. How the world has changed.
<BR>
<I>James Featherstone <BR>
and Benjamin Ensor.</I> 
<br><br>  
<b>CUSTODY SYSTEMS </b><br>
Technology: the leading indicator <br>
Custody clients are demanding more and more sophisticated systems from their
custodians and they want to pay less. <BR>
<I>Benjamin Ensor</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>PROFILES</b><br>
The will to win <br>
The heads of custody at six banks explain why their strategy will keep them
in business. <BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins and James Featherstone</I>
<br><br> 
</td>
</tr>







<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
Specialists aim at balanced business | How to save millions in tax| RogersCasey
and Barra merge | Why active investing is not irrational. 
<br><br>
<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
United Asset Management appoints Chase| Chase wins UK pension mandate |
Imro sets out regulatory framework for <BR>
Crest | Morgan Stanley wins mandate in Australia. 
<br><br>
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
The art of quant <br>
How to avoid the pitfalls of building a quantitative system. <BR>
<I>Vijay Kumar Chopra.</I> 
<br><br> 
<b>FUNDS</b><br>
Market exposure 
Investors brave enough to invest in Taiwan during China's missile tests
have begun to reap the rewards. <BR>
<I>Joanna Wrighton</I>.
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
On the road to Armageddon?  <br>
The decoupling of equity and bond markets has begun in earnest. Are the
equity markets about to crash? <BR>
<I>Kieran Higgins</I>.
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-45</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B044-285</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1h.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122525 text/html 4503
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:24:31 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:28:51 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4293
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>

<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>

<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Daily phone/fax commentary</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Score</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
107</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
73</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Natwest Markets</TD>
<TD>
46</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
45</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
First Chicago</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-46</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000298-B040-345</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.02.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114174549 text/html 71682
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 17:44:13 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:14:06 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 71446
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: February 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: February 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
February 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H2>The case for currency overlay </H2>
<H4><BR>
Though techniques for managing currency risk have been available for more
than a decade, overlay still confuses plan sponsors and fund managers. It
shouldn't and it works. But which type to choose? </H4>
<B>This <I>Global Investor </I>currency risk management forum brings leading
exponents of the main currency risk management strategies together with
significant institutional investors. <BR>
<BR>
Its aim is to help investors decide how to evaluate the currency portion
of an international portfolio, to see currency as a separate asset class,
and to manage currency as an overlay, as a risk embedded in the portfolio.
<BR>
<BR>
In particular the discussion focuses not just on the types of instruments
available for currency risk management and yield enhancement, but on an
analysis of the merits and faults of the two most commonly used strategies
- dynamic hedging and active currency management.</B> <BR>
<BR>
<bR><BR>
<B>Background</B> <BR>
<BR>
* The history of currency overlay <BR>
<BR>
* The slow development of the institutional market <BR>
<BR>
<bR><BR>
<B>Lee Thomas:</B> I know that Neil Record started offering currency overlay
services in 1981. That surprised me because I really started talking about
these topics in about 1985, 1986, and at that time, what I used to hear
from clients was 'yes, this idea of managing currency separately is great
in principle but no-one has a product that can actually do it for us.' As
a pioneer perhaps you could tell us what you have seen in the evolution
of this industry since 1981 and where it stands today. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Yes. I was involved in currency management at the US
confectionery manufacturer Mars and set up Record Treasury Management in
1983. <BR>
<BR>
Since then, the world has changed enormously. When I started the clients
who wanted currency risk management services were almost entirely corporate.
They were in Europe where there was an awareness of currency risk, and particularly
in open economies such as the UK, The Netherlands, and in Scandinavia. <BR>
<BR>
However, they were often constrained by restrictive exchange controls that
prevented them from using risk management instruments. For example, in the
UK until 1979, currency risk management was difficult because of foreign
exchange controls. <BR>
<BR>
The major change in the 1990s has been the rise of the US institutional
investor. Since 1988/89 there has been huge growth in the international
allocations of large mainstream, state and large cap pension funds. This
has brought currency risk to their attention because it affects the valuation
of their assets. They have been forced to accept that this valuation is
dependent on two things - the valuation in the currency in which they have
invested and the exchange rate between that currency and their base currency.
That realization only happens after you have invested. <BR>
<BR>
That development was about 1991 - it was then we began to see mainstream
US plan sponsors asking for specialist currency overlay management. <BR>
<BR>
We believe that US international allocation has become the vanguard for
currency overlay management world-wide and certainly, even though we are
a London company, all our new volumes are coming from that source. <BR>
<BR>
So far, overwhelmingly the most popular approach adopted by major plan sponsors
has been dynamic hedging - an approach which is fairly safe, very easy to
explain, and is not costly. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Key definitions</B> <BR>
<BR>
* What is currency overlay? <BR>
<BR>
* What is currency hedging? <BR>
<BR>
* What is dynamic hedging/option replication/portfolio insurance? <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Lee Thomas:</B> Before we get deep into debate we should define a
few terms. Currency overlay is the separate management of the currency exposures
in a portfolio, exposures that result from investments in other assets -
usually equities or bonds - not from a deliberate policy of taking specific
currency risks. <BR>
<BR>
There are a number of different approaches to managing this exposure. One
is not to: don't hedge. This passive unhedged approach takes the view that
currency movements are a fair (zero sum) game - sometimes they hurt me and
sometimes they help - and that hedging simply introduces transaction costs
that really do reduce performance and distract investors from the important
business of choosing the right market and the right investment. <BR>
<BR>
The passive hedged approach is the exact opposite. It says that you don't
make any money in currency in the long run; the foreign exchange market
is just a casino and no-one can beat it. Since no one can beat the currency
market and foreign exchange transaction costs are low compared with the
risk reduction you enjoy by hedging, you should hedge all of your exposures
all the time. <BR>
<BR>
There is also an intermediate hedging approach that is similar to portfolio
insurance. This attempts to gain most of the upside of currency movements
but also cut to off the downside. This is done not by forecasting exchange
rates but by manipulating their distribution by dynamically managing the
hedge ratio. <BR>
<BR>
And then there is the active currency approach. This treats currency quite
explicitly as a source of expected return on a portfolio, not a problem
to be solved, but an opportunity. <BR>
<BR><BR>
<B>Michael Huttman: </B>We should distinguish here between overlay and hedging.
Overlay - currency management - if it is an active process, doesn't necessarily
mean you are going to hedge, it means that you might hedge, depending on
your process. As distinct from overlay, an active currency manager is an
external manager who manages currency as an asset class. <BR>
<BR>
This type of manager - an overlay manager - observes the currency risk in
an existing international portfolio in an overlay context. Once they have
observed it they decide to attribute that risk where they believe there
are returns for the portfolio and in our case we do that dynamically within
a clearly defined investment process. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Why overlay?</B> <BR>
<BR>
* The amounts invested overseas are sufficiently large <BR>
<BR>
* The academic literature shows that it reduces volatility. <BR>
<BR>
* Arguments based on spot appreciation of non-base currencies are false
<BR>
<BR>
* Arguments based on the zero-sum game are irrelevant. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Stefan Gavell: </B>Investors in places like Australia, Canada and
Continental Europe, where significantly higher percentages of portfolios
are invested overseas than in the US, have recognized the value of currency
management for the past five years. <BR>
<BR>
What is significant is that US investors are now starting to as well. And
that is simply because the amount of US pension assets invested overseas
has grown at a compound 25% over the past five years and will probably grow
again over the next five by a similar amount. For tax exempt assets the
percentage invested outside the US was something like 3.5% in 1989 and is
now more than 10%. That is the kind of the level at which currency begins
to have a significant potential impact on overall performance. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>US investors have also been attracted to overlay because
of an academic interest in the issues. The American approach to investment
is essentially academic and interest in currency overlay has been led and
cajoled and slowed down and speeded up by academic literature in a way that
in the UK it absolutely is not. <BR>
<BR>
When we went to corporate customers, particularly UK corporate customers
in the 1980s, we would do a presentation and they would say: 'that's very
interesting but it's too complicated.' In the 1990s you go to America and
they say: 'That's very interesting but it's too simple.' The Scandinavians
are quite intellectual in the sense that they like numbers and the Dutch
are similar. It is the UK that stands out as being particularly against
the academic approach. <BR>
<BR>
For example, let's suppose you offer your currency overlay services to a
client and you take a very conservative view that you won't guarantee to
enhance returns but will guarantee to reduce the volatility of those returns.
<BR>
<BR>
The non-academic approach is to say 'look, my horizon is sufficiently long
and I don't care about volatility. It's swings and roundabouts. You have
just told me you are not going to increase my returns and I don't want the
transaction costs of overlay.' <BR>
<BR>
In practice, we probably will offer to increase returns but as a backstop.
However, the difference is that an American will have read his Sharpe or
has a PhD or an MBA or a Chair at the university on his board of trustees
and they will be demanding improvements in his Sharpe ratios. <BR>
<BR>
So a UK fund manager will just say: 'I am long the dollar because I like
the dollar.' If I say that I can reduce his volatility and leave his returns
unchanged, his answer is: 'So what? Go away.' <BR>
<BR>
If you said it to a US fund manager he would say: 'You can improve my Sharpe
ratio, that's excellent, I'll take it. I am interested in currency because
I have written a piece of research or I have read one and the evidence appears
to be that on balance, as long as the costs of transactions are sufficiently
low, we will reduce our volatility and leave our returns unaffected.' <BR>
<BR>
The bottom line is that investors must take a dispassionate look at investment
management. If you get a fixed return of 8% per annum on the one hand or
you get a return which averages 8% but which is 2% one year, 19% the next,
8% the next and so on, which would you prefer? The answer has to be the
fixed return because it gives stability. If that is so, then investors ought
to be interested in at least looking at currency overlay. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman: </B>Even when the academic debate is inconclusive I
think it is very clear to most investors that there is risk due to currencies.
The academic debate has spent a lot of time trying to determine whether
currencies are a zero sum game. <BR>
<BR>
Now funnily enough for an active manager I believe that they probably are.
So why are we in business? Because the argument only works over a much longer
horizon than any plan sponsor, even a pension fund, can live with. It might
be true over a 10- to 15-year period. But most plan sponsors will admit
that they are worried about a three-year period, and in fact are actually
looking at annual or even quarterly returns. <BR>
<BR>
Investors have also perceived that they have been paid to ignore the issue
of currencies, and this is particularly true of US plan sponsors as the
dollar has been weak over the period that people have focused on overlay.
<BR>
<BR>
People focus on overlay only when there is a risk that their international
asset returns will be swamped by currency volatility or worse, that those
returns become negative because of currency movements. We tend to get incoming
calls in only one environment and that is one of a strengthening dollar.
<BR>
<BR>
It's the same in the UK. Sterling has been weak. Investors have therefore
decided that the career risk of recommending an overlay programme at treasury
or plan sponsor level is too high because they would be doing it on consolidated
assets. The risk of being wrong has a huge impact on the bottom line. <BR>
<BR>
But if you are paid to ignore currency risk because your base currency is
weak, then you can afford to ignore it until that trend changes. <BR>
<BR>
Their experience is backed up by the fact that so far the people who have
been killed by currency fluctuations are those who have had strong currencies
- the Germans and the Swiss. They have only been lucky that it has not been
a great issue from a pension point of view because they have not been allowed
to invest abroad to a great extent. Now these restrictions have been relaxed,
the issue of currency risk and its management from a Swiss franc, guilder
and Deutschmark point of view is becoming more critical. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Paul Duprey: </B>I agree. During the summer we saw a large number of
UK equity fund managers start to hedge their yen exposure. Now, if you chart
sterling over the last five or seven years, it's gone one way - down. Consequently
there hasn't been a need for UK pension fund managers to hedge their overseas
assets. However, if sterling does start to appreciate heavily you may start
to see UK pension fund managers really start to look much more closely at
the overlay product. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Michael and Paul are right: these perceptions do drive
overlay activity and you do tend to find the quickest growth in a period
of base currency appreciation. It is also the case that these kinds of statement
about base currency weakness are made very commonly by plan sponsors, by
equity managers, everybody. But they are not true. <BR>
<BR>
The currency weakness argument is only really true in the case of the yen
if we take a five, 10, 15-year horizon. It's not true if you take either
a five-year or a 15-year horizon, or indeed a 10-year horizon if you take
the Deutschmark. <BR>
<BR>
I don't mean that the spot dollar has not depreciated because it has; I
mean is the spot lower or higher than its implied forward rate if you had
taken out a forward position - a purchase of dollars forward - and rolled
it? And the answer is no, actually it's been pretty much on par against
the Deutschmark. <BR>
<BR>
So in fact you wouldn't have lost money had you run a passive overlay against
the Deutschmark. Even though it looked as though you made money out of Deutschmarks,
all you made money out of was the interest rate differentials being an accurate
predictor. It's only the yen - which is obviously important and dominates
the asset weightings in a lot of international portfolios - in which we
have seen a 2% or 3% per year appreciation against its forward rate. <BR>
<BR>
On the other hand, since between 1980 and 1985 we had a strong dollar period,
and between 1985 and 1995 we have had a relatively weak dollar, you could
argue we have just happened to have picked a certain part of a natural cyclical
movement. <BR>
<BR>
So there isn't much evidence that the dollar is weak against its forward
rate. Rather these are random movements around a par. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri Marlio: </B>Couldn't you add the Swiss franc to that
category along with the yen? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Interestingly no. On our analysis if you run a passive
hedge of the Swiss franc against the dollar at a 15-year horizon or at a
five-year horizon it doesn't lose money. I have got to exclude a 10-year
horizon because then you start at a hugely strong dollar. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman: </B>Of course 10 years is just about when people started
to think about currency overlay! The first overlay in the US was the Teachers'
Illinois and that's about nine years ago. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record:</B> Well yes, but real volumes only started to pick up in
1990/91, so really it is more like five years, over which period these statements
about dollar weakness fall down. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So what drives people to look for currency overlay is
when they perceive themselves to be losing money on the currency side. But
that perception may be wrong. It may be the result of the fact that many
investors are accounting oriented and look only at what happens to the spot
exchange rate. This is not a measure of whether or not you have made or
lost money on the currency. <BR>
<BR>
What they should be looking at is how the currency has performed relative
to its forward rate. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Overlay decision is difficult</B> <BR>
<BR>
* Bond portfolios are basically currency funds. <BR>
<BR>
* Bond managers have more in-house currency expertise. <BR>
<BR>
* It looks easy to separate the currency risk from an equity fund. <BR>
<BR>
* But theoretically equities are not truly exposed to currency risk. <BR>
<BR>
* All investors can separate market decisions from currency decisions. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Nick Douch: </B>I think something else also determines what kind
of investors look at currency overlay products. <BR>
<BR>
We would expect to see bonds being more actively managed from the currency
point of view than equities. Equity fund managers often say: 'If I like
the share I tend to like the currency.' In other words their investment
decision is a one-stage not a two-stage process. <BR>
<BR>
That is seen as acceptable because if you buy a bond you are quite clearly
buying the currency. If you buy an equity are you buying one that is denominated
in a particular currency because that's what it reports in or are you actually
going to diversify that back into the currency mix that that company itself
has. <BR>
<BR>
That raises the question of whether that company should be hedging its own
translation exposure some corporations take the view that they should not
manage their translation exposure because the fund manager will do it. But
I suspect fund managers aren't breaking it down that far. They are saying:
'I am buying a UK share therefore I have a sterling exposure.' But do they
really have sterling exposure if they buy GrandMet or RTZ? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>This idea that currency management is more allied to
bond management than equity management is right in one respect but it is
not in terms of customers. <BR>
<BR>
A standard benchmark for a bond manager is to be hedged. If he ventures
out of his domestic currency, his neutral is to be hedged. However, up till
now, equity managers have had an unhedged benchmark. <BR>
<BR>
If they hire a currency overlay manager it is unlikely that they will chose
to move to a 100% hedged benchmark. They may chose to move to 50/50 but
in our experience they leave it unhedged and say: 'Look, at the moment we
regard this as swings and the roundabouts. You're telling us that on average
you either don't enhance returns, or you enhance by 100 basis points a year
or whatever it is, and you reduce volatility. Well I'll measure you against
unhedged, off you go.' <BR>
<BR>
So whereas using overlay with a bond is tactical, because it's tied up to
such an extent with the management of the underlying asset, in equities
if you have $600 million in Japan and they are going to remain in Japanese
equities then you say: 'Here is $600 million worth of risk, off you go,
you go and manage it.' <BR>
<BR>
For that reason I suspect, and certainly it is our experience, that the
growth in overlay, particularly in the US, is on equity holdings not on
bond holdings. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>That is a very interesting observation because the academic
literature says that, as a theoretical proposition, equities are not necessarily
currency exposed. Bonds are because they are promises to pay cash. Equities
need not be because they are claims to real assets and real assets are not
naturally denominated in currencies. <BR>
<BR>
Then there are studies that show that equities seem to behave as if they're
currency exposed, so that if you hedge your currency exposure you reduce
risk. And still other studies say that if you look over a long period of
time currency hedging doesn't reduce risk in equities. So who is right?
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record:</B> I don't know if we would have the time, or indeed the
expertise, to launch into an academic debate here. However, you are absolutely
right that an equity is not as clear cut a currency risk as a bond. However
the majority of countries in which large cross-border institutional investors
invest have large domestic economies, for example Japan. <BR>
<BR>
Now, if you give me a valuation of an index of Japanese equities expressed
in dollar terms spot, I can reduce the volatility of those returns if I
put an overlay on top. Interestingly it isn't 100% (I don't believe in optimization,
I don't think it works very well) but you could optimize the hedge ratio
that would minimize the volatility on a long series like that and you might
find it is 80%, 70%. Now that implies an export, a non-yen component of
the equity, of 30%, which fits in roughly with one's ideas about the extent
to which the Japanese economy is open. But it isn't true to say that the
lowest volatility of a dollar evaluated yen investment is unhedged. An element
of hedge is the lowest volatility. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman:</B> In an international equity portfolio, about two-thirds
of the risk comes from the equities and the rest comes from currencies.
In an international bond portfolio, about 80% of the risk actually comes
from currencies. So international bond portfolios are principally currency
funds camouflaged so that they are politically acceptable to plan sponsors.
<BR>
<BR>
So, though in theory bond fund managers ought to be more interested in currency
overlay than equity fund managers, in fact they are being paid to take currency
risk. The reason that equity managers are actually the most interested in
hiring external currency risk managers is because most international equity
investment processes are driven by bottom-up stock picking. That is a very
different skill set than the one needed to protect the currency impact of
international investing. <BR>
<BR>
International bond managers tend to be better currency managers because
they have had to focus on it naturally. They have the internal capability
to manage that risk. An international equity manager does not have that
skill internally, and so, despite the fact that an overlay programme is
fairly simple both conceptually and from an operational point of view, they
are much more willing to engage an outside manager. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Which instruments to use?</B> <BR>
<BR>
* The instruments are few: forwards, swaps, and options. <BR>
<BR>
* The instruments are less important than what you do with them. <BR>
<BR>
* Exotic options are of limited use as hedging instruments. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Lee Thomas: </B>What are the currency hedging instruments available
to international portfolio managers and what are their pros and cons? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>I can count them on the fingers of one hand. They are:
forward contracts, futures contracts and options in all their guises. The
interesting question is not what they are, but what you do with them. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>That is be so, but simple hedging techniques are understood
within the investment management community. <BR>
<BR>
I had always thought that a fairly innocuous way of explaining currency
hedging is in terms of borrowing in one currency and lending the proceeds
in another. <BR>
<BR>
However, I once had an irate client in my office saying: 'I didn't know
you did this with my money, it sounds very speculative.' <BR>
<BR>
And I said: 'No, it's actually hedging. He replied: 'I thought you used
forwards.' And I explained: 'A forward contract is a way of synthetically
borrowing in one currency and lending the proceeds in another.' And he said:
'Oh, I didn't know that, well that's fine then.' <BR>
<BR>
But that is what all these instruments do. If you are long Deutschmark assets
you borrow Deutschmarks to give yourself a liability to offset your asset,
and lend the proceeds in dollars, if that's your base currency. A forward
contract is another way of doing that. A swap is another way of doing that.
A repo is another way of doing that. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Stefan Gavell: </B>We should also make the point that corporate treasurers
typically have better access to hedging tools than pension funds and mutual
funds, and that is at least in part because typically pension funds and
mutual funds don't borrow money. We haven't seen a very efficient market
for the transfer of risk from the people who issue debt to the investors,
and maybe this is something we'll see develop over the next few years. Maybe
we will actually see a pension fund enter into a long-term currency swap
or exchange of cash flows with someone who has natural exposure on the other
side. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>What about the more complex products? Who is using complex
options to hedge? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio: </B>The purpose of the vast majority of the exotic
options that have been developed recently is to reduce upfront premium cost.
The flip side of reducing the cost is that you give up some of the protection
that a vanilla option gives you. <BR>
<BR>
A plain vanilla dollar/mark call is the right to buy dollars against Deutschmarks
at a certain rate. A knock-out option would be the right to buy dollars,
let's say at 1.50, but should the spot rate trade at or below an outstrike
of, say, 1.38, the option disappears. If this were a six-month option, this
knock-out feature would reduce the price of the option by about 20%. <BR>
<BR>
If on the other hand you put the knock-out feature in the money - if it's
a 1.45 dollar call, you put a knock-out feature of 1.50, or 1.55 - then
you have an asset which has a lot of intrinsic value as the spot rate moves
up, intrinsic value which is lost if spot trades at 1.55. That significantly
reduces the cost of the option. <BR>
<BR>
The users of these instruments, known as reverse knock-outs, tend to be
hedge funds and proprietary traders, not hedgers. The hedger does not want
a hedge that disappears just when he needs it most. <BR>
<BR>
They're used by people who have very clear ideas about the trading range
of a particular currency pair. A popular version of the trade has involved
the belief that mark/Paris will remain in a range of 3.35-3.55 for a year.
If people believe that the cross will trade within that range for a year,
they can get a return of between 12 to 1 and 15 to 1 on their investment.
All these exotic options require one to believe in technical levels or points
through which a cross will not trade. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Well that certainly sounds like an enticing return, 12
or 15 to 1. I think it could only be beaten by Rapid Lightning in the fifth
at Belmont. Is there anyone here who uses them? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman: </B>As Jacques says, most exotic options are not hedges,
so few overlay managers use them. <BR>
<BR>
Also the transparency of exotic option pricing is poor. Most independent
fund managers are not yet in a position to account for these options or
integrate them within a clearly defined risk management framework. Exotic
options tend to be non-linear. Most overlay managers have a risk management
framework that allows them at best to control linear risk. <BR>
<BR>
So the potential for their use I think will grow in an active environment
but will remain poor, or should remain poor in a hedging environment. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Stefan Gavell: </B>The plan sponsor issue is key. Even if the plan sponsor
understands these exotic products, and many of them do, they have to explain
them to their beneficiaries. That is what's kept exotic options to a very
small minority of the business. <BR>
<BR>
There is also the question of valuation. Only in exchange-traded options
is there really a good framework for independent valuation. For OTC options
you've got to establish some kind of panel of institutions to do that and
that kind of structure has not yet evolved sufficiently. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Virginia Parker:</B> The bulk of the managers we track use the inter-bank
forward market; about 10% use options actively and about 3% use exotic options.
The technology is so challenging that most of them are not up to curve and
have chosen to stick to what they know. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Which strategies to use?</B> <BR>
<BR>
* Dynamic hedging is cheap and easy to explain. <BR>
<BR>
* It is also portfolio insurance, which broke down in equities. <BR>
<BR>
* Options may be simpler. <BR>
<BR>
* A mixture of the two is probably optimal. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Neil Record: </B>The independent overlay industry has decided, with
one or two exceptions, to use the cheapest, most vanilla instruments - forwards.
Managers then differ in what they do with them. <BR>
<BR>
The style that has emerged from this preference for simple instruments -
and because it has proved to be what the customers want - is dynamic hedging.
It is cheap and it is predictable - in the sense that the customer can ask
what would the dynamic hedger do if the dollar strengthened by 10%, and
the dynamic hedger can explain exactly what he will do. <BR>
<BR>
So, although there's been a competition of styles in currency overlay and
a number of managers have used interesting instruments, the winner in the
jungle of getting the mandate has been those who use forwards in a predictable
way in dynamic hedging to replicate option pay-offs. <BR>
<BR>
That's the approach that I would say now the majority of asset and overlay
management is managed under. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly: </B>That is certainly true in the US market because it suits
the way in which the market's been educated - where investors are encouraged
to follow a very clearly defined process making investment decisions. It's
much easier for the dynamic hedger to fit in to that very clearly defined
process, to be able to explain exactly what he is doing, than it would be
for someone not using such a clearly definable process or someone using
complex option structures. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio: </B>When you talk about replicating options,
don't you mean portfolio insurance, which replicated options for a while
but then broke down when the stock market crashed in 1987? <BR>
<BR>
Now the foreign exchange markets don't often gap that much, but they do
gap and when they do option replication doesn't work. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Let's just define what we are talking about here. There
are techniques for manipulating the distribution of returns such that you
can reduce the probability of a large loss while maintaining most of the
opportunity for a large gain. One way of getting that kind of pay-off is
to buy a call option. <BR>
<BR>
What is referred to as dynamic hedging is a currency trading programme that
synthetically produces that same kind of pay-off. <BR>
<BR>
These programmes derive their logic directly from the Black Scholes description
of how an option is priced. This model showed that the way you price an
option is by calculating how to hedge an option, and the way you hedge an
option is by maintaining a portfolio in the underlying instrument that replicates
the terminal pay-off. <BR>
<BR>
The logic of those offering option-replication is that if the banks selling
options are then hedging them using dynamic hedging, then why not just cut
out the middle man and use dynamic hedging to create that option pay-off.
<BR>
<BR>
That's what people are talking about when they talk about dynamic hedging,
option replication, portfolio insurance. Not quite, because portfolio insurance
need not replicate any conventional option, but we're going to be little
bit loose here and use the term for any of those programmes that produce
a pay-off such that you get most of the upside if the market goes up, but
you suffer only a little of the downside if it goes down. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Yes - your description of dynamic hedging is broadly
speaking what was described as portfolio insurance in the mid-80's and yes
customers who work out that the words mean roughly the same thing regularly
ask: 'Didn't portfolio insurance fall to pieces and hasn't it been shown
that it doesn't work? <BR>
<BR>
My answer is that portfolio insurance did break down, but it did so for
a very particular reason: that a very significant minority of the whole
market became users of this one technique in one place, Wall Street, in
one market, the US equity market. <BR>
<BR>
They all wished to have this insurance and, as exponents of these techniques
will tell you, the dynamic hedger is, in a sense, a perverse user of market.
He buys the market in small increments as it goes up, and sells the market
in small increments as it goes down. <BR>
<BR>
If that process does not affect the market, then the historical analysis
used to create the process will work. If it affects the market, then it
won't - or at least it will change. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Paul Duprey: </B>Absolutely - option replication assumes that the market
is not affected. Now what's interesting in currency overlay is the size
of the mandates being won, and the fact that the majority of currency overlay
management is model driven. So, if the mandates won are very large and the
client's underlying base currency has liquidity constraints then the trigger
levels may have a significant impact on the markets. <BR>
<BR>
I think that the option replicatiors will inevitably accentuate all moves.
They will make moves bigger jsut by doing what they have to do to protect
themselves. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio: </B>Also, it's not just a question of the amount
affecting the price. In situations where the markets gap, option replication
doesn't work and the foreign exchange markets do gap: look at what's happened
to the mark-lira, or sterling's devaluation, and in those situations, option
replication does not work. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>And of course my customers ask me this. They say aren't
I now taking on a mandate which is putting me at risk. <BR>
<BR>
My answer is no. Let's just look at the numbers. Let's look at the scale
of portfolio insurance in Wall Street in 1986/87, and let's look at the
scale of model-driven currency overlay in dynamic hedging techniques as
a proportion of that sort of turnover, and they just bear no relationship,
they're a factor of hundreds different. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So should the readers of <I>Global Investor</I> be concerned
that as a result of all these different people pursuing this strategy, the
foreign exchange markets will meltdown in the same way that the equity markets
did in 1987? Will that bring portfolio insurance, which has become such
a popular strategy, to grief? Let's define meltdown as one year's normal
volatility in a single day. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Clive Laing: </B>It's implausible because there are still corporates
which trade foreign exchange as part of their normal commercial activities.
On top of that, you also have the central banks which have usually entirely
opposite aims and views. That diversity of activity lowers the probability
of the meltdown. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly: </B>I think that though there will be meltdown in certain
markets, there will not be a meltdown in the foreign exchange market as
a whole. I mean we have already seen a meltdown in Mexico for example and
don't forget what happened to the dollar as a result of that. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>I would say that we aren't heading towards a cataclysmic
Wall Street-type crash because of the actions of the dynamic hedgers because
there is still a tremendous amount of what you might call natural, relatively
price insensitive supply and demand for foreign exchange every day. <BR>
<BR>
However, if the costs of dynamic hedging become too high, then there will
be a reduction in capacity. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman:</B> I agree. I don't think there will be a meltdown
but I think there will also be a reduction in the amount of excess return
that active managers have been able to generate over the past and a dramatic
reduction in the benefit of using dynamic hedging. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor: </B>I think we should reassure the readers of<I>
Global Investor</I> that meltdown in this context is impossible. And the
reason I say that, using an analogy with the equity markets, is that it
is quite possible for all equity markets to fall simultaneously, as they
did in 1987, but is impossible for all currencies to fall simultaneously.
<BR>
<BR>
Clients have a base currency risk that if he is unhedged and his basic currency
suddenly, sharply and discontinuously appreciates, he will lose value on
his foreign holdings. Conversely, if he is fully hedged going into a sudden
depreciation in his base currency, then he has a cash loss on his hedged
portfolio. But that risk is minimal and can be understood and can be managed.
<BR>
<BR>
In the general context I think we will see individual currencies encounter
difficulties , but that is not going to affect the value of a well invested
portfolio. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas:</B> But of course there is a more subtle point. Even if there
is not going to be an overlay-triggered meltdown in the foreign exchange
markets and dynamic hedging does not affect the markets, investors still
have to decide between buying an option and using portfolio insurance to
replicate the option. When should they do which? <BR>
<BR>
The answer is, if the volatility in the market turns out to be greater than
the implied volatility of the option, you're going to wish that you'd bought
the option rather than bought portfolio insurance. So you're making a bet
when you buy portfolio insurance that volatility will stay low relative
to implied volatility. Or am I wrong? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor: </B>Yes, I'd say you are wrong because you're making
assumptions that the replicators are using a Black Scholes-based process
to create that replication and therefore the pay-off profile and its exposure
to changing volatility and gapping in the markets is the same as the Black
Scholes priced option the customer could have purchased instead. And that's
not necessarily the case. It's also not the case that the currency overlay
process can be directly related to an option replication process. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Actually if you use constant proportion portfolio insurance,
you're also exposed to volatility moves. In fact, regardless of the type
of dynamic overlay investors purchase, whether or not they are explicitly
based on Black Scholes, if volatility turns out to be very high they are
going to wish they had bought an option. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio:</B> Implied and historic volatilities are usually
very close to one another. There are a few exceptions - dollar-yen being
one of the major ones for the time being where implied volatility is in
the 13% or 14% level for the six month period and historical volatility
is in the nines or tens. But in most instances, under normal market conditions
you have implied volatilities plus or minus 1%, compared to implieds. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So you're suggesting you might as well buy options? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio: </B>Exactly. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly: </B>Wait a moment. The proponents of options buying are right
and so are the dynamic hedgers. There are times when dynamic hedging will
win and there are times when options will win. The key is, can you predict
when one will beat the other? Now, there is a strong correlation between
what volatility is experienced over the life of the option you are replicating
and whether you will out-perform the option with a dynamic hedging or portfolio
insurance strategy. <BR>
<BR>
However, given that volatility does have a habit of reverting back to some
mean, a fairly simple strategy of selling volatility, or replicating an
option, when implied is high, and buying options when implied is low, over
the life of the option, does actually come out on top of either of the passive
alternatives of buying options or replicating options. <BR>
<BR>
Now funnily enough, that's something we are working on at NatWest Investment
Management. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Clive Laing: </B>Yes, the key is the predictability of that change in
volatility which makes the option or the dynamic hedging more attractive.
The problem is that that's premised on the reversion of volatility back
to the mean, and the difficulty there is the distribution of volatility
is such that it doesn't have a stable mean. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly: </B>It depends how you measure it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Isn't the reason people buy option replication rather
than options themselves that if you buy an option you explicitly see the
premium that you pay up-front, whereas if you engage in option replication
you don't? Perhaps clients don't understand that over the life of the programme
they are going to be paying that premium anyway? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>For the corporate customer this is critical. He does
not want to write a cheque for an option premium and will consider any strategy
that enables it to be reduced, deferred or removed. <BR>
<BR>
The plan-sponsor isn't cash- or profit-driven in the same way. He has no
underlying resistance to writing a cheque for an option premium but he wants
to minimize the amount of whatever cheque is written. He doesn't care if
it's today or in a year's time, whether it's a fixed amount or a stochastic
process. He just wants to be convinced that the average amount of that cheque
is going to be lower. <BR>
<BR>
So I would characterize dynamic hedging not so much as adding cash to the
client's kitty as cost reduction. Though few plan-sponsors would recognize
this is a benchmark we could say that our benchmark is to reduce the premium
we would otherwise have had to have spent in going into the currency option
market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So how do you do that? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Ultimately behind every purchased option is an uncovered
option writer, probably a financial institution. That option writer will
usually be required, to hedge that risk dynamically. <BR>
<BR>
So, would a plan-sponsor like to purchase a whole series of transactions,
each of which is undertaken in the prospect of a gain by a series of experts
in currency option markets who are ultimately pricing those options off
a process of dynamic hedging, or would he like to have the dynamic hedging
direct? <BR>
<BR>
Assuming for the sake of simplicity that the technique is identical in both
cases and presuming that option writers are in business to make a profit,
then over time, all things being equal, they will make that profit and the
ultimate cost to the customer of an buying option will be higher than buying
the underlying dynamic hedging process directly. Everything else is swings
and roundabouts. So it's a 'let's cut out the middle man argument'. <BR>
<BR>
The other half of the argument is that we the currency overlay manager are
experts in the replication of option pay-off curves and our mousetrap is
as effective, or more effective, than the banks' mousetrap and if that's
the case we can reduce the cost further. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio:</B> You are saying: 'Cut out all the intermediaries,
it's the banks that are managing this risk, so cut out the banks and come
to me.' <BR>
<BR>
But there are plenty of natural option writers. In equities you'll find
people who are perpetually sellers of calls on stocks. Why? Because they
own the stocks. So they do buy-writes. <BR>
<BR>
In foreign exchange if you look at dollar-yen, you have a whole lot of Japanese
exporters, who funnily enough are very happy selling dollar calls, and very
happy to buy dollar puts. <BR>
<BR>
So there is supply of options from natural end users and people who are
happy to earn premium against a position that they have. I think it's important
that we recognize that and not just think that it's only the banks who are
there managing these options. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>True, but I think that type of supply is dwarfed by
the interbank market, and I think I can show that by looking at the history
of liquidity in the London currency option market. <BR>
<BR>
In 1985 there was a tremendous expansion in the writing of options, largely
uncovered in the sense that they didn't have customers on the other side
and so being dynamically hedged. <BR>
<BR>
That year was an extremely volatile year in currencies. It was the turning
point of the dollar - March 1985 - and in the space of about 18 months after
that initial launch of enthusiasm into the writing of currency options,
there was a significant reduction in option writing capacity in the market.
This was because a number of the major banks had come in on the promise
that the costs of dynamic hedging and the option premium received was fairly
predictable and so there was a reasonably predictable margin to be earned.
<BR>
<BR>
In fact, plenty of large banks lost a lot of money because implied volatilities
were lower than historic and because they didn't understand the risks they
were taking. <BR>
<BR>
So there was a natural selection process. And I wonder whether that is correlated
with the fact that volatility from 1986 to 1991/92 was much lower. There
was a withdrawal of that capacity and therefore the perverse as it were
demands of these dynamic hedgers was reduced. <BR>
<BR>
Now there has been an increase in short-term volatility in the last three
or four years, and it is possible that this is partially the result of the
renaissance in option writing by international institutions. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor: </B>The 'cut out the middle man' argument is not
the only one in favour of dynamic hedging. <BR>
<BR>
With option replication the client ends up with a positively skewed distribution
of returns. You can set up a programme in such a way that you not only extract
value from the market but you keep it. So not only do you have a positively
skewed distribution of returns, you've actually moved the mean: medium to
long-term you extract value as well as reducing volatility. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>I would also add something that is not well known about
currency overlay: in trending markets, portfolio replication strategies
have positive expected returns because they tend to buy when the market
is going up and sell when it's going down. <BR>
<BR>
Now there is an oddity about currency markets which is that, applying all
the rigorous academic tests, they do trend. So option replication, just
by trying to manage risk and control return distributions, may actually,
as long as markets are trending, add expected return. So dynamic hedging
may be a direct competitor to traditional active currency managers, particularly
since many of them are also trend followers. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Active management - pros and cons</B> <BR>
<BR>
* What is currency active? <BR>
<BR>
* Is currency risk an opportunity? <BR>
<BR>
* What different strategies are there? <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Michael Huttman: </B>Well, we're not model driven, we are driven
by judgement and the analysis of fundamentals, some of them economics, some
of them social, some of them demographic, some of them political, all of
which depends on the pair of currencies and the time frame. <BR>
<BR>
We believe that the factors that affect currency movement change over time.
About 12 years ago there was a very clear link between money supply and
where currency rates were going. That then became trade then it became monetary
policy. <BR>
<BR>
Our framework is dramatically different from that of most overlay managers.
We believe the factors that affect currency markets move in fashions and
what is important is to gain insight into those fashions, rather than to
use a static econometric framework. <BR>
<BR>
Now, it is true that the market is hungry for dynamic hedging products.
This is because they are easy to explain to the board. Our argument against
dynamic and model hedging is that while it works fine in stable markets,
it falls down when markets gap. So, in periods of calm, you can use replication
- the auto-pilot so to speak - but in periods of turbulence you need a real
pilot. That's when some of the models that we've been talking about, including
active econometric models that are also black-box driven and which do not
necessarily try to replicate options, breakdown. And they don't just slow
down the return impact of gapping markets, they crash. We try to take into
consideration the periods in which there are stable relationships that then
can be interpreted and built into a portfolio. <BR>
<BR>
However, in one unusual way, option replication and active hedge fund strategies
employ a similar trading pattern: pyramiding. Pyramiding is to keep on increasing
your position when you are right and you could argue that hedge funds that
do this are actually trading the delta of their portfolio, and so are doing
portfolio insurance. <BR>
<BR>
However, the successful hedge funds do not follow this strategy in a vacuum
using a black box that is never questioned, they apply judgement. <BR>
<BR>
Now it's interesting to note that the dynamic hedgers are paranoid on risk
and cost reduction, and the hedge funds are totally paranoid in objective
on high return. At Millennium our focus is try to balance this risk-return
profile by applying a process that takes both sets of aims into consideration.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Virginia Parker: </B>We also believe that by adding active currency management
investors can boost the returns of their portfolios very significantly.
Let me give you an example. <BR>
<BR>
For 1995 the currency component of Eafe had a volatility of 10.9% annualized,
versus Eafe's volatility of 10% in local terms. <BR>
<BR>
Now, we all know that since 1987 if you hedged your Eafe currency risk,
as a US dollar-based investor, you lost the 52% of the return. <BR>
<BR>
But what if the investor takes that 10.9% volatility attributable to Eafe's
currency component and allocates it to active currency management and combines
that with hedged Eafe? <BR>
<BR>
According to research I have conducted on the performance of more than 40
active currency managers from January 1987 through September 1995, investors'
total return would be eight times greater than hedged Eafe. <BR>
<BR>
If one looks at the passive currency returns in Eafe for US dollar-based
investors, the story over the past eight years has been dollar/yen and dollar/mark,
hardly an optimal portfolio. Active currency management expands the investible
universe to include many currency pairs or cross rates. This diversification
shifts the efficient frontier outward. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So, although most people treat currency risk as a problem
that needs to be solved, it can be regarded as an opportunity to enhance
returns. Investors can take a portion of their portfolio and explicitly
treat it as another asset class. <BR>
<BR>
And maybe active management is the final development in the evolution of
overlay. What I mean is that ten years ago, people did not talk much about
currency risk at all. Then as overseas investment expanded, investors began
to look at whether they should hedge the currency exposures embedded in
their portfolios. <BR>
<BR>
The market, particularly the US market, made dynamic hedging its first choice.
Now is that the final equilibrium or is it a way station on the road from
not thinking about currencies at all to looking upon currency as a separate
asset class, as a source of return? Is the market going to move away from
dynamic hedging towards active currency management? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman: </B>Yes, and I think there are three main reasons.<B>
</B>First people are realizing that active management can generate positive
returns, though the market still needs to get comfortable with addressing
the currency issue. Second, when people hire overlay managers they don't
necessarily only hire one type of manager and so can try out an active manager
for just part of their currency management. And third, the range of active
managers is increasing: active managers can now be sub-divided into those
who are discretionary or judgmental and those who are model-driven - trend
followers, moving average followers, or whatever the more modern algorithms
are. <BR>
<BR>
It is also interesting to note that over the past five years, the excess
performance generated by active managers has been relatively low. This is
because some of those managers' assets have grown dramatically from $200-300
million to over $10 billion in a very short period of time and it becomes
very difficult to compound those amounts. <BR>
<BR>
I believe that there will be significant growth in the amount of money that's
allocated to active managers once those managers have generated performance
that's suitable within the risk framework that the client wants with the
degree of stability and low personnel turnover that they demand. I think
there is a very strong and growing future for active management. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>I must say I fundamentally disagree with Michael's assessment.
In the US plan sponsor market, I think there will always be a place for
every activity and I think there will continue to be a role for active currency
management. <BR>
<BR>
I suspect it is more likely to be in a well-defined alternative investment
area in which the successful managers will build their assets. Now there
are plenty of assets there, but it will still be, in my opinion, a very
small allocation in the total. <BR>
<BR>
At the moment there is a trend away from dynamic hedging towards passive
management, towards fixed ratios. So I am predicting that what is going
to happen in currency is what has happened in the equity market. Namely,
we now have very large volumes of assets in index portfolios for all the
reasons we have been discussing: cost, stability, risk avoidance. <BR>
<BR>
People have recognized that if you pick a 50% hedged benchmark and you just
run that in a very liquid market you capture many of the advantages of currency
overlay and none of the disadvantages. <BR>
<BR>
And I predict that growth in assets under overlay management depends on
us providing that kind of product at very low cost. <BR>
<BR>
<HR><B>Benchmarking overlay</B> <BR>
<BR>
* Standard benchmarks can be inappropriate. <BR>
<BR>
* Appropriate benchmarks are more complex. <BR>
<BR>
* Complex is better. <BR>
<BR>
* What different strategies are there? <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Lee Thomas:</B> What is the appropriate benchmark for a dynamic hedger?
The profile you are going for is a kink. It's not a straight line. <BR>
<BR>
A fully hedged benchmark is a straight line with one particular slope and
an unhedged benchmark is a straight line with another particular slope.
Neither one of those looks anything like the pay off that the dynamic hedger
is trying to achieve. So it would seem that neither one of those is appropriate
as a benchmark for a dynamic hedging programme. What do you recommend your
clients use as benchmarks? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>The answer is a compromise. That is, a 50% benchmark
is a good benchmark if you are a dynamic hedger because it means you can
win against it whether the base currency is weak or strong. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor: </B>A 50% hedge benchmark does tend to be the one
normally used to judge whether a dynamic hedging strategy is working in
the short-term because it takes out the directional bias. <BR>
<BR>
However, you have the problem that with that benchmark you can end up being
fired for the wrong reasons and benchmarking is the critical issue in establishing
a relationship with a pension plan. <BR>
<BR>
Plan sponsors must set their objectives clearly. If those objectives are
genuinely to try to pick up upside and to protect against downside then
you are leaning towards some kind of kinked option pay off as being your
benchmark. The difficulty is getting plan sponsors to accept an option-like
pay-off as the benchmark and I think we are very long way from resolving
that issue. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Yes. I believe that the appropriate benchmark is an option.
At the beginning of the year you could determine how much it would cost
to buy an option on the relevant currency basket and make that the benchmark.
A dynamic hedger would have to beat that if he were to claim he was adding
value. Is that a fair benchmark? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>Interestingly we have used that as a benchmark against
which we charge our clients performance fees - but only corporate clients.
They recognize the instruments and say: 'I want an option. Either I go and
buy one from the market now today, or you dynamically replicate one, and
we will judge your results on the cost of your dynamic replication versus
the cost in the market.' Plan sponsors do not. <BR>
<BR>
We have used this benchmark for 12 years now and broadly speaking it is
a good judge of whether we are an efficient replicator of options. I think
that it's extremely unlikely that particularly US plan sponsors will take
it up and the difficulty is one of measurement - when did you buy the option,
what time, at what volatility and so on. <BR>
<BR>
One of my colleagues has suggested an interesting variation that he has
called a hedge perfection index. Suppose you can buy an option on each occasion
you want one for a zero premium. That is easy to define - it is what he
calls the hedge perfection index. <BR>
<BR>
We know we will be worse than that, so the question is, how close to that
perfect hedge does buying an option get you, or running a dynamic strategy
or running a passive hedge, or running an unhedged or a fully hedged portfolio.
<BR>
<BR>
Of course you will always be worse than the benchmark but at least the difference
is measurable. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor: </B>We've had some success in discussing this issue
with clients. While the US market will take some time to accept it, in the
Australian market, which arguably is more advanced, we have a very large
public pension fund client who uses a basket option as the benchmark against
which we are measured. <BR>
<BR>
To avoid the issue of when the option is bought they price a one-year basket
option purchased every quarter as the benchmark against which we are measured.
They like it because they can see very clearly when they should be happy
and when they shouldn't. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>I'm struck by an interesting parallel. The decision between
option replication and buying options seems to rest on an ability to forecast:
the manager can add value by forecasting volatility and switching back and
forth from one strategy to the other depending on his views on the relationship
between implied and historic volatility. <BR>
<BR>
That seems rather similar to the methods of the more traditional active
foreign exchange managers who say that they add value by forecasting exchange
rates. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record: </B>But at least two of the managers here will claim that
they make money by neither forecasting exchange rates nor forecasting volatility,
and I think that's quite common amongst dynamic managers. <BR>
<BR>
As I have said, we want to to reduce the premium we would otherwise have
to spend in the currency option market. It is then a question of designing
and implementing a process which does that. I don't think that is a question
of guesswork - and I think the question of forecasting volatility is, in
a sense, as much guesswork as forecasting exchange rates. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Liquidity in the FX market</B> <BR>
<BR>
* Liquidity is falling in terms of market makers. <BR>
<BR>
* Investors should pay attention to liquidity issues. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Nick Douch: </B>One of the assumptions that underlies almost everything
we're saying today is that we've got 24 hour liquid markets and I think
we've got to be a little careful. We need to distinguish between turnover
and liquidity because they are not the same thing. <BR>
<BR>
Liquidity has fallen over the last five years in terms of market makers
and the amounts you can deal in as market makers. The increased turnover
simply reflects that lack of liquidity - it is the same deals going round
and round trying to find the ultimate buyer. <BR>
<BR>
The normal foreign exchange multiplier is about ten and it can go up as
far as twenty according to the Bank of England survey. And I think it goes
a lot higher than that on occasion. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Stefan Gavell: </B>The cost of transacting foreign exchange is still
among the lowest of any financial instrument and if indeed liquidity is
shrinking then those costs should be rising. There is no clear evidence
that they are. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Paul Duprey: </B>But liquidity is an issue. What worries me is that in
the London market and in the New York market, people are pulling out. You
are finding that major European banks, instead of having three or four offices
in Europe all doing foreign exchange, there is just one. So this wave effect,
the foreign exchange multiplier that Nick was talking about earlier that
turns an order of $2/3/400 million into ten times as much recorded turnover,
is becoming more of an issue. The Federal Reserve published a paper earlier
this year on relative liquidity in the New York market and it makes interesting
reading. <BR>
<BR>
This fall in liquidity may affect the performance of what you are trying
to achieve over and above a given benchmark. That is the issue. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Overlay in emerging markets</B> <BR>
<BR>
* Emerging markets present fundamental currency risk management decisions.
<BR>
<BR>
* Overlay may not be appropriate. <BR>
<BR>
<bR><B>Michael Huttman: </B>What is interesting is that the investible universe
of currencies has been growing in number, not diminishing but overall liquidity
to the end-user is dropping. This brings with it the problems of emerging
markets. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Johnson: </B>In emerging markets the currency can start to be
considered as an asset class though yes, you are playing an interest rate
game as well. But I think that is a very distinct business to one that we
traditionally understand here as currency overlay business. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Nick Douch: </B>The real problem with emerging market currency hedging
is that the markets are discontinuous. A number of these currencies, arguably,
are much more predictable than the major currencies over the medium-term.
They're linked to baskets, they have predictable crawling pegs, and so on.
However, there is a point at which their volatility becomes enormous - at
the time of a devaluation or revaluation. The secret is to know when you're
entering one of those phases. <BR>
<BR>
Some of the Eastern European currencies have been very attractive, you've
been able to pick up points every single day with virtually no currency
risk for the last, in the case of the Czech crown, five years. That may
continue for another year but there is the chance at some point that you
suddenly get a 10% or a 5%, or a 2% devaluation. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>That's a job for active management rather than anything
that a passive hedge could do. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Jacques Mosseri-Marlio: </B>Is it not possible that people base their
investment decisions on the currency? So they may say that they like the
market but do not like the country and currency and so they don't look at
that market at all. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>It is quite possible that there are still people who
say I only buy a market when I like both the currency and the market. However,
I hope that we have moved sufficiently along the path of education that
most investment managers understand that it is possible to buy the market
and hedge the currency and so have the best of both worlds. <BR>
<BR>
That is not to say that it is unreasonable to believe that an asset market
itself is seldom attractive unless the currency itself is also attractive
on fundamental macroeconomic grounds. But it is to distinguish that from
the person who simply doesn't understand that it is possible to separate
the asset and currency investment decisions. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly: </B>Yes, and I think that the increased use of conventional
vanilla derivatives for asset allocation has helped people understand that.
The interesting feature about those instruments is that they are naturally
hedged. <BR>
<BR>
If you sell the DAX future to reduce your exposure to German equities and
buy Dutch bond futures, you are forced to take the decision whether you
want to take the currency hit at the same level or not. This natural two-stage
decision process helps investors to make that two asset class step. That
has been quite useful, certainly in selling the idea of separation of currencies
an asset class and has meant that we can bring to investors' attention the
point that since they have to make the two steps, they might as well make
both of them with as much thought as possible. That has contributed to the
ease with which UK institutional investors have accepted the idea of overlay.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Nick Douch: </B>In emerging markets though you often can't hedge currency
risk effectively and so you have to make both those decisions at the same
time: if you like the market you have to like the currency. <BR>
<BR>
The danger is that this decision is made passively: an investor likes the
market and makes a passive decision on the currency. You can see that in
Mexico where people are saying, 'this market's great,' and yet if you ask
them, they all see the currency weaker by 15%-20% in a year's time. Do they
actually think the market is going to be 15-20% stronger in a year's time?
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Do Mexican Brady bonds have exposure to the Mexican peso,
even though they're denominated in dollars? If so, you could have currency
exposure without an accounting exposure, and even when you think you have
hedged your exposure away. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Johnson: </B>I think there is a second order of exposure. If
we take the example of the Mexican peso collapsing beyond invisibility because
of some economic crisis then we could assume they would not be able to service
their Brady Bonds. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>So in the case of Mexico you can choose to have credit
risk but no direct currency risk, or you can have credit risk and currency
risk. It must be other countries that you have in mind where portfolio managers
do not have a choice. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Nick Douch: </B>You have an increased credit risk in the Brady bond over
<I>Cetes. </I>The government can print money to pay off domestic currency
obligations but cannot do that with foreign currency denominated debt. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Johnson: </B>Hedging will get easier. Increasingly international
corporates and governments will be borrowing in emerging market currencies
- witness the development of the Euro-rand market and the Euro-Czech crown
market - and swapping back into their hard currencies. That makes them buyers
of those emerging market currencies forward and so you will see the start
of capacity to buy hedging. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Stefan Gavell: </B>The early-warning aspect is important and a lot of
our research work is focused on developing investment flow models that give
some idea as to what the intensity of flows in or out of a particular currency
are. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Lee Thomas: </B>Thank you all very much. <BR>
<BR>
<bR>
<H2>Participants </H2>
<B>Paul Duprey</B>,<B> </B>HSBC MIDLAND, head of institutional foreign exchange
sales specializing in sales to fund management groups. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Johnson</B>, assistant director, emerging markets currency group,
HSBC MIDLAND, specializing in currency and cross-border hedging strategies
for corporate clients and currency fixed-income for investors.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Bob Jolly</B>, director of fixed-income and currency, NatWest Investment
Management, dealing with managed currency as an asset class as well as currency
management for clients.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Neil Record, </B>founder and chairman of Record Treasury Management,
a $4 billion dynamic currency overlay manager. Clients include European
corporations and European and US pension plans<B>.<BR>
<BR>
Jacques Mosseri-Marlio</B>, director of foreign exchange, fund management
and financial investment, BZW, specializing in options, in particular exotic
options to a wide variety of customers.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Nick Douch</B>, managing director, GMM and foreign exchange, BZW, specializing
in exposure management and emerging markets. <BR>
<bR>
<B>Simon Wilson-Taylor</B>,<B> </B>head of currency overlay at State Street
global banking and financial markets. As an institution State Street has
about $10 billion of currency under management.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Stefan Gavell</B>, general manager of State Street global banking and
financial markets. State Street provides foreign exchange execution and
risk management services to institutional investors.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Michael Huttman</B>, managing director of Millennium Asset Management
a firm set up in 1994 specializing in currency overlay management by a team
that left Goldman Sachs Asset Management.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Dr Lee Thomas</B>, senior international portfolio manager, Pacific Investment
Management Company, a manager of largely institutional funds with around
$76 billion under management ($9 billion in non-dollar bonds.)<BR>
<BR>
<B>Virginia Parker</B>, President, Parker Global Strategies, a firm that
develops and implements alternative investment strategies for institutional
investors in the global foreign exchange, fixed-income and equity markets.<BR>
<BR>
<B>Clive Laing</B>, managing director and chief investment officer, PanAgora
Asset Management, a company investing globally in equities, bonds, and currencies.
<BR>
<p>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="gi.96.02.index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-47</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-128</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.02.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121258 text/html 6286
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:12:07 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 09:21:01 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6041
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: February 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: February 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue:February 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.02.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.96.02.1.html"><b>Managing currency risk</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
No international investor should ignore the issue of currency risk management.
Whether you want to reduce volatility or enhance returns, whether you invest
in bonds or equities, there is a strategy to suit your portfolio. <I>Simon
Brady</I>. 
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>EQUITY   </b><br>
Should you bother with IPOs? <br>
Straightforward corporate IPOs are risky, volatile and unpredictable. Privatizations
are even worse. So is there any way to pick the winners or is it better
to avoid them completely? 
<I>Kieran Higgins</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>M&amp;A ARBITRAGE</b><br>
Despite the continued surge in M&amp;A volumes, investors have found it
difficult to capitalize on the leaps in targets' prices. Some large institutions
have played key roles in transactions, but what can others learn from their
manoeverings and from the arbs? <I>Tim Hyam</I>.
<br><br>  
<b>PROFILES</b><br>
The magnificent seven <br>
This year bond and equity markets will be hard to call. <I>Joanna Wrighton</I>
asks seven of today's most successful managers for their tips and strategies.
<br><br>  
<b>OFFSHORE FINANCIAL CENTRES</b><br>
Setting up offshore<BR>
The legal complexities of setting up an offshore fund can be daunting, but
the advantages for fund managers and end investors are substantial. <I>Benjamin
Ensor.</I>
<br><br>  
 
</td>
</tr>







<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
Citibank buys Harris Bank's custody business | EU directive bad for investors
|The volatility fund | Nenpuku ultimatum | Connecticut restructures | PEOPLE
<BR><BR>
<b>MOVES</b><br>
UK equity mandate for Barr Rosenberg | Schroder wins Southwark mandate |
Abtrust wins emerging markets
mandate | Connecticut fires 45 managers, hires 22 | Wellcome Trust redistributes
assets<BR><BR>

<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
New custody unit at State Street | Wellcome to State Street | Yorkshire
chooses Midland | BAM appoints Barclays | IN BRIEF 
<br><br> 
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
Taking control of your portfolio <br>
Shareholder value and issues of corporate governance will spread, pushing
up excess returns.
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
Getting the right mix <BR>
As Wall Street hits new highs, investors' attention turns to Japan in spite
of its recent volatility. European equities are more difficult to judge.
<br><br> 
<b>ECONOMIC VIEW  </b><br>
Technology gains spread<BR>
The information age should bring with it improved economic growth with low
inflation and buoyant equity prices. But will it?
<br><br>
<b>FUNDS  </b><br>
Chile outperforms in December <br>
In a volatile month for emerging market funds, NM Rothschild's Five Arrows
Chile fund was a top performer.
<br><br> 
 

</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-48</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B046-113</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1q.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123008 text/html 30302
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:29:10 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:26:16 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 30091
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p>


<Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Top banks in the key cross-rates</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">

<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
US dollar/Deutschmark</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
86</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
83</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
75</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
56</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
12</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
BHF</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
13</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Dresdner</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Kredietbank</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Sterling/Deutschmark</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
48</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
37</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
36</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Royal Bank of Scotland</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Commerzbank</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Sterling/US dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
80</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
78</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
71</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
59</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
58</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 US dollar/Swiss franc</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
55</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
53</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NationsBank</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*These banks, which merged earlier this year,</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
were ranked separately by respondents</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 US dollar/yen</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
57</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Fuji Bank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Mitsubishi Bank*</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
11</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo*</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
11</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
IBJ</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
13</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
First Chicago</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
14</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
15</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
<TD>
Sumitomo</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Deutschmark/Swiss franc</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Generale Bank</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
West LB</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Deutschmark/yen</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Dresdner</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Fuji</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Mitsubishi*</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Deutschmark/French franc</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
BNP</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Paribas</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Deutschmark/peseta</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
35</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
West LB</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Deutschmark/lira</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
BCI</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Sterling/yen</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Fuji Bank</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Mitsubishi*</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo*</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Sumitomo</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Sanwa Bank</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Dm/Scandinavian currencies</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Enskilda </TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Svenska Handelsbanken</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Den Danske Bank</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 US dollar/Australian dollar</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
ANZ</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Westpac</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
CBA</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
National Australia Bank</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
NationsBank</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 US dollar/Canadian dollar</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Royal Bank of Canada</TD>
<TD>
60</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
35</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Toronto Dominion</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Montreal</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Nova Scotia</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
NationsBank</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*First-time rankings</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<p>

<B>Respondents were asked:</B> 

Which banks do you consider best when trading with the following cross-rates?

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-49</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-240</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1n.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122839 text/html 9756
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:27:33 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:26:50 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 9546
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p><Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Forwards</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Less than one year</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
109</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
90</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
81</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
55</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
42</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
41</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 More than one year</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
61</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
44</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
UBS</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Westpac</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Major currencies</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
97</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
96</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
61</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
47</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
46</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
SBC</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Credit Suisse</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Emerging market currencies</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
88</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
37</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*First-time ranking</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-50</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B045-82</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.1j.html 194.217.137.48 19970114122622 text/html 40202
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:25:09 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:27:51 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 39991
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML> <HEAD><TITLE>cover story</TITLE></HEAD> <BODY>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance Magazine"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>

<H3> <a href="cf.96.09.1.html">EMU WILL BRING '18 MONTHS OF HELL' </H3> </a> 


<p><Table border>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="center" COLSPAN=4><B>
Top banks by specified currencies</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Ecu</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Kredietbank</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 French franc</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale</TD>
<TD>
71</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
BNP</TD>
<TD>
61</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
39</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
37</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Indosuez</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
 Italian lira</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
58</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
BCI</TD>
<TD>
55</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
38</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
San Paolo</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Spanish peseta</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
40</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
39</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
21</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Banco Santander</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Lloyds</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Portuguese escudo</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
37</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
27</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Dutch guilder</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
135</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ING Bank</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Kredietbank</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
BBL</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Rabobank</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Belgian franc</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
46</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Generale Bank</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
41</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
37</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
BBL</TD>
<TD>
32</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Kredietbank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Lloyds</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Scandinavian currencies</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Svenska Handelsbanken</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Enskilda</TD>
<TD>
35</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Den Danske Bank</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Irish punt</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
NatWest/Ulster Bank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Ireland</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
AIB</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell</TD>
<TD>
13</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Hong Kong dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
71</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Singapore dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
57</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
51</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Thai baht</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
36</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Malaysian ringgit</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
60</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
49</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
45</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Indonesian rupiah</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Merrill Lynch</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Indian rupee</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Saudi riyal</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
25</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
12</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Tokyo</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Saudi American Bank</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 South African rand</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
52</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
39</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
31</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Canadian dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Royal Bank of Canada</TD>
<TD>
63</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
41</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
33</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Toronto Dominion</TD>
<TD>
26</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Montreal</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Nova Scotia</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
10</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Australian dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
50</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
Westpac</TD>
<TD>
39</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
ANZ Bank</TD>
<TD>
35</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
29</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
28</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
NatWest Markets</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
National Australia Bank</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
CBA</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
10</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
Barclays</TD>
<TD>
14</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 New Zealand dollar</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996</B></TD>
<TD><B>
'95</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
34</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Westpac</TD>
<TD>
30</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
23</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
ANZ Bank</TD>
<TD>
22</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
Standard Chartered</TD>
<TD>
16</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
7</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
CBA</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
8</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
National Australia Bank</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
9</TD>
<TD>
-</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Mexican peso</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
43</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Banamex</TD>
<TD>
19</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of America</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
9</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Argentinean peso</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
15</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
JP Morgan</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Brazilian real</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
17</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
ABN Amro</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bank of Boston</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Czech koruna</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
24</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
11</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
HSBC/Midland</TD>
<TD>
8</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Bayerische Vereinsbank</TD>
<TD>
7</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
5</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Chase Manhattan</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Polish zloty</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
20</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Creditanstalt</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
6</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
ING Bank</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left"><B>
 Hungarian forint</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
<TD ALIGN="right"><B>
</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD><B>
1996*</B></TD>
<TD><B>
</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Bank</B></TD>
<TD><B>
Total</B></TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
1</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Citibank</TD>
<TD>
18</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
2</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
ING Bank</TD>
<TD>
5</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
3</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Deutsche Bank</TD>
<TD>
4</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Dresdner</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR ALIGN="left" VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD>
4</TD>
<TD>
</TD>
<TD>
Goldman Sachs</TD>
<TD>
3</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
*First-time rankings</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
<TR VALIGN="bottom"><FONT FACE="Geneva">
<TD ALIGN="left">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
<TD ALIGN="right">
</TD>
</FONT></TR>
</Table>

<BR><BR> 
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-51</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-225</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.06.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120611 text/html 5891
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:05:21 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 25 Jun 1996 09:56:12 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5649
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: June 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.04.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.06.1.html"><b>Derivatives innovations</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
From real options and default swaps, to combined risk options and inflation
indexed financing... Our guide to the latest products, their applications
and their users, including detailed case studies.<BR>
Simon Brady &amp; Matthew Ball 

<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers  </b><br>
* More structured finance from Portugal. <BR>
* Brand valuation debate blazes. <BR>
* Upgrades to BoA and XRT systems. <BR>
* Treasurers and CFOs on the move. <BR>
* Hide the minutes of your board meeting. <BR>
* Irish Association's 10th birthday. <BR>
* Peugeot beats Ford to Poland. <BR>
* Forex flop in Frankfurt. 
<BR><BR>
<b>Forecasting   </b><br>
The peseta and the lira have strengthened on the back of perceived political
stability, but don't expect the honeymoon to last. Plus: our new interest
rate forecasting section.<BR>
Jeremy Adams 
<BR><BR>
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
The European Commission has finally issued a proposal for a directive on
a new takeover code . Some members of the EU may not be impressed. <BR>
Fran&ccedil;ois Feuillat 
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Global repo  </b><br>
As more markets open and gilt repo begins to flourish there has never been
a better time for treasurers to take another look at this exciting product.<BR>
Peter D'Amario of BZW 
<BR><BR>
<b>South Africa    </b><br>
Companies from this country are ready to expand abroad, and while most look
set to continue using traditional domestic financing sources a select few
have become sophisticated innovators.<BR>
Charles Olivier 
<BR><BR>
<b>The rand     </b><br>
After a period of volatility for the South African currency the attitude
of foreign investors will determine where the rand goes next.<BR>
Chris Tinker 
<BR><BR>
<b>Offshore centres   </b><br>
How to choose between Dublin, the Netherlands and Belgium when deciding
where to locate your European treasury centre. <I>Plus</I>: a list of the
tax benefits available in other jurisdictions. <BR>
Gwenan Roberts 
<BR><BR>
<b>Equity strategy    </b><br>
As utilities in the UK merge, their share prices are falling. Here is a
detailed proposal for water companies, under pressure to please the regulator
as well as their shareholders, that will solve their problems.<BR>
Matthew Ball &amp; Angela Whelan <BR>
<BR>
The next issue of Corporate Finance will be published on July 1, 1996 
<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-52</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B039-136</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.09.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120510 text/html 6058
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:04:22 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 16:24:52 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5811
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: September 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<P>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.09.1.html"><b> Foreign exchange - The Emu nightmare</b></a><br><font size=3>

  Our
annual FX survey reveals that treasurers are increasingly worried about the
complications of changing to a single European currency. As for their favourite
FX banks, Citi tops the charts once again, but Chase, HSBC and Deutsche are
catching up.<br>

<i>Kieran Higgins</i><BR><br>

</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers</b><BR>

<b>News and views </b>

<br> * Latins cheat the sovereign ceiling.

<br> * How Thorn EMI coped with demerging.

<br> * Russians aim to strike gold in London.

<br> * The leader in Canadian workstations.

<br> * Who needs synergies in M&amp;A?

<BR><br>


<b>Forecasting </b><br>

<b> The NatWest way </b><br>

David Kern of NatWest Group
explains how he and his team make their currency forecasts. Plus: our interest
rate forecasting section.<br>
<i>Jeremy Adams</i>

<br><br>

<b> M&amp;A monitor </b><br>


<b> Deals &amp; developments </b><br>
 A tally of the
month's most significant corporate acquisitions.<br>
<i> Kieran Higgins</i>



<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>



<B> Netherlands </B><br>
<B> Dutch discussion </B><br> A
treasurers' round table reveals the strategies of Dutch corporates for risk, cash
and treasury management. Plus: DSM's share buyback. <BR> 
<i>Charles Olivier</i>

<br><br>

<B> Central Europe </B><br>
<B> End of the easy deal </B><br> Foreign acquirers
coming to the region are finding bargains harder to come by. Insider knowledge is
critical, as buyers without it have discovered to their cost.<BR> 
<i>Jeremy Adams</i>
<br><br>

<B> Asia</B><br>
<B>Capital raising top tips </B><br>
More and more Asian corporates are flocking to the international capital markets, 
but their inexperience could lead to a string of failures. Here are the experts' views 
on how they can ensurea successful debut. Plus: Reliance Industries and PLDT explain 
their borrowingstrategies.<BR> 
<i>Kieran Higgins</i>
<br><br>

<B> Capital raiser </B><br>
 <B> Funding alternatives </B><br>
 How to assess the myriad financing opportunities available in today's market.<BR> 
<i>Jeremy Froud of BZW</i>
<br><br>

<B>Treasury manager </B><br>
<B>Tricks of the trade </B><br>  From investor
relations to data sharing, treasurers at mid-size North American companies have
acquired an impressive range of skills.<BR> 
<i>Jeremy Adams</i>
<br><br>

<B> Energy </B><br>
<B> Why projects fail </B><br>
 Emerging market power projects
are prone to delays, but these can be avoided.<BR> 
<i>Mickael Chia &amp; Rob Mallick</i>


 <BR><BR>

<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-53</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-132</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.01.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120858 text/html 6146
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:08:03 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:13:24 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5901
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: January 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: January 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: January 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.01.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.01.1.html"><b>Euro MTN bonanza</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Ten years ago the first EuroMTN programme was launched. Now the market has
outgrown its US rival. The search for new issues, more sophisticated borrowing
strategies and improvements in technology will dominate the market's next
decade. <I>Matthew Ball</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* Portugal's asset-backed first. <BR>
* New finance director at Pearson. <BR>
* Bust-up over IPO pricing. <BR>
* Too many stock exchanges in Europe. <BR>
* Treasurer's resignation stuns GM. <BR>
* UPS makes cut-price Eurobond debut. <BR>
* Computer chaos as year 2000 nears. <BR>
* Olympic Games for corporates.<br>
<br> 
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
Food and drinks companies have finished their spree of megadeals. Now they
are focusing on building the best brand portfolios and acquiring manufacturers
in emerging markets. <I>Claire Cozens </I>
<br><br> 
<b> Risk management</b><br>
Differences in oil contracts can lead to a subtle form of basis risk. <I>Liz
Gall</I>
<br><br>

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 
<b>Private placements</b><br>
Tight spreads and standardized documentation are tempting foreign issuers
back to US traditional private placements.<I> Jeremy Adams</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Technology Focus Survey </b><br>
A recent survey shows that 80% of companies intend to change their technology base within the next five years. Improvements in reporting and links between
treasury and other business units are among their highest priorities. <I>David
Knight &amp; Sarah Pask</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Innovations </b><br>
Corporates may be impressed by the many technological improvements announced
lately by their cash management banks, but they are concerned about how
to react to mergers between them. <I>Matthew Ball</I>
<br><br> 
<b>  Case studies  </b><br>
New treasury systems suppliers are confident of winning corporate business
from established rivals, who seem preoccupied with takeovers. Which one
should you choose? Executives at IBM Dublin, Volvo Construction, Schlumberger,
Ingram Industries, Compaq and Lloyds Bowmaker discuss their decisions and
the problems of implementation. <I>Anne Quer&eacute;e</I>
<br><br> 
<b> Data</b><br>
A comprehensive list of which companies are using which treasury system. </I>
<br><br> 
<b>Balance sheet</b><br>
Corporate treasurers should welcome the proposed revisions to UK cashflow
statements. <I>Jyoti Ghosh</I><BR>
<br> 
<b>Insurance</b><br>
Corporate executives are increasingly vulnerable to lawsuits over environmental
pollution. Directors' and officers' insurance policies have been slow to
adapt - until now. <I>Claire Cozens </I>
<BR><br>

</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-54</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-174</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.95/cf.95.12.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120940 text/html 6717
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:08:40 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:13:18 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6471
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: December 1995
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: December 1995
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: December 1995
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.95.12.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.95.12.1.html"><b>Capital raiser of the year</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
In an exclusive interview, Sandoz CFO Raymund Breu explains how he refinanced
his company's $3.8 billion acquisition of Gerber Foods via one of the most
impressive programmes ever undertaken.
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* SAP sets out plans for 1996. <BR>
* Acquisition targets for XRT. <BR>
* Sormunen leaves Nokia's treasury. <BR>
* Merck: cheap money, poor performance.<br>
<br> 
<b> Taxation  </b><br>
The latest amendments to the taxation of gilts and bonds demand a sophisticated
response from corporate treasurers.
<br><br> 

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 
<b>Deals of the year </b><br>
Our annual awards for the most successful and innovative corporate debt
and equity issues.
<br><br> 
<b>House of the year </b><br>
Off all the recent combines, SBC Warburg is the most likely to take on the
US powerhouses and win.
<br><br> 
<b>Emerging markets borrower of the year</b><br>
The borrowing strategy of Globo's Mauro Molchansky has allowed the Brazilian
media group to access the Euromarkets at a time when rivals have encountered
difficulty in raising funds in foreign public markets.
<br><br> 
<b> Equity </b><br>
AT&amp;T's takeover of McCaw Cellular was a strategic coup, but rival British
Telecom ended up with more than $2bn in AT&amp;T stock. The holding was
divested this year. Here's how. Plus Repsol, Pearson, Portugal Telecom,
E Merck and Ericsson.
<br><br> 
<b> Eurobonds</b><br>
Glaxo Wellcome took advantage of its rarity value to launch debut deals
in dollars and sterling that were snapped up by a hungry market. Plus Usinor,
Yorkshire Electricity and Coca-Cola Amatil.
<br><br> 
<b>Foreign placements</b><br>
Bayer Corp's debut 144A deal took advantage of narrowing spreads in the
Yankee market just before they widened. Pricing resembled that on an SEC-registered
bond. Plus GrandMet, Repsol, Telekom Malaysia, Petronas, Eskom<BR>
<BR>
<b> Equity-linked</b><br>
Sandoz's duo of convertibles demonstrated how a sophisticated equity-linked
issue can achieve a range of corporate finance objectives and find almost
unprecedented levels of demand. Plus Roche, Sappi, YTL.
<BR><BR>
<b> Syndicated loans</b><br>
The $2.3bn commitment was in place but the company wasn't. When the formation
of polyolefin joint venture Montell was cleared the company's treasurer
rewarded the lenders for their patience. Plus France T&eacute;l&eacute;com,
Ashanti, Siemens.
<BR><BR>
<b>Project finance</b><br>
The $2.5bn deal for Paiton Energy was Asia's largest project financing,
but it took careful nurturing. Plus Qatargas, Fincantieri.
<BR><BR>
<b> Structured finance</b><br>
Merrill Lynch's aluminium-linked loan for Dubal demonstrated how to achieve
cost-effective funding while hedging underlying exposures.
<BR><BR>
<b>Equity</b><br>
Petronas Gas' $1.4bn IPO, the first large liquid Malaysian
equity issue since 1992, met massive demand. Plus Ashok Leyland, Mosenergo.
<BR><BR>
<b>Bonds</b><br>
After last year's successful global bond, PLDT came back for
more with a two-tranche offering that reaffirmed the company as one of the
best emerging-market corporate names. Plus Telecom Argentina, CEZ, Perez
Companc.
<BR><BR>


<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-55</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-96</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.02.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120824 text/html 5909
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:07:24 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:13:25 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5663
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: February 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: February 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: February 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.02.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.02.1.html"><b> Ashanti's exploits</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Since its flotation in 1994 Ghana's Ashanti Goldfields has become a leading
player in African gold mining. The company's full listing on the NYSE and
its takeover of UK-quoted Cluff Resources show that it will go outside the
continent to achieve its aims. <I>Matthew Ball</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* Angel zeroes in on cheap funds. <BR>
* Record year for German M&amp;A. <BR>
* US companies safe from frivolous suits. <BR>
* ADRs set to surge. <BR>
* Ratings blow for Europe. <BR>
* Solution to risk conundrum. <BR>
* All change in UK corporate banking.<br>
<br> 
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
Granada's successful bid for Forte is just the start of a wide-ranging boom
in hotel M&amp;A. <I>Claire Cozens</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Risk management </b><br>
Indonesian conglomerate Dharmala sued Bankers Trust over losses on swaps
arranged in 1994. And lost. The case gives corporate treasurers an excellent
insight into the difference between a derivatives provider and a bank adviser.
<I>Matthew Ball</I>
<br><br>
<b>Capital raiser </b><br>
Corporates flocked to the Eurobond market last month. Here's why.<BR>
<I>Euan Hagger</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 
<b>Technology </b><br>
Imaging techniques are now fulfilling their much-hyped promise. The benefits
extend beyond the US.  <I> Jean Dugan</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Cash management </b><br>
If your company is not netting, it should be. The technique is simple but
can save a lot. <I>Colleen Sidford </I>
<br><br> 
<b>Purchasing cards </b><br>
US companies have been saving time and money since 1989 with this piece
of plastic. Now it's the turn of the Europeans.<i>
Jeremy Adams</I>
<br><br> 
<b> Telecom financing<BR>
Non-recourse debt </b><br>
Consortia set up to build and operate mobile telephone networks in Europe
have found non-recourse bank debt to their liking. <I>Eric Lonergan</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Junk bonds</b><br>
The US high-yield debt market is attracting low-rated cable companies from
all over the world. <I>David Lake</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Repo</b><br>
Can the gilt repo market tempt cautious treasurers who have surplus cash? <i>Claire Cozens</I><BR>
<BR>
<b> Equity-linked finance </b><br>
A synthetic covertible may prove more cost-effective for an issuer than
a simpler, traditional covertible. But it may also prove less convenient. <I>
Stephen Neish  </i><BR>
<BR>
<br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-56</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-56</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/corpfinance/cf.96/cf.96.03.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114120751 text/html 6259
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:06:56 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:13:26 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6016
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: March 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Corporate Finance Magazine: March 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban9.gif" alt="Corporate Finance"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#reg"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo7.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: March 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="cf.96.03.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="cf.96.03.1.html"><b>How a CEO manages</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
The best chief executives choose one of five approaches to managing a global
corporate. They communicate their strategy effectively and inspire their
employees. Those who have adopted a different style run the risk of confusing
their staff, and losing their job. <I>
Matthew Ball &amp; Stephen Neish</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="reg"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra12.gif" alt="Regulars"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 

<b>Deals &amp; Dealmakers </b><br>
* Calpers' new governance targets. <BR>
* Guinness tries to tap US markets, again. <BR>
* More defaults from Mexican corporates. <BR>
* Anger at Fitch's unsolicited ratings. <BR>
* Unilever buys its way out of trouble. <BR>
* Donald Miller-Jones' new challenge. <BR>
* Pharmacia &amp; Upjohn's cheap merger.<br>
<br> 
<b>M&amp;A monitor </b><br>
Germany's new takeover code is inadequate and will not encourage companies
to look after small shareholders. <I>George Glass </I>
<br><br> 
<b>Viewpoint </b><br>
A new fund will help European film companies compete with their US rivals,
but it must be administered properly. <i>
Michael Kuhn of PolyGram</I>
<br><br>
<b>FX forecasting  </b><br>
Corporates should beware of an upcoming swing in the yen/dollar exchange
rate. <I>Jeremy Adams</I>
<br><br>
<b> Capital raiser   </b><br>
Caterpillar International Finance in Dublin has made its Euromarket debut.
Why is it so cagey about the details? <I>Jeremy Adams</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top> 
<b>Treasury management </b><br>
Centralizing treasury at Philips involves three regional centres, a new system to replace in-house software and a continuing focus on controls. <I>Anne Quer&eacute;e</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Securitization </b><br>
Volkswagen's successful auto-lease deal will not bring a rush of similar asset-backed public issues from corporates. Esoteric private transactions using bank conduits, however, are flourishing. <I>Mark Fisher</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Private companies </b><br>
Owners of private firms often make costly errors when divesting their holding. Here is a checklist to help avoid the pitfalls.<I>
Robert Gould &amp; Richard Witmer</I>
<br><br> 
<b>  Research </b><br>
Corporate relationships with bank analysts are under strain. Treasurers are ignoring free currency fax services and are paying small independent firms for more reliable views. But they should remember to treat influential equity researchers with respect. <I>Gwenan Roberts</I>
<br><br> 
<b>Taxation</b><br>
Is the hard line on transfer pricing adopted by tax authorities beginning to soften? Corporates scared of over-zealous scrutiny by the Internal Revenue Service hope so. <I>Chris Rolfe &amp; Andrew Casley </I>
<br><br> 
<b>Balance sheet</b><br>
How to link domestic and foreign costs of capital to help evaluate investments abroad.<I> Arnold Miyamoto</I><BR>

<BR><br>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-57</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B040-281</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.96/gi.96.07.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121105 text/html 6061
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:10:08 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 18 Jul 1996 09:53:20 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5820
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue: July 1996
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.96.07.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=3>
<a href="gi.96.07.1.html"><b>PDFM bets on a crash </a></b><br>
PDFM is Eurpean fund management's most dedicated disciple of value investing.
It is a creed that has served the firm well - until now. PDFM continues
to back its judgement even though the markets say it is wrong <BR>

<I>Joanna Wrighton</I><br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<B>1996 ASIAN BROKERS SURVEY</B>
<Br>
The old order changeth <BR>
As more investment dollars flow into Asia the competition for commissions
becomes ever more intense. For the integrated investment banks there is the prospect
of turning research expertise into underwriting 
fees. But that is not the only 
business strategy <BR>
<I>Andrew Capon</I><BR>
<BR>
<b>FUND MANAGEMENT M&amp;A</B><BR>
The seductions of scale<br>
In 1995 Goldman Sachs predicted that the money management industry would
consolidate to just two dozen players worldwide. Despite the pace of
acquisitions,
such predictions are extreme <BR>

<I>Benjamin Ensor</I><BR>
<BR>
<b>THE NETHERLANDS</b><br>
Dutch managers fight back<br>
Dutch fund managers are resisting an invasion of foreign firms by adopting
international standards <BR>

<I>Brian Zlotnick</I> <BR>
<BR>
<b>EMERGING MARKETS</B><br>
Reality check <br>
Have fund managers learnt the lesson of Mexico? <BR>

<I>Charles Olivier</I>
<BR>
<BR>

<b>1996 DERIVATIVES SURVEY </B> <BR>

Goldman Sachs sweeps the board in the 1996 Derivatives Survey. Can any other
firm challenge
its dominance? <BR>

<I>James Featherstone</I>
<br><br>

</td>
</tr>







<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT </b> <BR>

Rathnam to Schooner | The shaky future of currency overlay | Chase re-enters
institutional business | Russian route to 100% returns| London gains in
equity management <BR>
<BR>
<b>MOVES</b> <BR>

Gunning for Equitas | BAA cuts equity | Morgan Grenfell emerging markets
win | Convertible mandate to Putnam | Scudder wins LA cash <BR>
<BR>
<b>CUSTODY </b> 
<BR>
State Street cuts CalPERS fees - again| RBS rumoured buyer for CISD
| Citibank in Euroclear deal | Barclays goes remote with UBS | Chase in holy alliance <BR>
<BR>
<b>STRATEGIC INVESTOR </b> 
<BR>
Back to basics in emerging markets <BR>
<BR>
<b>FUNDS </b>
<BR>
Launching an investment trust <BR>
<BR>
<b>QUANT SHOP  </B>
<BR>
Are currency markets efficient? <BR>
<BR>
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION  </B>
<BR>
Economic recovery buoys equities <BR>
<BR>
<b>NEW IN THIS ISSUE </B>
<BR>
<b>Fund launch data  </B>
<BR>
<b>Depositary receipts  </B>
<BR>
<b>Practical derivatives </B>
<BR>
<b>Marketing intelligence  </B>
</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-58</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B041-198</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/globalinvest/gi.95/gi.95.11.index.html 194.217.137.48 19970114121358 text/html 5397
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:13:02 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 17 Jun 1996 09:21:23 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5152
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: November 1995
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Global Investor: Magazine: November 1995
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table width=470 border=0>

<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../images/conban11.gif" alt="Global Investor"><a href="../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<nobr>
<a href="#dept"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo4.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
<a href="#feat"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
<a href="#surv"><img width=35 height=131 border=0 src="../../images/pubdo8.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</nobr>
</td>

<td align=left valign=bottom>
<font color="292929" size=5>
<blockquote>
This Issue:November 1995
</blockquote>
</font>
<a href="../index.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr5.gif" alt="Back Issues"></a>
<br><br>
<a href="gi.95.11.1.html"><img width=249 height=32 border=0 src="../../images/conhr6.gif" alt="Cover Story"></a>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<font size=4>
<a href="gi.95.11.1.html"><b>The road to growth</b></a>
<br>
<font size=3>
Stocks in India are illiquid and volatile and the settlement system

is a nightmare. On the other hand, valuations are among the best in the
world, and as the market infrastructure improves, investors will need a
good reason not to be there. <I> Benjamin Ensor</I>
<br><br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="feat"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra6.gif" alt="Features"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>FUND MANAGEMENT  </b><br>
Stars in an emerging universe<br>
How to recognize the best manager in the emerging markets

<br><br>  
<b>BONDS</b><br>
  The wonderful world of debt  <br>
Investors concentrate on equity investment in the merging markets. They
should look at debt
<br><br>  
 
</td>
</tr>





<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="surv"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra13.gif" alt="Surveys"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>EUROPEAN SUB CUSTODY </b><br>
Banque Indosuez and Dresdner Bank on top  <BR>
A convincing win amid fierce competition 
<BR><BR>
<b>EUROPEAN BROKERS  </b><br>
Pawns in a bigger game<BR>
When Swiss Bank bought SG Warburg, it bought the best research team money
could buy 
<BR><BR>

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align=left valign=top>
<a name="dept"><img width=121 height=34 border=0 src="../../images/conra16.gif" alt="Departments"></a>
</td>
<td align=left valign=top>
<b>UPFRONT</b><br>
For sale | Wanted | Bullish in Bombay | Go east, young man | NatWest pools
resources | Nothing ventured | Lombard Odier to Hong Kong | PEOPLE | Focus
on funds

<b>CUSTODY</b><br>
Franklin appoints BoNY | BHF-Bank opts out | Hospital appoints Julius Baer
| Mitsubishi and Parkstone Group | Taken into custody| IN BRIEF 
<br><br>
<b>MOVES</b><br>
ABP vote of confidence in Baring | St. Louis county heads for distant shores
| Eaton Corp. moves abroad| IN BRIEF
<br><br> 
<b>QUANT SHOP</b><br>
One step at at time
<br><br> 
<b>ASSET ALLOCATION </b><br>
What to do when it growth grinds to a halt
<br><br> 
<b>ECONOMIC VIEW  </b><br>
Why Japan remains a mess
<br><br> 

</td>  
</table>

<br>

<nobr>
<a href="../index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 src="../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>


<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-59</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B047-115</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.06/em.96.06.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114131808 text/html 269797
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:15:57 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 16:44:20 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 269561
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00000600 Bond Trading -->
<!--00001500 Derivatives OTC -->
<!--00001900 Eurobond, Secondary -->
<!--00001800 Eurobond, Primary -->
<!--00004300 Risk Management -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
June 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3>Debt handlers and risk jugglers </H3>
<H4>Who are the world's best liability managers? In <I>Euromoney</I>'s annual
awards for major categories of borrower, overall winner is Sweden's National
Debt Office.
we examine the skills of the most advanced sovereign borrowers: with no
handy measure for return on assets or equity, how do they gauge their performance?
 The world's most enigmatic borrower, China. At our round table,
 five major debt-handlers bite back, telling us what they like
and dislike about the banks that serve them. We suggest how
investors and issuers might map for themselves the pricing of each new issue
and how it should trade after launching. But first, how do deals get done?
We follow two, reliving the thrills, frustrations and comic moments as the
candidates are brought to market. </H4><BR>
<HR width=60%><BR><BR><B><A HREF="#two-deals">Diary of two deals</A></B><BR>
<BR>
<B><A HREF="#best-borrowers">The world's best borrowers</A></B><BR>
<BR>
<B><A HREF="#sovereign-debt">The jugglers of sovereign debt</A></B><BR>
<BR>
<B><A HREF="#china">China - borrowing from the state</A></B><BR>
<BR>
<B><A HREF="#round-table">Round table: The borrowers talk back</A></B><BR>
<BR>
<B><A HREF="#new-issue">Can you get finer price discovery?</A></B><BR>
<bR><BR>
<H3><A NAME="two-deals"></A>A lesson in never giving up </H3>
<H4>Bringing borrowers to market can stretch the best bank and its staff
to breaking point, as revealed by this diary of two deals. The first involves
JP Morgan's year-long endurance test to bring the first corporate Polish
international issuer to market, in which we follow the deal right to the
signing itself. In the second, Salomon and SBC Warburg's successful Colombian
bond issue is watched from the trading floor as it is goes free to trade.
Steven Irvine keeps the diaries </H4>
There is a Polish television crew under a chandelier. The deputy prime minister
is here, and the location is the historic headquarters of Poland's oldest
bank, founded in 1870. The proceedings have all the razzmatazz of a Brady
plan signing. Whereupon the none-too-shy deputy prime minister produces
a pen with a flourish, and says &quot;regarde&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
In fact, it is <I>the</I> pen - the Polish Brady pen - the one which the
London Club of commercial bank debtors used to release Poland from its obligations
in 1994. It is to be given to 39-year-old Cezary Stypulkowski, president
of the most prestigious bank in the country, Bank Handlowy Warsaw - the
youngest president of any of Poland's numerous banks. He wears a tasteful,
worsted silk tie and takes the pen from Poland's third most powerful man,
who is also the minister of finance. It emerges (in a speech in Polish)
that the bank has bought the pen with a donation to &quot;Polish culture&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
The bank can afford to celebrate. It has just raised $100 million in the
international capital markets - or will have done once this closing is complete
- and is the first Polish issuer to do so, following the government's own
successful debut last June. And yet this signing ceremony for Poland's first
corporate issuer is taking place almost a year to the day after the issue
was first discussed with its lead manager, JP Morgan. A year in which both
the lead manager and the issuer have faced every conceivable difficulty.
<BR>
<BR>
Fortunately, this bit's easy. Stypulkowski sits down at a two-seater mahogany
table with Jean Facon, the most senior representative from JP Morgan. Thirty
seconds and two strokes of the Brady fountain pen later it's all over, and
there's a round of applause. Facon, in a stiff double-breasted suit, makes
a speech, translated into Polish, in which he explains that the money was
borrowed at less than 1% over what the US government has to pay when it
borrows, &quot;which is testimony to the respect Bank Handlowy commands&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
He continues: &quot;For our part, we had no difficulty placing bonds in
more than 15 countries. And to commemorate this historical day I am delighted
to present Mr Stypulkowski with another product of international cooperation
- a map of Poland produced in England in 1626 before Bank Handlowy was established.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski winds up with a speech in Polish and English. He says how far
JP Morgan has come in Poland. He remembers that before his first meeting
with Morgan, he received a call from a lady at the ministry of culture confirming
whether he would attend a meeting. &quot;I said, 'I am sorry but I can't.
I have a meeting with JP Morgan.' 'What is this JP Morgan?' she asks. 'It
is a triple-A bank,' I reply. 'What does it mean, a triple-A?' she asks.
I ask her what she thinks it means. She pauses for a second and then says,
'The association of anonymous alcoholics.'&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski laughs. &quot;I now say, let's go to the bar and get an upgrade.&quot;
<BR>
<P><CENTER>* * * </CENTER>
<P>The meeting he refers to was three-and-a-half years ago, and in the succeeding
period the anonymous alcoholics of JP Morgan invested a great deal of time
building a relationship with senior figures at the bank. In the case of
Stypulkowski it was not hard, since he does not try to hide his admiration
for the US investment bank - he frequently refers to Handlowy as the &quot;JP
Morgan of Poland&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
The other key relationship was formed between Elizabeth Littlefield, Morgan's
head of emerging market debt origination, and Handlowy's head of special
projects, Artur Nieradko, who joined the bank in 1992. He was formerly deputy
director of Poland's foreign finance department and had worked closely on
the Paris and London Club debt negotiations. Like Stypulkowski, his outlook
was international. He had returned from Texas to Poland after the fall of
communism, and was a keen promoter of the Eurobond idea. <BR>
<BR>
That idea moved closer to reality in May 1995 when Handlowy asked JP Morgan
to conduct a shadow credit rating. At this stage, Morgan was already mandated
to lead the sovereign's debut issue, and had an idea that Handlowy, a state-owned
bank, and the second best credit in Poland, might be next. <BR>
<BR>
The shadow rating was carried out over two days and on May 24 Littlefield
travelled to Warsaw to deliver the wrap-up presentation and verdict to Stypulkowski
and Nieradko. At the very end she jokingly pointed out that with the sovereign's
Eurobond coming in the next month, it would be a good idea for Handlowy
to do a Euro too. &quot;It would be a good way to end your speech tonight,&quot;
she said, referring to a reception dinner Handlowy was holding for visiting
conference guests attending a forum on new Polish issuers in the capital
markets. Littlefield then left for an appointment at the ministry of finance.
<BR>
<BR>
Afterwards, Stypulkowski told Nieradko, &quot;Yes, good idea, you may start
the preparations.&quot; A slightly shocked Nieradko asked him what he meant.
He replied, &quot;The JP Morgan proposal was a good one.&quot; This spontaneous
decision was all the more surprising because it was not the first time that
Littlefield had suggested mandating Morgan to do a Euro. She knew the bank
had received several proposals from rival investment banks, and that the
seven-man Handlowy board had reservations about the cost of doing one. Apart
from the fact that the bank did not need the funds, and that it could fund
itself more cheaply in the domestic market, the international syndicated
loan market was the more tempting proposition - several Czech banks had
recently obtained very tight terms. Some board members viewed a Eurobond
as simply an expensive public relations exercise. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Breathless</B> <BR>
<BR>
Littlefield returned to the Marriott hotel to get changed for the reception
that evening. She was in the lobby when a breathless Artur Nieradko patted
her on the shoulder. The lobby was crawling with bankers. Without saying
a word, Nieradko and Littlefield found a quiet corner. &quot;Listen, you
have a new project,&quot; said Nieradko. &quot;That will be the debut Eurobond
for Bank Handlowy. If you can't deliver, please tell me now.&quot; It was
proposed that at the reception, Stypulkowski would announce Handlowy's intentions,
but would not, as the bank president had originally wished, announce outright
that Morgan had already got the mandate. However, the fact that Littlefield
was sitting next to him at the head table gained some envious stares from
rivals. <BR>
<BR>
On May 29 Littlefield made a formal presentation to the board. It was decided
that if the republic of Poland was to issue on June 27, then Handlowy would
launch on July 27. &quot;Of course, this proved a little optimistic,&quot;
says Nieradko. <BR>
<BR>
In early June JP Morgan's lawyers arrived. Rachel Hatfield and Rosie Pirie
of Linklaters &amp; Paines began, together with JP Morgan, a five-day process
of due diligence meetings. In a meeting with the strategy department Hatfield
says her jaw hit the floor when they casually said Handlowy might be merged
or privatized. &quot;It was news to me,&quot; she says. And, obviously,
material news. A change in the bank's ownership status is one of the most
critical concerns a bondholder has. She returned to London to discuss the
options with Morgan, and how to get round this intractable uncertainty.
<BR>
<BR>
But there were other, more pressing problems. There was the issue of withholding
tax, and whether Handlowy would be exempted. The republic's Eurobond was
to be issued without it, but the state-owned bank was getting every indication
that, should it issue, it would not gain the same privilege. A formal application
(number one) was rejected in mid-June by the ministry of finance on the
grounds that it would set a bad precedent. Formal application number two
was sent a few weeks later - and again rejected. <BR>
<BR>
Handlowy had not given up, but the lawyers, White &amp; Case and Linklaters,
suggested some alternatives to avoid the problem of investors having to
pay withholding tax. One way was to set up a subsidiary in the Netherlands
- which is taxed only minimally - get it to issue, and then lend the funds
on to the bank itself. Another was to get Handlowy to issue in its own name
but to restrict placement of the bonds to jurisdictions that had double-taxation
treaties with Poland. This restricts the marketing process and the total
demand that can be tapped, which will be reflected in the pricing. Neither
option was satisfactory, so Nieradko decided to keep pressing the ministry.
<BR>
<BR>
He had time to do so, because the issue was derailed anyway, by a supervisory
board meeting on June 26. The bank could only issue if it called a general
assembly of its shareholders - that is, went and saw the ministry of finance
- and got approval from its supervisory board - guess who? The supervisory
board (for which read ministry of finance) blocked the management's proposal
to issue a Eurobond. Not unreasonably it said Handlowy should wait and see
how the republic's Eurobond was received in the international markets. It
thought two Polish debuts within a month a bit much, and didn't want anything
to get in the way of a successful issue by the republic. <BR>
<BR>
But JP Morgan was confident the sovereign issue would go well. And it turned
out to be right. The Morgan-led issue was increased from $200 million to
$250 million, and was twice oversubscribed at 185 basis points over US treasuries.
The strategy that Morgan then put forward was to soak up the excess demand
for the sovereign paper with Handlowy's bond, marketing it as quasi-sovereign
debt, and going to market without a credit rating, relying purely on its
status as 100% government-owned. <BR>
<BR>
On July 17, the supervisory board met once again, and this time approved
the issue. But while the MoF gave its blessing with one hand, with the other
it was holding on to the withholding tax issue. So the timetable was changed,
and because August is a dead month, the launch was postponed until September
7. <BR>
<BR>
Then, as senior management at Bank Handlowy describe it, &quot;an interesting
thing happened&quot;. Out of nowhere the government decided to publish a
controversial bank consolidation plan, seemingly without consulting any
of the parties concerned. This was written by Jan Monkiewicz, a close associate
of deputy prime minister Grzegorz Kolodko. Under the plan, two large banking
groups led by Handlowy and Polska Kasa Opieki (Pekao) would be created.
This would involve Handlowy absorbing two regional banks, one wholly government-owned
- Pomorski Bank Kredytowy - and one in which the treasury has only a 46%
stake, called Bank Przemyslowo Handlowy (BPH). <BR>
<BR>
There was uproar, especially from ING Bank of Holland and the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which between them owned 21.4%
of BPH. International observers interpreted the affair not only as an abuse
of minority shareholders' rights but also as a renationalization. The head
of BPH, Henryka Pieronkiewicz, said she would &quot;defend her bank to the
end&quot;. A spirit of defiance prevailed at all the banks concerned. Bank
Handlowy was not keen on the plan either, not least because its balance
sheet and its number of employees might double. Standard &amp; Poor's (S&amp;P)
produced a report that claimed the plan would &quot;not enhance the creditworthiness
of the two acquiring banks&quot; and that the mergers would bring increased
credit risk to the loan portfolio. <BR>
<BR>
Handlowy, in fact, wanted to be privatized as soon as possible, although
JP Morgan didn't want this to happen as it would no longer be able to sell
the bonds as a quasi-sovereign credit. The consolidation plan would only
put that prospect further down the road, especially since the merger process
held the prospect of being very messy. Stypulkowski spoke of merging aggressively,
if the consolidation plan happened at all - meaning firing whole layers
of the smaller banks' management. JP Morgan knew it would have to carry
out extensive due diligence on banks where the numbers were less transparent
than Handlowy's. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bizarre rumours</B> <BR>
<BR>
All of these uncertainties added further difficulties for the lawyers trying
to produce an accurate and correct view of the bank in the offering circular
for the forthcoming bond issue. (A total of nine versions of the offering
circular would eventually be produced.) On August 24 Nieradko moved the
launch date to late October. On August 29 it was moved to November 29. <BR>
<BR>
In this period, Handlowy was in the green pages - the colour of the Polish
business press - almost daily. Bizarre rumours circulated, and virtually
everyone appeared to be trying to sabotage the government's somewhat heavy-handed
plan. At the same time government ministers and officials showed an amazing
propensity to making sweeping comments on the record. (At one stage, the
deputy president of the central bank said that they should forget all these
small banks, and just merge the two big ones: Handlowy and Pekao.) <BR>
<BR>
JP Morgan and Linklaters, its lawyers, could only watch the gossip with
dismay. On September 23 an official at Handlowy was asked some direct questions
by a Polish journalist and in his confusion revealed that the bank was planning
a Eurobond. Could it get any worse? <BR>
<BR>
Yes, of course. The government announced that in the first quarter of 1996
the consolidation plan should be well under way. In early October all parties
decided enough was enough and a &quot;tools down&quot; order was given by
Littlefield: no more work would be done on the transaction. At roughly the
same time Rachel Hatfield, the Linklaters lawyer running the due diligence,
was beginning maternity leave, thoroughly pleased to be off the transaction.
<BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski and Elizabeth Littlefield of Morgan now laugh about the tight-lipped
six weeks that followed. Each says the other wasn't returning telephone
calls. &quot;I think you were maybe a little fed up with us,&quot; says
Stypulkowski. The problems with the consolidation plan had reawakened the
board of management's divisions over a Eurobond, and while Stypulkowski's
role as president gave him an absolute veto, the tradition of the bank was
one of consensus. A projection was carried out that the Eurobond was 20bp
more expensive than the nearest alternative - it seemed that, at best, the
bank would issue at around 185bp over treasuries (it actually issued nearly
100bp cheaper). <BR>
<BR>
Ironically, the day after all parties said enough was enough, the ministry
of finance, after five months of intransigence, gave way on the withholding
tax issue. Nieradko, however, noticed that the expiry date of the exemption
was December 31 1995. He telephoned the ministry and said thanks, but would
it be possible to change the year? After a small debate, he got his way.
<BR>
<BR>
Littlefield was in Warsaw in December to attend Handlowy's 125th anniversary.
Nieradko informed her that the withholding tax obstacle had miraculously
disappeared - good news at last. It also seemed that the government would
alter its consolidation plans and maybe just go for a full scale privatization
of Handlowy instead. Of course, this new development would mean marketing
Handlowy as a stand-alone credit, removing the prop of a government guarantee.
<BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski told the board that the Eurobond would be a good way to improve
reporting standards and give the bank a dry run for its privatization initial
public offering (IPO). The board liked what it heard. &quot;It was puzzled,&quot;
remembers Stypulkowski, &quot;whenever JP Morgan told it that privatization
was a bad thing for the bond issue. All the time we have assumed privatization
must be good.&quot; Indeed, the idea of issuing at a three-year maturity
had been based on the initial assumption that the bank would be in state
hands for the life of the bond. Morgan now realized it had to work on some
solutions to give the investor additional comfort. <BR>
<BR>
Moreover, January saw Stypulkowski become more and more confident that the
government would back down on its consolidation plan. So on February 4 the
bond issue was back on the agenda. The plan was to have fewer than 10 changes
to the timetable. (There would in fact only be eight.) A launch date was
set for March 19. <BR>
<BR>
Coincidentally, Rachel Hatfield of Linklaters was just about to return from
maternity leave. She received a call at home from her boss, Jim Rice, the
partner who had been covering the deal in its stand-off phase. &quot;Hello,
how's motherhood?&quot; A little suspicious, she asked what he wanted. &quot;Do
you remember that deal you were doing before you went away? Well, I have
to leave the country and it's starting up again. Could you go to a meeting
next week?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Delayed again</B> <BR>
<BR>
True to form, the launch date was quickly postponed, this time to April
30 - the date that Stypulkowski had said was absolute and could not move.
Perhaps this was because he didn't want to risk the ministry of finance
becoming vocal on the consolidation again. Alternatively it could have been
a concern that a vote in the Polish senate in early May on the bank consolidation
might turn the government's proposal into law. <BR>
<BR>
The difficulty was that the bank's first set of accounts done to international
standards by KPMG was not due to be finished until May. So Stypulkowski
led a charm offensive on KPMG's Warsaw partners and persuaded them to up
the tempo and produce the results a month early. <BR>
<BR>
The key issue now was to nail down privatization. The offering circular
was virtually complete, but the section titled &quot;outlook&quot; needed
a commitment from the management on the future. The problem, says Nieradko,
was that in Poland &quot;medium-term means next week, long-term means next
month&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Littlefield and Stypulkowski would have telephone conversations in which
she would start, &quot;I think we'll have a draft ready tomorrow.&quot;
He would reply, &quot;Well, the news is we're going to be privatized <I>soon</I>.&quot;
What was needed was a comfort letter from the government. Yet Stypulkowski's
deputy Antoni Sala had been seeking this for several months. <BR>
<BR>
Then another problem arose: Moody's Investor Services. Morgan's intention
had been to do the issue unrated, and simply market the bank as Poland's
flagship bank with the highest rating of any eastern European bank; the
leader in Polish foreign trade finance, deposit-taking and corporate lending;
and Poland's best-capitalized bank. JP Morgan commissioned Edward Marrinan
to write its credit opinion for investors. Marrinan is a respected bank
analyst, who does not write about emerging markets, and the implication
was that Bank Handlowy should not be viewed by traditional emerging market
criteria. <BR>
<BR>
Littlefield believed Moody's would not rate the bank because of uncertainties
about its future. During a telephone call to Larry Polleckio, Moody's senior
credit officer for eastern European banks, instinct told her that Moody's
might do an investor-initiated rating. These are also called unsolicited
ratings: Moody's publish a rating without the issuer's consent, not necessarily
bothering to visit it, or speak to the management. Once Moody's make the
decision to do an unsolicited rating, an issuer cannot engage it to do a
normal, 'solicited' rating in its place. <BR>
<BR>
Littlefield knew it would be disastrous if Moody's published an unsolicited
rating in the middle of the roadshow. She told Handlowy her suspicions and
it immediately made a pre-emptive strike: it booked Moody's to do a formal
rating, arriving the week before the roadshow. <BR>
<BR>
This gave Handlowy less than a fortnight to prepare. Littlefield got Morgan's
rating advisory unit to drop other, less pressing projects and commit its
top people. Resa Lundkvist, its head of credit research and a former S&amp;P
bank analyst, supervised the process. Tom Cant, a senior bank analyst, was
sent to Warsaw for the whole fortnight. Littlefield recalls: &quot;I was
with Tom in Heathrow. I saw he was only carrying an overnight bag. I said,
'There's a Pink's over there. You better go and buy a few more shirts.'&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski's only experience of getting a rating was the shadow rating
done by Morgan in May, and a book he read in September on how Moody's evaluates
financial institutions. He was, understandably, a little concerned. <BR>
<BR>
Tom Cant went to work on the background information memo, a fairly formulaic
presentation that puts all the facts and figures the agencies need in one
convenient place. To call it a memo, however, is a serious misnomer, since
dropping one on someone could cause serious damage. Ratings analysts have
the habit of reading these on the plane. So Nieradko sent it to their homes
in Cyprus - via London - because DHL apparently do not deliver Cyprus to
Warsaw direct. <BR>
<BR>
Senior management had to be drilled for the verbal presentations. Stypulkowski
knew discipline would be required, and instructed everyone to report to
the office at 8am that Saturday morning and work through the bank holiday
weekend on technique. The agencies like to hear six to eight presentations
of about 20 minutes from the heads of every product area. According to Lundkvist,
form and presentation counts. <BR>
<BR>
Lundkvist and Cant gave the management team two dry runs. The management
was told that rating agencies have a unique downside perspective - all they
care about is the likelihood of debt being repaid on time. In contrast management
naturally play to equity audiences, preferring to talk about expansion plans.
The agencies will ask about these but only to examine worst-case scenarios:
how will you handle it if that plan goes wrong? <BR>
<BR>
Above all, the management must tell a positive story - the agencies will
find the negative stuff themselves - and never contradict one another. &quot;I
don't tell them what words to use,&quot; says Lundkvist. &quot;In fact,
what you find is that when you gather the management in one room, they listen
to each other's messages and start to talk to each other and add value themselves.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;The impact that management makes is substantial. And Mr Stypulkowski
is among the best CEOs I've ever come across. He is capable of talking about
the business in a way which draws you in.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Break open the champagne</B> <BR>
<BR>
Moody's was very accommodating, and did its utmost to complete the rating
quickly and efficiently. Usually it is only after four to six weeks that
a preliminary rating is made. But in this case, the rating committee met
in Cyprus the next day. As luck would have it, S&amp;P upgraded Poland two
notches to BBB- that day. Word was got to Littlefield that Moody's intended
to give an investment grade of Baa3, but it had a couple of caveats. <BR>
<BR>
The principal one was a concern about stamp duty, which could be levied
at 2%, although it was clear the Polish authorities had no capacity to collect
it. A special section on Polish taxation was included in the offering circular
pointing out that &quot;it is arguable that transfers of notes between non-Polish
holders could be subject to stamp duty&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Moody's was given comfort by the lawyer's personal opinions on this matter,
and the rating was announced on Thursday April 18, just before the London
close. Bets were called in. Littlefield owed Stypulkowski and Nieradko two
bottles of champagne - any brand so long as it was not Polish. &quot;Fortunately
I'd hedged my position,&quot; she says. <BR>
<BR>
The announcement on Thursday gave Morgan an important couple of days to
get its sales force to invite investment grade investors. The Handlowy team
was scheduled to leave for Asia on Saturday to begin the roadshow on Monday
morning. <BR>
<BR>
There was more good news. A delighted deputy president Sala telephoned Littlefield
on the Friday afternoon, and announced he had finally managed to get a commitment
letter from the government, which he then faxed to London. Although not
legally binding, the letter from the MoF stated it would do nothing that
would be detrimental to Handlowy's &quot;creditworthiness&quot;. The &quot;outlook&quot;
section of the offering circular was freshly penned in an hour by Rachel
Hatfield, a remarkable feat for such a poised page-long piece of prose.
&quot;At this stage it is not possible to state with any degree of certainty
whether the Bank will be privatized, consolidated or consolidated with a
view to privatization, nor, if it is consolidated, the entities with which
it will be consolidated.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
That Friday, however, was a tough one for Nicholas Granatino, the junior
origination officer who had worked with Littlefield on this deal from the
very beginning. He had to work until 4am to get the presentation ready and
prepare the slides. He returned home ready to collapse into bed, but at
5am the slides were delivered, at 5.20 the printed presentations, and at
5.40 the preliminary offering circular. At 6am he had to leave for Heathrow.
<BR>
<BR>
On a roadshow the junior origination officer comes into his own. He is responsible
for everything from logistics to talking to clients on planes when the senior
person wants to sleep, to planting questions in roadshows and staying up
and drinking with a client. The first thing Granatino had to do on arrival
was find a printer, because Stypulkowski and Nieradko had changed the presentation
on the plane. In Asia, it was changed again. He had brought a laptop in
the likelihood it might be, but he didn't have the right adaptor for Korea.
So he customized the plug on the lampshade in his hotel room to make one.
<BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski was especially good on the roadshow. His favourite line was
that Bank Handlowy, at 126 years old, was older than the republic of Poland,
and that he expected to price through it. After the S&amp;P upgrade the
republic's Euro had tightened even further from 110bp over to 90bp over
(it was launched the previous June at 185bp over). Stypulkowski felt justified
in being a little aggressive: &quot;I said to investors I wanted to share
with investors the impact of an upgrading. But I said I would like to have
a portion of this upfront.&quot; Each time he took this aggressive approach,
Littlefield would make a sign from the back of the room motioning her finger
across her throat, because she wished to avoid price talk, and investors
generally don't like to be told what to do. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Stop this flight</B> <BR>
<BR>
The roadshow returned to Europe. First to Geneva, to an audience of private
money managers who eventually bought 13% of the issue (and it was the first
time Morgan had taken an emerging market credit to Geneva). And, with hardly
any time to spare, to Frankfurt. The rush to catch this flight occasioned
the funniest scene of the whole deal: Stypulkowski, Nieradko, Littlefield
and Granatino - with a box of slides under his arm - found themselves running
not on to the plane but into the air traffic control tower. In a desperate
attempt to delay the flight, they phoned the Polish airport authority and
said that Stypulkowski was the Polish prime minister and had to make the
flight because he was meeting Helmut Kohl in Frankfurt. Once on board, Stypulkowski
received especially deferential in-flight treatment. <BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski began to be struck by the lack of concern about the privatization.
&quot;During lunch, investors asked me whether this debt offer would be
followed by an equity offer they could buy. I began to realize the privatization
issue was less important than we thought.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
On Thursday night in Frankfurt, issuer and lead manager agreed the put option
could be modified, rather than simply being activated by the decision of
the government to privatize the bank (probably in 1997). The issuer wanted
to see investors show more confidence in what the privatized bank would
be - essentially no different from what it was before. Littlefield was concerned
that the put would become an interest rate play, with investors putting
the bond regardless, so as to refinance and buy new bonds at the time of
privatization when interest rates will almost certainly be higher. The concern
was that Handlowy would have to repay $100 million on the eve of privatization.
<BR>
<BR>
So the put only became active - whereby investors could automatically sell
bonds back to the issuer - if the privatization was accompanied by a credit
downgrading. Other alternatives which were dismissed were a put below par
- at say, 95 - and a put on a spread over the launch spread (if it widened
out too much). The credit put was the best option because it focused the
minds of investors on the matter in hand: Bank Handlowy's creditworthiness,
and not its ownership. <BR>
<BR>
The new put structure was explained to investors the next morning at the
London roadshow. The launch was delayed, however, from Monday to Tuesday
to allow the Asian sales force time to explain the change to its investors.
<BR>
<BR>
On Friday afternoon, Richard Luddington, the head of the emerging debt syndicate,
did a wrap-up presentation. Spread talk had tightened in from around 110bp
over treasuries beforehand to 100bp by Geneva and 90bp by the end, he said.
Not surprisingly he advised increasing the size of the issue, but this idea
was rejected on the ground that it was still expensive money, in spite of
the tightening. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Blow out</B> <BR>
<BR>
Fortunately the syndicate had been selected before the roadshow - just eight
firms, even though there had been 20 houses vying to get in, one telling
Nieradko &quot;we were one of your shareholders before the second world
war. So we have a relationship.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
On Tuesday morning, with JP Morgan controlling 83% of the bonds, the $100
million deal quickly blew out, pricing through the sovereign at 88bp over
US treasuries. It traded as low as 79bp over during the course of the day,
and one of the co-managers rather enthusiastically said it could have sold
a thousand times as many bonds. <BR>
<BR>
The other part of Luddington's job was to manage the press. He spoke to
the <I>Financial Times</I> from Heathrow that afternoon, and managed to
secure a headline on its international capital markets page. <BR>
<BR>
Nieradko reckons all the problems and delays turned out to Handlowy's advantage.
&quot;In the end we issued not as a proxy to the government, but as a stand-alone
credit, and we issued about 100bp cheaper.&quot; <BR>
<P><CENTER>* * * </CENTER>
<P>It is 5pm on Friday May 17, 17 days after the launch. The formal signing
will occur two floors below in a ballroom. It will take place in one hour's
time in front of the cameras. But it is all show. The real business of signing
goes on before this, in a hot stuffy room, with a long table filled mainly
with lawyers. <BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski asks if anyone has a fountain pen he can borrow. The first
to be proffered belongs to the senior partner at auditors KPMG. Stypulkowski
sits next to Elizabeth Littlefield, who is signing on behalf of Morgan.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Let me just pass them to you,&quot; says Linklaters' Rachel Hatfield.
The procedure here is a little unusual. The closing is officially on Monday,
but for the sake of convenience all the documents will be signed today.
<BR>
<BR>
Hatfield notifies Stypulkowski that there are three last-minute changes,
to do with provisions in the trust deed. The last has been negotiated only
minutes earlier between Handlowy's lawyer, David Joyce, and Hatfield. It
is a minor point, not a deal-breaker by any means, relating to what categories
of information are to be made available to the noteholders on an ongoing
basis. Joyce is adamant on the point and Hatfield, having spoken to the
trustee in London, concedes. <BR>
<BR>
Stypulkowski is told he must initial it. &quot;This one's in your favour,&quot;
says Hatfield with a smile. A conveyor belt of paper is now passed to the
bank's president, opened at the right pages, marked conveniently by yellow
post-it notes. The subscription agreement is signed first - this commits
the underwriters. Next, the front cover of the glossy offering circular
must be initialled - Stypulkowski is advised to do this with a ballpoint
so as not to smudge it. &quot;I prefer a fountain.&quot; &quot;Hmm. But
it's kind of slippy.&quot; The ballpoint wins. <BR>
<BR>
Back to the fountain pen, an agency agreement is signed. Littlefield apologizes:
&quot;Sorry, I don't sign as fast as you.&quot; Stypulkowski then signs
a letter of undertaking to have the bonds listed in Luxembourg, followed
by a letter to Handlowy's London lawyer to &quot;act as an agent in the
unlikely event of a legal action&quot;. Next, a cross-receipt is signed
&quot;to say you've received the money&quot;. Then an escrow letter from
Linklaters is signed, acknowledging that it will hold all the documents
until the final closing on Monday. And finally a temporary global note is
signed for: until the $100 million of notes are printed, the whole issue
is in global form. This piece of paper is a bond worth $100 million. <BR>
<BR>
It's all over. Done deal. Downstairs Jean Facon and Stypulkowski play out
the public signing. Grzegorz Kolodko, the deputy prime minister, announces
Poland will be in the OECD by July. <BR>
<BR>
Afterwards Kolodko tells <I>Euromoney</I>: &quot;I like this deal. It is
still the bank owned by the state. The fact they can do this shows they
are a strong bank.&quot; His final statement comes as no surprise to anyone
who has worked on this deal. &quot;It proves they are ready to be privatized,
sooner rather than later.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
All that is left is the dinner, held in the Belvedere park, in a glorious
summer house, where lead managers, lawyers and issuer get together for the
final time. Stypulkowski praises JP Morgan's &quot;devotion and patience&quot;.
Then the gifts are produced. From a jack-in-the-box to a viking's helmet
and superman suit, each comes with a story. None more so than the final
gift. &quot;It's bigger than I expected,&quot; says Littlefield, as she
presents it. It moves. And all <I>Euromoney</I> can say is Stypulkowski's
secretary loves feeding the little creature. <HR>
<H2>Racing to a finish </H2>
Mark Watson, Salomon Brothers head of syndicate, leans back in his chair
and agrees it has been a good day. &quot;I'd take one of these every week,&quot;
he laughs. It's 6.30 on the evening of Thursday May 23, and the trading
floor at Victoria Plaza in London is quiet. Salomon has just successfully
completed the republic of Colombia's $400 million bond issue. <BR>
<BR>
It is the end of a process that began exactly one month earlier when Salomon,
along with 10 other banks, sent its proposal to the Colombian ministry of
finance. All 10 firms had been asked to prepare proposals within a week,
and each knew that the Colombians do not conduct interviews. <BR>
<BR>
By its own account Colombia is an <I>exigente</I> borrower, which translates
as &quot;demanding&quot;. Its letter to the banks had emphasized how strategically
important this issue was: its intention was to broaden its investor base
in Europe (where Colombia has always been a hard sell) and to tap demand
in non-Japan Asia for the first time. <BR>
<BR>
All the proposals were photocopied among the 10-strong borrowing team, led
by Clemente del Valle, the director of public credit, and a final decision
was taken that a Eurodollar issue was the best recommendation. The shortlist
was narrowed to the six houses that had recommended this route: Salomon,
SBC Warburg, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan and CS First Boston.
<BR>
<BR>
The strategies varied. One of the shortlisted banks estimated placement
of 50% in the US, where the Colombian name is well known and where a near-perfect
yield curve has been created in the yankee market. It was not what the Colombians
wanted to hear. On the other hand, another shortlisted candidate went to
the opposite extreme and recommended not putting in place a 144A tranche
- the means by which foreign issuers sell bonds to the biggest investors
in the US. No 144A would mean zero sales into the US, a bold strategy, and
one the Colombians deemed too risky. <BR>
<BR>
A point not lost on any of those shortlisted was that, as a frequent borrower,
Colombia has to rotate mandates and diversify relationships. Earlier this
year, for example, the $400 million yankee mandate had gone to Merrill and
Goldman, so the likelihood was that they would not win. And they didn't.
<BR>
<BR>
Salomon and SBC Warburg were mandated. Warburg's strength was in Europe.
Salomon, with 50 fixed-income salespeople in London and 70 in Asia, brought
the greater strength in Asia and more experience of bringing sovereign and
medium-grade credits to the market. What emerged from the six proposals
was that the general price level averaged between 145 basis points and 155bp
over US treasuries. (In the event it was launched at 150bp over.) <BR>
<BR>
By April 29, less than a week after the proposals were sent, the two lead
managers got together, compared notes and presented a joint strategy to
the borrower. It was agreed to minimize US placement (in the event it was
only 25%). <BR>
<BR>
On May 2, there was a meeting between the leads and the borrowing team in
Bogota to divide up the workload. SBC Warburg would prepare the offering
document with the Colombian borrowing team, and book the roadshow locations:
Seoul, Hong Kong, Zurich, Geneva, Frankfurt and London - which also meant
booking flights and hotels. Salomon would prepare the roadshow presentation.
Both houses would jointly invite their investor base. <BR>
<BR>
Both the lead managers suggested a syndicate. At the meeting in Bogota a
consensus was reached on its composition, taking into account the borrower's
needs. It totalled seven banks - including Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, Bankers
Trust and ING Bank. Bankers Trust had been involved in the republic's first
Eurobond in 1993, and was co-arranger of its syndicated loan in October.
ING has a large local presence in Colombia and arranged a syndicated loan
for Fen, the energy financing agency. <BR>
<BR>
The leads would take 86% of the bonds while the syndicate members would
get 2% ($6 million) each. Placement with retail accounts in Benelux was
not expected, because it was assumed that individuals associated Colombia
simply with narcotics and didn't understand its credit story. <BR>
<BR>
The offering circular was started. Normally this document of facts and figures
(in this case 119 pages of them) might take 20 days to a month to complete,
but it was finished by May 14, which was less than a fortnight. <BR>
<BR>
The inaugural roadshow in Seoul was led by none other than the minister
of finance, Jos&eacute; Antonio Ocampo. It was his first roadshow, and he
had only been in the job for six days. The lunch in Seoul was heavily oversubscribed.
<BR>
<BR>
After Hong Kong the group that comprised the minister, Clemente del Valle,
who is the director of public credit, and the bankers Moctar Fall (Salomon)
and Patrick O'Brien (SBC Warburg), then moved to Europe. Minister Ocampo
went via New Orleans to Zurich where he only had time for a shower in his
hotel before leaving for the morning roadshow and the next location, never
to return to the hotel. Ocampo says it was the most expensive shower he's
ever had. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Vital piece missing</B> <BR>
<BR>
The flight to Geneva for the lunchtime roadshow was an hour late, which,
since it was SwissAir, surprised the Colombians. Frankfurt passed off smoothly
except that en route to London the team realized that the 32nd and final
slide was still in the projector in the Germany. This slide, which came
after 31 glimpses of economic statistics, was titled &quot;Transaction summary&quot;
and detailed the name of the issuer, the amount, the tenor and so forth.
Luckily an acetate was found and was used to create a computer-projected
image. <BR>
<BR>
The London roadshow is held at Gibson Hall, an opulent setting with a baroque
ceiling near the Bank of England. After an initial white wine, and the compulsory
exchanging of cards by bankers and guests, a man with a mallet bangs a drum
and invites guests to sit down. Those in the know are muttering &quot;decertification&quot;:
the US put Colombia on a blacklist (though not one that forbids US citizens
from buying its bonds) after it emerged last summer that President Samper's
election campaign was funded by drug-money - whether he knew it or not.
<BR>
<BR>
The first slide on the screen is a map, displaying Colombia's location at
the top of South America. All emerging market roadshows begin with a map:
no banker dares presume an investor's geographical knowledge. <BR>
<BR>
Moctar Fall, who runs Latin American capital markets at Salomon, welcomes
the audience and introduces the minister, pointing out that since he was
a professor of economics at Oxford this is more like a homecoming for him.
At 1.20pm the minister begins to speak while the investors eat a first course
of fish. He notes that 1931 was the last year in which Colombia had negative
economic growth, and that it was the only Latin American country not to
default or restructure its debts in the 1980s. The government has only one
seat on the central bank's board. He winds up that the government aims &quot;to
keep a competitive exchange rate - which for us is a major obsession - and
finally to continue our efforts against drug trafficking and money laundering&quot;.
He sits down at 1.45, as the audience tucks into the chicken main course.
<BR>
<BR>
Clemente del Valle then stands up and explains that Colombia was the first
in Latin America this year to do a 20-year yankee, and that it has a very
strong relationship with all the rating agencies. &quot;Last year Moody's
upgraded us to full investment grade. They were convinced that we could
deal with our oil boom. S&amp;P two months ago ratified our BBB- rating
with a positive outlook.&quot; He sits down at 1.55. Coffee is being poured
- though no one can confirm it's Colombian. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Declared innocent</B> <BR>
<BR>
So far the marketing has emphasized that Colombia is not like other Latin
countries and should not be benchmarked as such. It has an investment grade,
and a good economy. In graphs it is benchmarked against Indonesia, South
Africa and east European countries. The banks are conscious that the rumoured
price talk of 150bp over makes it look expensive for Latin America, but
compared to Poland and the Czech Republic, which are now sub-100bp, it is
a 50bp yield pick-up. <BR>
<BR>
Patrick O'Brien from SBC Warburg says the launch is imminent. &quot;I would
be surprised if it wasn't in the next 36 hours.&quot; He then asks for questions.
The microphone is passed to an investor who wants a prediction on trends
over the next five years. The minister gives a longish reply, concluding:
&quot;Investment is 20% to 21% of GDP so with new oil income I think economic
growth will recover to rates of 5% to 6%.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Then there is a question on decertification and whether recent decisions
by the Colombian congress will clear the president of any guilt in the election
scandal, and whether the budget deficit is getting out of control. The minister
responds calmly. &quot;We expect the president will be declared innocent,&quot;
he says, and declares the overall fiscal balance to be very positive. Colombia
fulfils many of the Maastricht criteria, he chuckles, and he understands
that the only European country to fulfil the budget deficit criterion is
Luxembourg. Questions end at 2.10pm. <BR>
<BR>
Financial journalists then gather in a room nearby to quiz the minister
and the director of public credit. The minister says they plan to issue
in a local European currency later. He asks one journalist if he has any
idea which one. The future is the main topic. &quot;We are a little concerned
to have a good mix of short- and long-term funding,&quot; says del Valle.
&quot;Now we have flexibility to move to the shorter end. But under three
years is not something we are considering.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Do they have any idea what sort of geographical distribution they will achieve?
Del Valle says that will be discussed at the end of the day. After several
attempts to figure out which local European currency the republic might
issue in, the minister laughs. &quot;They are so concerned with geography,
these people.&quot; About 2.30pm the whole thing is over. <BR>
<BR>
The minister of finance departs for one on one meetings with the chairmen
of two London asset managers with combined funds of about &#163;13 billion
- this is to discuss participation in forthcoming privatizations. Del Valle
meanwhile sits around a table with Moctar Fall, Salomon's director of syndicate,
Michael Ridley, and Warburg's Patrick O'Brien. The news from the banks is
that the roadshow has achieved all its objectives - investors are excited
about the Colombian economy. They suggest they could increase the size from
$300 million to $400 million. <BR>
<BR>
The leads tell del Valle that the &quot;threshold of pain&quot; is 150bp
over: orders begin falling away below this level. <BR>
<BR>
It is decided to launch that afternoon without pricing and to discuss the
next morning whether to increase. The pricing will take place exactly 24
hours later. This period gives the leads time to crystallize orders and
allocate the bonds to &quot;safe hands&quot;, or good accounts - real money
managers, not asset swappers. Del Valle is confident and leaves the country
for meetings in mainland Europe. The only Colombian to remain behind is
his adviser, Mari&aacute; Clemencia Sierra. <BR>
<BR>
An invitation telex is sent to the seven syndicate members via computer,
and each syndicate head is phoned to be formally invited into the syndicate.
At 3.30pm the deal is on the wire service screens. <BR>
<BR>
At 8am on Thursday, both lead managers conference-call del Valle to update
him on the level of demand. The suggestion of an increase to $400 million
is made again - the argument is advanced that this will make the issue more
liquid and a better benchmark. He agrees and an announcement is made. Under
International Primary Market Association (IPMA) rules an increase must be
made pro-rata to others in the syndicate. It is decided that the issue will
be priced that afternoon. This is when it becomes free to trade. <BR>
<BR>
The pricing window for a dollar deal is between 2pm and 3.30pm London time
- which is morning in New York. Before 2pm a lot of people are at lunch,
and after 3.30pm, which is 4.30pm in mainland Europe, you won't catch investors
before they close up for the day. There also has to be a gap between announcing
the price on the screens and the decison to free it to trade so the syndicate
can confirm its orders. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Three-way hook up</B> <BR>
<BR>
The director of public credit, Clemente del Valle, is on a plane en route
to Maastricht. The only opportunity the lead managers will have to speak
to him occurs in a brief stop-over at Brussels airport. At 2.51pm, Michael
Ridley, the director of syndicate, is on the phone to del Valle, while Maria
Clemente Sierra is on another phone speaking to Angela Valderama, the head
of the analysis division in Colombia. It is the first time Colombia has
priced a deal directly after a roadshow. Normally the borrowing team would
be in the same room - meaning one conference call from the lead managers
rather than this three-way hook-up. <BR>
<BR>
The borrower must be on the line to give the go-ahead. The lead manager
tells it the bid price of the relevant US treasury. The procedure is to
read down the phone the Eurobond's price and the yield, calculated from
the quoted treasury's bid-price. The borrower quickly makes its own calculation
and ratifies the lead managers' numbers. <BR>
<BR>
The purpose of the hook-up is to allow Valderama in Bogota to confirm the
calculation and say yes to del Valle in Brussels airport so he can say yes
to the leads, and so they can send the automated message to the wire services.
The problem is that getting Bogota and Brussels on the line at the same
time is proving tricky. Del Valle's phone card runs out, and because he
is without a mobile he has to find another phone. <BR>
<BR>
In the meantime someone is shouting, &quot;We need to price right now. It's
getting late in Europe.&quot; At 2.58pm someone points out the treasury
market is going up and that a rival issue in the market from Canada, led
by Goldman Sachs, RBC Dominion and Morgan Stanley, was priced 20 minutes
ago. <BR>
<BR>
Del Valle finally finds a phone. The five-year treasury yield is at 6.40%,
which would mean that if the Colombia five-year is priced 150bp over this
it will have an annual yield of 8.056% and a reoffer price of 99.776. Del
Valle is having trouble hearing all the figures because the phone he has
found is by the airport tannoy. At 3pm, the treasury trader is shouting
from 10 metres away - he's working on a client transaction in which he's
selling treasuries and switching into Colombia, so as to buy the 150bp spread.
He needs to know the exact price so as to execute. <BR>
<BR>
At 3.03pm the pricing is completed. The sales force take down the figures
and begin to phone as many of their clients as possible. SBC Warburg is
responsible for letting the wire services know. At 3.05pm it's on the screens.
At 3.09pm the Canadian deal breaks syndicate. <BR>
<BR>
Syndicate chief Mark Watson speaks to Steve Mattey, the primary Eurobond
trader, and asks if he's OK about breaking at 3.30pm - is that enough time
after Canada? Mattey wears a headphone mike that gives him freedom to move,
and also allows the syndicate desk to hear what he's doing. He agrees to
3.30. <BR>
<BR>
The execution was a good one. Semi-annual yields (interest rates) on US
treasuries move a tick higher, from 6.40% to 6.41% - [the all-in cost for
the borrower is thus a basis point lower, since 150bp over 6.40% is 7.90%
and if it had been priced seconds later, it would have been 7.91%. At the
time of <I>Euromoney</I> going to press, a week later, treasuries had moved
out a further 26 basis points, meaning if it had been priced only one week
later, the all-in cost of the deal to Colombia would have been $4 million
more. Sierra from the Colombian MoF is finalizing details. Food arrives.
Moctar hands her a napkin, and laughs. &quot;You see the sort of service
we give our customers?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Will it perform well? &quot;Ask me in 45 minutes,&quot; says Ridley, who
notes it was heavily oversubscribed at 150bp over - a good round number
- but that many investors weren't there in the &quot;40s&quot;. After the
45 minutes in question it will be 5.15 pm in Europe, and activity will become
less frenetic. <BR>
<BR>
At 3.30pm exactly Watson announces it is free to trade. Mattey gives a 99.80
bid (where he will buy), and an offer of 99.95 (which in spread terms equates
to 147bp over). At 3.34 he explains he is moving things around to see where
the flow is. &quot;There was a 95 bid in the bookies. I hit it. I want to
keep this bond down.&quot; Mattey is smiling a lot and it's clear he's having
a good afternoon. The Colombians are a little concerned about bonds flowing
back to the US. &quot;I don't think they'll flow back to the US,&quot; he
responds. &quot;We were careful not to distribute to flippers [the opposite
of buy and hold accounts].&quot; By 3.40 he announces not a single one of
his trades has been US-bound. <BR>
<BR>
Sierra from the MoF calls the rating agencies. At 3.46 Mattey buys nine
and a half (million) at 99.84. He announces he's no longer short (of bonds).
In fact, he's long. The secondary Eurobond trader says he's got a broker
on the phone: &quot;He's got a buyer at T plus 150.&quot; &quot;I'm not
trading at T plus 150. I'm offered at par [T plus 147bp]. Is he a London
broker?&quot; The secondary trader says the broker could do up to 10 (million).
&quot;Offer him five at par.&quot; At 3.55 another broker wants the bonds
at a spread of 152bp over. The bonds, however, are holding steady at 147bp
over. The broker is trying to gauge where the market is. Salomon knows where
the bonds are placed, and is seeing all the flow. <BR>
<BR>
At 4.20, Mattey says the last indications are the bond is trading at &quot;par
to a quarter&quot;, indicating a significant tightening. The syndicate desk
is calculating its placement by region. At 4.26 the bid is 144bp over. At
4.28 it settles at around 143bp over. Mattey is eating some onion rings
and french fries - his lunch. O'Brien at SBC Warburg explains that it will
take a couple of days for this bond to stabilize. The professional market
was short - it had sold more bonds to its investors than its allocation,
and so was squeezed. O'Brien expects it to settle in the upper 140s. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Rare beasts</B> <BR>
<BR>
At 5pm Mattey is relaxed. He has done 30 trades and his colleague in New
York has done 10. But there is an added complexity. He must keep his US
and non-US positions separate, for accounting purposes. He has also traded
$130 million of the Canada bonds in Europe and Asia this afternoon. <BR>
<BR>
Mattey's trading pattern is one known as stabilisation, and is common practice.
This is to ensure that anyone who wants to buy and sell the bond can do
so, without moving the market too sharply. He explains that at the beginning
of the afternoon he began with a short position. To overcome this he bought
bonds back from certain investors he knew would want a quick profit, and
by getting hold of these &quot;looser&quot; bonds first, he prevented the
spread from widening. But he gradually went &quot;long&quot;, as he &quot;lifted&quot;
more and more bonds. He began &quot;hitting&quot; the market with them at
tighter and tighter spreads. The process aids the issue's performance, but
involves losing some of the fees payed by the borrower (here, nearly $1
million). Mattey's art is to lose as little of the money as possible - while
covering the short position - and to recover as much of it as possible by
his subsequent actions. From his smile, he recovered quite a lot. <BR>
<BR>
The bond finishes the day at 143bp over. Just as importantly, the bond was
distributed in exactly the manner the borrower had hoped. Salomon sold large
tickets (bonds) to 15 money managers which had never bought Colombian paper
before. SBC Warburg also sold to two asset managers in the UK that don't
usually buy emerging market debt. There is a lot of demand in Korea, and
tickets are sold in Singapore, Japan, the Middle East, France, Switzerland,
the UK and Germany. The leads sell 34% in Asia, 41% in Europe, and only
25% in the US. <BR>
<BR>
Everyone is delighted. Watson, who himself was a primary Eurobond trader,
speaks, with his tongue in his cheek, of &quot;rare beasts&quot;. By 6pm
the group is breaking up. Sierra is organizing a car to take her to the
airport for her return trip tomorrow. All that remains is the customary
borrower trip to Harrods. &quot;What time does it close on a Thursday?&quot;<BR>
<BR>
<bR>
<H3><A NAME="best-borrowers"></A>The world's best borrowers </H3>
<H4>The techniques that constitute state-of-the-art borrowing are growing
in sophistication. But having the latest black box doesn't guarantee success.
Issuers also need old-fashioned market savvy to get the lowest-cost funds.
Here are the ones that combined both qualities over the past year </H4>
<BR><BR><BR>
<H4>THE WORLD'S BEST BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Kingdom of Sweden </H2>
If amount borrowed per member of staff were the only criterion, Sweden's
National Debt Office would walk away with the award for best borrower every
year. Last year (excluding its short-term borrowing programmes) Sweden raised
Skr120 billion ($17.6 billion) in the international markets. The funding
was handled by just one person: Christina Clausen. &quot;When Christina
goes on holiday,&quot; says one of Sweden's lead managers, &quot;funding
shuts down.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Clausen may be overworked, but Euromarket bankers have nothing but praise
for the way she handles Sweden's international borrowing. She is widely
viewed as one of the sharpest and most professional - but also one of the
hardest-bargaining - users of the markets. &quot;Her knowledge of the various
markets is unsurpassed,&quot; says Justin May, a manager in debt capital
markets at Yamaichi who covers Sweden. Another banker comments: &quot;She's
very tough on price - a tough cookie altogether. But I mean that in a positive
manner. You can't fault her professionalism.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
At the start of last year, Clausen faced a formidable task. Sweden's credit-rating
was under pressure: in January Moody's downgraded the country from Aa2 to
Aa3, and Standard &amp; Poor's (which gave it a AA+ rating) switched its
outlook to negative. The ministry of finance gave the debt office a target
of a minimum of Skr30 billion in net new debt to raise overseas. Including
maturing debt to be refinanced, Clausen needed to find Skr100 billion throughout
the year. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Opportunistic approach</B> <BR>
<BR>
Sweden's saviour was the Japanese market. Last year, 43% of the country's
international issuance was in yen. If you include Japan-targeted deals in
other currencies, then as much as 70% of Sweden's funds last year came from
Japan, according to Christine Holm, a director of the debt office and Clausen's
boss. <BR>
<BR>
The most significant Japan-targeted transaction was a $2 billion three-year
deal in November, led by Yamaichi. The deal was attacked by many in the
market because of its tight pricing - the all-in cost to Sweden was as low
as 40 basis points (bp) below US treasuries - and the fact that Yamaichi
dispensed with a syndicate. But the deal hasn't performed as badly in the
secondary market as many predicted. Yamaichi claims it sold all the paper.
That is difficult to prove, but the fact that the issue has not been publicly
re-offered in Japan suggests it might be true. <BR>
<BR>
In many ways, this deal typifies Sweden's borrowing style: opportunistic,
aggressive, willing to try new ideas and loyal to the bank that brought
the idea in the first place. &quot;Our underlying philosophy in all government
activities is to borrow at the lowest possible cost,&quot; says Thomas Franz&eacute;n,
director general of the debt office, who joined from the central bank last
September. <BR>
<BR>
The range of Sweden's deals since the beginning of 1996 gives a good indication
of this opportunistic approach. In minor currencies it has done, among other
deals, 30-year peseta bonds, a step-up Ecu bond, a capped escudo floating-rate
note, a step-up dollar bond with a call option, reverse dual-currency yen
bonds, and successful issues in Canadian and Australian dollars. And all
these issues were in the public Euromarket. It has done far more in the
private placement market (details of which are hard to obtain). <BR>
<BR>
Sweden's big mainstream currency deals this year also emphasize its aggressive
cost-of-funds target. A five-year Dm1 billion issue in January was thought
by the market to be a little too tight at 35bp over Bunds, but it sold well.
Its Ffr3 billion deal in late January came at only 12bp over French government
OATs, when equivalent credits were trading at 18bp to 20bp over. The clever
timing of the issue, however, allowed it to perform fairly well. A five-year
$250 million issue (with a two-year call), also in January, was thought
tough at 45bp over US treasuries when equivalent US agency paper was trading
at 48bp to 50bp over. <BR>
<BR>
Indeed, Sweden's borrowing has become noticeably more aggressive this year.
With lower funding needs, it can afford to pick off the best arbitrage opportunities.
Its target for net new foreign borrowing is down to Skr20 billion. In the
first four months of the year, it had already done 60% of that. The growing
strength of the economy is continually forcing the government's borrowing
targets down: last month the central government borrowing requirement for
the 1996 calendar year was revised downwards by Skr15 billion to between
Skr50 billion and Skr60 billion. <BR>
<BR>
The debt office has also partly shifted the focus of its borrowing to the
domestic market. A reorganization that took place on April 1 merged the
international and domestic borrowing teams. Holm, previously in charge only
of international operations, has added domestic borrowing to her responsibilities.
&quot;I'm still learning about the domestic market, but I hope that my experience
in the international area will come to some use,&quot; says Holm. <BR>
<BR>
Strong demand for government bonds in the domestic market will make her
task easier. Index-linked bonds, introduced in 1994, have become highly
popular. On June 3 the debt office will introduce the first 24-year index-linked
bonds. Sweden has even started to fill its foreign-currency borrowing requirement
by issuing krona bonds domestically and swapping the proceeds into foreign
currencies. With attractive swap rates between krona and dollars, this produces
far cheaper funds than raising the money directly in foreign currencies.
Few other sovereign borrowers do this. <BR>
<BR>
Sweden will no doubt continue to demonstrate this ability to move where
the money is cheapest: last year, Japan; this year, domestic market. &quot;The
advantage of this organization is that we can react fast,&quot; says Holm.
&quot;The decision process doesn't take much time.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Garry Evans</B> <BR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST NEW BORROWERS </H4>
<H2>The Baltic Republics </H2>
&quot;When you're bringing countries to the capital markets for the first
time, an enormous amount of trust is required,&quot; says Dan Jackson, director
of emerging markets in the corporate finance department of Nomura. <BR>
<BR>
Jackson must certainly have built a good relationship with the Baltic states.
Latvia and Lithuania have both borrowed in the international markets for
the first time in the past 12 months. And Estonia's capital city, Tallinn,
issued a bond in April. The books of all three issues were wholly run by
Nomura - no paper was syndicated outside the Japanese house. <BR>
<BR>
This award acknowledges not only the issuers themselves but also the influential
role Nomura has played in helping the Baltic states become the first sovereigns
of the former Soviet bloc to issue Eurobonds. &quot;The first issue, a &#165;4
billion ($45 million) deal by Latvia, was privately placed mainly with Japanese
institutional investors,&quot; says Jackson. <BR>
<BR>
The $60 million Lithuanian deal, announced last December, widened slightly
after launch - it coincided with a domestic banking crisis - but has since
tightened. Jackson expects the Tallinn deal to perform similarly and to
go primarily to German institutional investors. But at the moment, Tallinn's
paper is trading at a slightly higher yield than at launch. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gateway to Russia</B> <BR>
<BR>
The strength of these Baltic issuers and their initial international appeal
derives from their unique position in eastern Europe - located between Scandinavia,
western Europe and Russia. Estonia, the most northern state, enjoys significant
trade links with Scandinavia. But although the Baltics are keen to emphasize
their culture's western leanings, many outside reasonably regard them as
a gateway to Russia. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;They present a low-risk platform for business and trade opportunity
in Russia because of their geographic position and historic trading pattern,&quot;
reckons Jackson. These natural economic stepping stones eastward certainly
attract investors. Lithuania, in particular, with a significant Russian
population, understands Russian culture and business practice. Conversely,
Latvia's recent election highlighted the area's ethnic-based fears of Russian
domination, when the nationalist party, &quot;Latvia's Way&quot;, made significant
gains. <BR>
<BR>
A common experience of Russian invasion binds these comparatively small
neighbours of the Russian bear. With this threat uppermost in Baltic minds,
these international bond issues highlight the Baltics' commitment to reform
and economic stability after communism. Natalija Guseva at Lithuania's finance
ministry believes that Lithuania's reputation &quot;has risen as a borrower
in the eyes of international investors&quot; because of the bond issue.
<BR>
<BR>
In all three instances it was Nomura that made the initial approach and
proposed the issue. Jackson had realized that the development of each country
mimicked that of eastern European states such as Poland and the Czech Republic.
These former communist countries gained their independence in 1989. Latvia,
Lithuania and Estonia, on the other hand, all ceded from the Soviet Union
only in 1991. &quot;The degree of macroeconomic progress mirrors that of
certain eastern European states two years ago,&quot; says Jackson. <BR>
<BR>
Since they were previously fully integrated into the Soviet Union and necessarily
associated with its problems, in many ways, their progress has been more
impressive. It helped that none of them took on any of the former Soviet
Union's debt. Investors beyond the Baltics are attracted by the lack of
overhanging liabilities. Inflation, which reached more than 1000% in each
state, has now been brought under control. &quot;It was a tougher macroeconomic
stabilization challenge than most eastern European states, due to their
starting in the rouble zone,&quot; says Jackson. <BR>
<BR>
None of the Baltic states is heavily industrialized. All three economies
have a high level of service-sector activity, such as banking, so to restructure
them along open market lines requires correspondingly low investments. <BR>
<BR>
After the success of Poland's international bond issuance, the opportunity
seemed ripe for the debut of these rapidly-developing states in the same
capital market. Although sharing similar characteristics, each issue came
to the international market under different circumstances. <BR>
<BR>
Latvia, the first to issue last August, was in the midst of a banking crisis
precipitated by the collapse last May of Baltja Bank, the largest Latvian
bank. Inguna Sadraba, Latvia's deputy finance minister, recalls that the
Eurobond was &quot;a good solution, considering our position, to an immediate
crisis of funding&quot;. As such, this costly transaction was very much
&quot;an emergency one-off issue&quot;. Sadraba hopes &quot;not to use the
international markets for funding again&quot; - although the possibility
is there if required. <BR>
<BR>
The Eurobond covered just over 20% of Latvia's total annual deficit of Lats90
million. Now that the economic situation is more stable, most funding is
covered by the domestic government bond markets. The treasury principally
issues T-bills of six-month maturity. &quot;Last year 35% to 40% of our
funding came from abroad,&quot; says Sudraba. &quot;This is now down to
12%.&quot; For one big amount, though, the deal was &quot;very costly&quot;.
But the coupon is confidential. <BR>
<BR>
<B>International awareness</B> <BR>
<BR>
Towards the end of 1995, Lithuania also experienced a banking crisis. Nevertheless
its own domestic government securities were already attracting international
investors, and the Eurobond capitalized on this. &quot;The Nomura issue
was a way of expanding the awareness of international investors of Lithuania
as an interesting market and also of attracting them to the domestic market,&quot;
says Natalija Guseva of the Lithuanian ministry of finance. The issue diversified
funding sources and improved Lithuania's credit rating and risk-awareness.
The ministry is not clear at this stage whether its funding policy for the
coming year will incorporate further international borrowing. <BR>
<BR>
Estonia has the most developed economy of the three Baltic republics. When
it gained independence, a significant amount of gold was repatriated from
the UK - where it had been lying in a London vault since Russia's invasion
of Estonia in 1940. Thus, with adequate foreign exchange reserves and legal
requirements that the state's budget be balanced, the state has not borrowed
internationally. This situation will probably remain unchanged, since the
government's freedom to determine monetary policy is constrained by a currency
board. <BR>
<BR>
Tallinn, Estonia's capital city, is run by an autonomous authority. To finance
infrastructure projects, it issued a Deutschmark-denominated Eurobond in
April. The issue represents a &quot;little less than 20% of our annual budget&quot;,
according to Kaarel Mati Halla, councillor of economics to the city of Tallinn.
&quot;We were very satisfied with Nomura's performance and the bond issue.
A 6% coupon is a good price for our money, considering our eastern bloc
status.&quot; Strict fiscal regulation prevents much long-term international
issuance in Estonia, but other companies in this rapidly-developing state
might well follow Tallinn to the market. <BR>
<BR>
As each republic has a relatively small population, international investment
is a necessity for development. If this year's policies are continued, the
Baltics might yet become a new Hong Kong for eastern Europe. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Christopher Spink</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST EMERGING MARKET BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Mexico </H2>
Mexico's swift and effective return to the capital markets following the
peso crash is set to become a textbook example of how a developing country
should recover from a financial crisis. <BR>
<BR>
While the $52 billion aid package was clearly critical to success, the Mexican
government could still have thrown this opportunity away with a poor borrowing
strategy. If a post-crisis issue had flopped by being placed in a market
prematurely and at the wrong price, it would have set recovery back months.
<BR>
<BR>
In fact, Mexico did the opposite. By approaching the markets gingerly, by
stepping up from floating-rate notes to fixed-rate bonds of lengthening
maturities, by gradually re-establishing benchmarks in the major currencies,
and by using innovative structures such as a dual-currency note and a 30-year
global bond exchanged for outstanding Brady debt, Mexico has shown its skill
in attracting nervous investors back to its bonds. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;They have been extremely creative in terms of their funding,&quot;
says Tulio Vera, who studies sovereign debt for Bear Stearns. &quot;That
an issuer, which less than a year and a half ago could conceivably default,
can now go out and raise a 30-year bond is incredible.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
To be sure, in early 1995, few observers of the Mexican economy could have
expected such an outcome, when Mexican trade bank Bancomext's 10-year global
was being offered at spreads of 940 basis points (bp) over US treasuries,
the peso had dropped by 35% against the dollar, and some $10 billion of
short-term debt would be falling due in the first quarter. <BR>
<BR>
To achieve this result the Mexican government subscribed to the simple philosophy
of keeping issue sizes well below perceived demand and of not pricing too
tightly. &quot;We never try to issue the last dollar or last yen. We try
to leave some unsatisfied demand, especially after the peso crisis, because
we couldn't afford an unsuccessful deal,&quot; says a spokesman for the
Mexican ministry of finance. <BR>
<BR>
In fact, the first Mexican public issuer to try out this approach after
the crisis was not the Mexican government, but Bancomext. Last June, after
weeks of market-priming with small commercial paper offerings, Bancomext
launched a $300 million two-year floating-rate note at 500bp over six-month
Libor. This issue, which was increased from $200 million, paved the way
for the United Mexican States (UMS) - the name under which the government
borrows - to issue a $1 billion two-year floating-rate note a month later.
Launched at 537.5bp over two-year US treasuries, the UMS offer tightened
to 487bp - breaking the crucial 500bp barrier - and attracted commitments
of $1.835 billion. <BR>
<BR>
Whether or not it was planned that Bancomext should act as &quot;stalking
horse&quot; in the markets for UMS is unclear, but analysts agree it had
a positive effect. &quot;During the crisis the only thing that could give
a borrower any backing was an export base, and Bancomext [as the foreign
trade bank] had that,&quot; says Hector Chavez, chief economist for Santander
Investment in Mexico. &quot;While everyone was suffering, exporters at least
could benefit from the devaluation. With its export-based finance, Bancomext
had manoeuvring space.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Re-establishing confidence</B> <BR>
<BR>
Bancomext's successful use of this space provided the guides for UMS to
make its initial foray into the market. The strategy then was to get re-established
in the three major Euromarket currencies - dollars, yen and Deutschmarks
- and, with US investors the most cautious on Mexican debt, the government
looked for support in coupon-hungry Europe and Japan. Between July and October
Mexico issued fixed-rate in yen and Deutschmarks, pushing the maturity out
to five years in the latter. <BR>
<BR>
The big breakthough came in November, however, when a $1.5 billion one-year
floating-rate note was issued giving investors the choice of redemption
in whichever was the greater of either a Mexican cetes redemption option
or US dollar Libor redemption option. With the implicit message from the
government that the exchange rate would be held firm, investors greeted
this issue warmly. &quot;The size started off at $500 million and we increased
it to $1.5 billion. We could have increased it to $2 billion, but did not,
because we were trying to be as professional as we could on behalf of the
UMS,&quot; commented the bookrunner, Chemical Investment Bank (now Chase
Manhattan), at the time. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;After this issue, the whole perception of the market started changing,&quot;
says Jos&eacute; de Aguinaga, director of fixed income at Latinvest Securities
in London. &quot;Spreads began to narrow and banks had access to liquidity.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
This lift in confidence meant that by January of this year, Mexico was at
last able to plug into the decisive fixed-rate dollar sector. The ensuing
$1 billion five-year global did the most of any deal to encourage back those
US investors who had sworn never to return to Latin America after their
peso hammering. Investors were heartened that the bond was sold to over
300 institutions worldwide and that average ticket size was low, creating
good liquidity. As critically for Mexico, the deal was launched at 445bp
over US treasuries and tightened to 425bp, giving a clear indication that
borrowing costs were heading in the right direction. <BR>
<BR>
But of all Mexico's post-peso crisis deals, the one financial analysts are
going to pore over the most is last month's swap of $1.75 billion in outstanding
Brady bonds for a new 30-year dollar global. The global yielded 552bp over
US long bonds at issue, some 164bp higher than Mexico's par Bradys because,
unlike Bradys, the new bonds are not collateralized with US treasuries.
The deal frees up this collateral which, like the proceeds from much of
Mexico's issuance over the past year, is being used to pay down Mexico's
debt. Value recovery rights attached to the Bradys - payments to investors
based on oil prices and other criteria - were also discarded in the swap,
igniting a debate among investors as to their true worth. The deal structure,
which has been widely praised, is expected to be copied by other developing
countries with Brady bonds. <BR>
<BR>
Yet, for all its cleverness, Mexico is not out of the woods yet. Analysts
point out that $22.8 billion of IMF and US Exchange Stabilization Fund debt
will be falling due in the 1998 to 2000 period and will mostly have to be
refinanced in the global capital markets. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The challenge posed by the heavy refinancing calendar for Mexico during
the 1998 to 1999 period is substantial, and investors are likely to prevent
Mexico from running large capital account deficits before and during this
period,&quot; says a Bear Stearns report. <BR>
<BR>
To succeed, Mexico will have to continue borrowing as astutely over the
next couple of years as it has over the last one. But Bancomext's 10-year
$250 million offering late last month - suggesting that Mexico could soon
plug into the key 10-year dollar market - provides the latest evidence that
things are on track. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Brian Caplen</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST EMERGING MARKET CORPORATE BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Empresa la Moderna </H2>
At the outset the decision by Empresa La Moderna (ELM), Mexico's largest
manufacturer and distributor of cigarettes, to move into new businesses
such as packing, fresh produce and seeds, may have seemed crazy. But three
years later, following acquisitions such as Agricola Batiz, US Asgrow Seed
Co, Petoseed Co and Netherlands-based Royal Sluis, most analysts believe
that what it's done makes a lot of sense: the 60-year-old company has been
transformed into a diversified conglomerate with operations in over 100
countries around the world. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There's a method in the madness,&quot; argues Scott Wilkins, assistant
director for Latin America at ING Barings in Mexico City. &quot;More than
the possible synergies between the different businesses, what makes it an
interesting story is that they are getting into businesses which are potentially
profitable in industries which have been underexploited.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
To finance its acquisitions, in late 1994, Moderna obtained a bridge loan
from a number of Mexican and European banks for $325 million. Unfortunately,
the devaluation of 1994 delayed the refinancing of the debt but things are
back on track. &quot;There was a question mark over the company but it has
been resolved,&quot; says Robert Hulme, analyst at Serfin Securities in
New York. <BR>
<BR>
Last November, ELM obtained a three-year unsecured syndicated loan for $130
million, the first of its kind given to a Mexican company since 1982 and,
in January, it successfully sold $125 million of three-year Eurobonds to
refinance short-term debt, which has enabled the company to reach its goal
of having a 80% to 20% long-term to short-term debt ratio. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;It helps that after these acquisitions roughly 45% of ELM's sales
are in dollars, so it has a nice natural hedge,&quot; says Wilkins. There's
also another advantage to having foreign subsidiaries, argues Francisco
Chevez, analyst at Smith Barney. &quot;They have access to cheaper forms
of financing.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Going forward, however, the task is daunting, cautions Wilkins. Not only
have they expanded into new businesses but also outside their geographical
realms. &quot;What does remain to be seen is if they have the managerial
wherewithal to cover and to grow these businesses,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
Sarah Lavers, director of research for Latinvest Securities in New York
believes ELM will be up to the task. &quot;They seem to have a very good
management and it's a nice business mix to have,&quot; she says. &quot;You
have the cash generative angle of the cigarette business, which helped them
finance the acquisitions, with the good growth prospects of a hard currency
business like seeds.&quot; Recent results are encouraging: revenues for
1995 were $1.21 billion, an increase of 59% from $761 million in 1994. <BR>
<BR>
In the meantime, for Moderna's management, there's no time to rest. In the
third quarter of 1996, the company is expected to close its purchase of
US DNA Plant Technology Corporation, which has a leading position in the
agro-biotechnology sector, and also to acquire a majority stake in Royal
van Namen, a Dutch exporter of fresh produce, which will give the company
access to the European fresh produce market.<B> <BR>
<BR>
Mariana Crespo</B> <BR>
<bR><BR>
<H4>BEST NORTH AMERICAN BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Tennessee Valley Authority </H2>
Achieving spreads below the World Bank and the US treasury, and tighter
than other US agencies - all in the space of a year - is quite an impressive
feat; especially since Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) only entered the
international markets (where two of these benchmarks were notched up) for
the first time in its 63-year history, last June. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We are interested in cost-effective finance and increasing our investor
base,&quot; says John Hoskins, treasurer of America's largest public power
utility. In doing so, TVA has quickly pushed itself to the front rank of
international credits through market innovation and the solid and easily-understood
nature of its business. &quot;As a utility with real assets, such as dams
and power plants, investors can relate to us better than some of the other
US agencies,&quot; says Hoskins. <BR>
<BR>
But having a good story to tell is one thing: exploiting it to the full
with the right structures - as TVA has done - is quite another. To achieve
this, TVA took a fairly determined attitude in its discussions with investment
banks. <BR>
<BR>
The 30-year $650 million global bond issue last October, priced to yield
38 basis points (bp) over US treasuries and coming below an existing World
Bank bond, is a case in point. &quot;We were intrigued by the idea of a
30-year bullet [an issue repaid at maturity] that could be sold internationally,
but some banks told us that it would have to be a domestic issue,&quot;
says Hoskins. &quot;We chose Lehman Brothers [as bookrunner] because they
said it could be done.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
At the same time, a $1 billion five-year global was placed at spreads tighter
than other US agencies at the five-year mark. Of this offering, 70% was
sold outside the US, as was 50% of the 30-year bond. These issues, together
with TVA's debut global - a $2 billion with a 10-year tenor launched in
June 1995 - produced an international yield curve for TVA in the space of
a few months. <BR>
<BR>
But TVA's growing reputation as a creative borrower hasn't been confined
to the international markets. It issued $600 million of 40-year bonds in
the US market, in April, priced at par to yield 12bp below two-year treasuries,
making it the first US agency to raise funds at a lower cost than treasuries.
Puttable at par at two and 10 years, sole manager Morgan Stanley claimed
the bond would reduce TVA's borrowing costs by between 20bp and 25bp. <BR>
<BR>
More recently, TVA again showed its borrowing power in the US market by
issuing a $500 million bond with a 50-year maturity, priced at 62bp over
the US long bond and with a par call after five years<B>.</B> The issue
was sold in $25 denominations and was aimed at retail investors. Internationally,
TVA expects to return to the market before the end of 1996. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Brian Caplen</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST ASIAN BORROWER EX-JAPAN </H4>
<H2>KDB </H2>
The pre-eminence of Korea Development Bank (KDB) among Korean issuers has
long been a fact. With its paper, worth a combined $4 billion, accounting
for more than half of all Korean transactions in the US capital markets,
the bank has blazed a trail that others have been content merely to follow.
Now, with four global issues to its name, a recently upgraded AA- credit
rating and a record $3.1 billion of funds raised in 1995, KDB has established
itself as one of the world's premier credits in international capital markets.
<BR>
<BR>
Last year was hectic. A five-year $500 million global offering via CS First
Boston and Salomon in January was followed in May and August by KDB's 15th
and 16th series of samurai bonds, both for &#165;50 billion ($565 million),
and by a second $500 million global in November led by Lehman Brothers and
Salomon Brothers. There was also a Dm500 million ($330 million) bond through
Deutsche Bank in October, while KDB tapped its Euro MTN programme throughout
the year with eight issues worth a total of $650 million. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cross-border financing</B> <BR>
<BR>
If anything, the pace has quickened this year. There have been two more
samurai issues worth a total of &#165;40 billion, a Swfr200 million ($160
million) bond via Credit Suisse in March, and a HK$1 billion ($130 million)
transaction led by HSBC Markets and Fuji International Finance in April.
The fourth global overall - led by CS First Boston and Lehman Brothers in
late May - was expected to be worth up to $1 billion with a possible 10-year
maturity. KDB had also raised a further $230 million through the Euro MTN
programme by the end of March. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We expect to raise in the region of $3.5 billion in international
capital markets in 1996,&quot; says Kim Duck Soo, general manager of the
international finance department, and the man bankers say is largely responsible
for KDB's heightened profile. &quot;The bank has been increasing the volume
of loan growth by between 13% and 15% annually since 1992, while our clients'
growing foreign capital requirements, in both Korea and abroad, have generated
extra funding demand. We are seeing especially strong growth in cross-border
financing, for both Korean and non-Korean clients, in south-east Asia and
other emerging markets.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Kim says the emphasis will be on further diversifying into new currencies,
markets and maturities. &quot;Although we were upgraded from A+ by Standard
&amp; Poor's in May 1995, it is only now that I feel investors are treating
us as a genuine double A-rated issuer. Our strong growth in net profits
(from $130 million to $157 million last year) has combined with increased
domestic political stability following the general election and an easing
of tensions with North Korea to give us the best investor reception we have
known. Given the right conditions in price competition and cost-effectiveness,
we are considering issuing in both the French franc and sterling markets.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
With this in mind the bank, which has been upgraded from AA to AA+ by the
Japan Bond Research Institute, has applied to IBCA for a rating, which is
expected in late June. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;DS Kim has elevated KDB into a new class of Asian borrower,&quot;
says the director of debt capital markets at one US investment bank in Hong
Kong. &quot;Its Hong Kong dollar issue, for instance, quickly became the
benchmark for the market, and the name is now recognized as top-tier in
all of the world's major capital markets.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tony Shale</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST ASIAN CORPORATE ISSUER </H4>
<H2>Ayala Corporation </H2>
In two years, Ayala Corporation has built a reputation for innovative financing
unrivalled even by companies in Asia's more mature markets. Having overcome
investor concerns about political and economic stability in the Philippines
- it is the only Asian country with a Brady bond programme - Ayala has consistently
provided institutions with above-average returns at a time when rivals in
Indonesia and Thailand have left little on the table. <BR>
<BR>
The country's oldest and largest property company has carefully cultivated
foreign investors with a number of overseas roadshows. Its June 1994 debut
in international capital markets was a $50 million note exchangeable into
the B shares of wholly-owned subsidiary Ayala Land, via JP Morgan. (The
two-year issue has been fully converted.) <BR>
<BR>
This was followed by a $100 million convertible note led by Jardine Fleming,
in June 1995. &quot;It was a 3% note with a conversion premium, at Ps28.46,
set at 10% over closing price,&quot; says deputy treasurer Ramon Opulencia.
&quot;With the underlying shares now trading at Ps42 to Ps44, we have seen
a lot of happy investors.&quot; In November its issue of a zero-coupon note,
again exchangeable into Ayala Land B shares, met with similar success. Issued
at 70.38%, the bonds are now trading at 84% to 85% and, although the conversion
premium rose to 18% at Ps35, the underlying share price has since risen
to Ps42.5. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Each issue was an improvement on its predecessor,&quot; says Opulencia.
&quot;We managed to get the coupon down from 3% to zero during these deals,
but timed all the deals so that they appeared in favourable markets. Investors
were rewarded by our refusal to be pressured into forcing paper on to the
market.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Ayala's debut Eurobond, issued in May, has benefited from the earlier groundwork.
The five-and-a-half-year $100 million issue, led by JP Morgan, was priced
at 99.417 with an 8.125% coupon to yield 170 basis points (bp) over the
comparable five-year US treasury. It achieved the twin distinctions of being
the tightest-ever spread for a Filipino Eurobond (beating the 190bp recorded
by San Miguel in 1994) and arousing strong enough investor demand to be
increased in size to $110 million. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;It was an unrated issue targeted mostly at Asian and European investors,&quot;
says Opulencia. &quot;Given that the pricing was inside the sovereign spread,
we were delighted by the response for an issue that was roadshowed in Hong
Kong, Seoul, Taipei and Singapore.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Bankers were quick to add their plaudits. &quot;Since its launch, spreads
have tightened further on most Filipino issues, and it is good to see the
arrival of another top-quality corporate name in the international market,&quot;
says a syndicate manager close to the deal. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tony Shale</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST EUROPEAN CORPORATE AND BEST BRITISH BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Glaxo Wellcome </H2>
John Coombe has enjoyed a successful first year as head of funding at the
recently merged pharmaceuticals group, Glaxo Wellcome. Investors welcomed
the merger with open arms, and banks were also happy to help out the European
corporate. <BR>
<BR>
The new company's refinancing of the debt incurred by Glaxo's takeover bid
was deftly managed through a series of three international issues. Glaxo
Wellcome made clear that these were the only issues it intended for the
foreseeable future. Coombe confirmed that short-term requirements would
come from a US$5 billion US CP programme. <BR>
<BR>
The rarity of the issues helped to market the new name to investors. Coombe
employed &quot;a deliberate policy&quot; of using banks from the group which
had provided funds for the takeover. A number of the banks, which raised
&#163;8.1 billion through a syndicated loan for Glaxo, were retained. This
helped engender a feeling of warmth towards the new borrower - Glaxo was
a cash-rich company which had no need to borrow long-term for its operations.
CS First Boston, which ran the book for Glaxo Wellcome's first transaction,
a $500 million five-year maturity Eurobond, praised this &quot;rarely seen&quot;
approach, as &quot;mature and well thought-out; this could only help their
name when they came to the market&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
The largest Eurosterling offering ever by a corporate followed two days
after this hot debut last May. This &#163;500 million ($800 million) issue
had a 10-year maturity. Glaxo Wellcome waited until the market was receptive
before their third transaction, a 10-year maturity yankee or Eurobond. A
yankee is traditionally the method most corporates employ in raising long-maturity
dollar funds. Morgan Stanley offered this, but eventually Coombe settled
on a $500 million 10-year Eurobond, lead-managed by Lehman Brothers and
JP Morgan, this January. Michael Burrow, executive director and head of
corporate funding at Lehman, confirmed that it was &quot;extremely rare
for a corporate to be able to issue $500 million of 10-year Eurobonds on
terms that are better than those available in the US&quot;. Consequently,
the price has come in from 48bp over treasuries at launch to 45bp over currently.
The five-year deal has performed even better - coming in from 37bp over
treasuries to less than 20 over. <BR>
<BR>
Now 50% of Glaxo Wellcome's funding comes from long-term fixed-rate borrowing
and the rest from a short-term $5 billion US commercial paper programme,
which has more than $2 billion outstanding. Once Moody's follows Standard
&amp; Poor's by upgrading its credit to double-A status, Glaxo Wellcome
can be regarded as a model of post-merger refinancing. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Christopher Spink</B> <HR>
<H4>BEST EUROPEAN STATE FINANCIAL BORROWER </H4>
<H2>KfW </H2>
This year began with some welcome news for the borrowing team at Kreditanstalt
f&uuml;r Wiederaufbau (KfW). In January, the government announced that it
would revise the law on KfW, making explicit the government's obligation
to keep the bank solvent. <BR>
<BR>
The bank was set up after the war as a special type of legal entity whose
founder - in KfW's case, the federal government - is obliged by law to keep
it solvent. That gives KfW greater credit-worthiness than if it had a government
guarantee: with a guarantee there is always a risk of a delay in debt servicing
in the event of default. But this legal obligation on the federal government
was not explicitly spelled out in the law which set up KfW. As a result,
the German banking supervisory authorities have always imposed a 20% capital
weighting on KfW's debt, rather than the 0% weighting applicable to sovereign
paper. That made it cheaper for KfW to issue Deutschmarks in the Euromarket
rather than in the domestic market. <BR>
<BR>
Germany's banking supervisors reacted to the government's announcement by
cutting the debt weighting to 0%. KfW paper suddenly became more attractive
for domestic banks which buy bonds. &quot;Risk-wise this paper is equal
to Bunds, but it pays a spread over Bunds,&quot; says Christian Murach,
head of international capital markets at KfW. &quot;It's a great alternative
for investors who don't need top liquidity.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The effect of this rule change is that KfW will shift much of its borrowing
from the Euromarket to the domestic market. In 1995 it borrowed Dm11.7 billion
at home, a further Dm4.7 billion in Euro-Deutschmarks and just over Dm6
billion equivalent in other currencies. The split between Euro and domestic
markets, in other words, was about 50:50. This year Murach expects it to
be more like 2:1 in favour of the domestic market, and already the bank
has borrowed some Dm8 billion at home and Dm4 billion in the international
market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Product development</B> <BR>
<BR>
KfW's first deal after the rule change was therefore a vitally important
one. The bank needed to set a new benchmark, ideally 10 basis points (bp)
or more tighter than it had issued at before domestically - and below the
psychologically important spread on Schuldschein bonds. The 10-year deal,
for Dm2.5 billion, came on February 1 and was led by Dresdner Bank and WestLB.
Cleverly, KfW's borrowing team was generous with the spread: it was launched
at 23bp over Bunds, when equivalent credits in the market (the Republic
of Austria, for instance) were trading at 17bp or 18bp over. As a result
the bonds were tremendously popular with investors: the paper has since
tightened to 15bp over Bunds. &quot;We knew we shouldn't try to squeeze
the market,&quot; says Murach. &quot;We discussed [issuing at a spread in]
the high teens. Some banks were prepared to do it. Our follow-up transactions
will, step by step, be tighter.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The February jumbo was placed almost entirely within Germany. International
investors are usually reluctant to buy domestic paper, mainly for tax reasons.
Murach's eventual aim, therefore, is to develop a product that is equally
attractive to domestic and international investors. <BR>
<BR>
A part of that strategy is to generate as much liquidity as possible in
KfW's bonds. In the jumbo issue, KfW made a firm (oral) agreement with its
lead-managers that they must maintain a tight bid/offer spread in the bonds
and that they must make at-market prices in a good size. Unlike other German
issuers recently, however, KfW did not bind its banks in writing to a fixed
(6bp) bid/offer spread. Murach regards that as &quot;window-dressing&quot;.
You have to recognize, he says, that &quot;in some market conditions, bid/offer
spreads will widen&quot;. He also points out that spread agreements are
impossible to police: you just cannot force traders to answer their telephones.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Spread sensitivity</B> <BR>
<BR>
If KfW was generous for good reasons on its jumbo benchmark, on deals in
more peripheral markets, it is as aggressive as any other borrower. &quot;In
our strategic currencies - Deutschmarks, dollars, French francs, sterling
- we do transactions at the consensus level,&quot; says Murach. &quot;But
[markets such as] Swiss francs and lira are another matter.&quot; In these
currencies, KfW's paper is bought by retail investors who are &quot;not
spread sensitive&quot;. One typical such deal, a Swfr150 million six-and-a-half-year
issue in March picked up the following comment from a co-manager: &quot;Yes,
this is aggressive, but it is an extremely good quality borrower and everyone
knows that they come at aggressive levels.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
KfW brings a lot of small aggressive deals in such non-mainstream currencies.
Since the start of this year alone, it has issued in pesetas (twice), Swedish
kronor, Canadian dollars and Luxembourg francs. <BR>
<BR>
But KfW will need to borrow at least Dm21 billion this year - and maybe
much more if the Germany economy picks up. &quot;You can't do that much
with just opportunistic transactions,&quot; says Murach. And, even though
the German domestic market will become disproportionately important, KfW
will continue doing Euro-Deutschmark issues - even possibly a jumbo Euro-Deutschmark
later this year. &quot;We want to keep a presence in both markets. Even
though the domestic market is good, we need to keep our name in the international
market,&quot; argues Murach. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Garry Evans</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST FINANCIAL BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Abbey National </H2>
It may be better known as the home of Sherlock Holmes, but London's Baker
Street also houses Abbey National, which so far in 1996 has raised $4.4
billion in 19 tightly-priced issues. These have included deals in all the
major currencies as well as a large programme mainly in European currencies,
such as the Swiss franc and - a traditional favourite - the Italian lira.
The latter is a particularly important source of arbitrage for Abbey which,
among Italian investors, is one of the most favoured borrowers after the
European Investment Bank and the World Bank. <BR>
<BR>
What impresses investors about Abbey is the care it takes to market its
name. In France this year it spent considerable time talking to local investors.
Director of funding, Alex Braun, says it is a very easy credit story to
tell. &quot;The bank does not have a plethora of businesses,&quot; he explains.
In fact, there are four separate businesses: mortgages, consumer lending,
treasury and life insurance. A source of comfort to investors is also Abbey's
stable rating in recent years: Moody's awards it an AA2 and Standard and
Poor's a AA. <BR>
<BR>
France has been Abbey's key market this year: it has raised almost a fifth
of its funds there. Its best deal in 1996 so far was a Ffr3 billion ($593
million) 10-year issue in March which achieved very tight sub-Libor funds.
Abbey was taking advantage of one of the year's only genuine arbitrage opportunities,
in which a pool of French insurance company money was pouring into the 10-year
bond curve and was desperate to diversify out of French institutions, particularly
after the Cr&eacute;dit Foncier downgrade. Abbey attracted funds because
it was the only alternative to the German Landesbanks, which were heavy
issuers and had begun to bore the French investors. <BR>
<BR>
The future strategy involves consolidating recent gains and improving relative
spreads against other comparable borrowers, particularly German Landesbanks.
Braun estimates Abbey is raising sub-Libor funds only two or three basis
points off Landesbanks, in spite of its lesser credit rating. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Steven Irvine </B><bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST SUPRANATIONAL BORROWER </H4>
<H2>EBRD </H2>
Ask treasury officials of large international borrowers which other capital
markets issuers they most admire and chances are that the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) will be high on every list. &quot;They
are very smart, particularly on the derivatives side and they are very creative
on designing loans for their own customers,&quot; judges the head of borrowing
for one European sovereign. <BR>
<BR>
The bank enjoys several advantages. Its systems are new and up-to-date.
Most of its staff were trained at leading private sector banks. And it is
not slave to a huge annual borrowing requirement. It needs to take just
Ecu1.5 billion ($2 billion) of medium- and long-term funding from the markets
each year. &quot;That's what makes us different,&quot; agrees treasurer
Mark Cutis. &quot;We have a modest programme and we maximize it to the nth
degree.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tailored loans</B> <BR>
<BR>
The bank's funding targets are widely-known to lead managers as being around
40bp below Libor, as are the rates at which it will buy back its own debt
in a programme designed to make its paper more expensive, so enabling it
to issue at better levels. <BR>
<BR>
The bank borrows in 17 different currencies, including most European currencies
and some Asian ones. It swaps these borrowings into pools of liquidity,
predominantly denominated in just four currencies: dollars, yen, Deutschmarks
and Ecu. It scours the landscape for new primary markets to tap. EBRD has
been invited to issue debt in Taiwan and is also examining the Korean capital
markets. <BR>
<BR>
It entirely pre-funds its lending commitments and borrows wherever rates
are attractive. So, more than 40% of its liability book is denominated in
dollars, even though it raises little more than 5% of its initial funding
in dollars. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The idea is to pass on market rates to our borrowers,&quot; says Cutis.
The bank also wants to tailor loans to match the needs of its borrowing
customers exactly. If a project sponsor wants to borrow fixed-rate Finnish
markka from the EBRD, it will create that loan from its floating funding
pool. It's far removed from a strategy of borrowing directly in a currency
as and when the need for it arises. <BR>
<BR>
Cutis claims that the bank's treasury operations also work to the benefit
of buyers of its debt. &quot;We only borrow when investors want to buy our
paper. We could afford to stay out of the market for three years. We only
borrow if a deal can both meet our targets and work as a successful new
issue.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Peter Lee</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST FRENCH BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Cr&eacute;dit Local de France </H2>
Cr&eacute;dit Local is the largest issuer of Eurobonds in France and the
fifth largest in the world. With profits up 2% to Ffr1.48 billion last year
and its triple-A rating secure, it has emerged unscathed from the current
crisis in French banking. Listed in the CAC-40, Cr&eacute;dit Local is a
public company, although the government and the state-backed Caisse des
D&eacute;p&ocirc;ts et Consignations maintain a combined share-holding of
20%. The bank is also the most important lender to local and regional authorities
in France, with 42% of the market. <BR>
<BR>
Cr&eacute;dit Local had a record year in 1995. The bank raised Ffr53 billion
($10.3 billion) through 75 public and private issues. Over 90% of the debt
was placed outside France, a proportion that has remained fairly constant
since 1990. &quot;We have found that issuing on the international market
is better in terms of spread,&quot; says an official at Cr&eacute;dit Local.
&quot;There is no problem of saturating the French market.&quot; Cr&eacute;dit
Local issued in 14 currencies last year. Deutschmark issues represented
a quarter of the total, ahead of US dollars (16%) and Eurofrancs (14%).
In September and November, the bank launched its first Japanese retail deal,
two Dm1 billion issues placed entirely with Japanese investors via Nomura.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Our aim is to get a good placement and an aggressive swap,&quot; says
the official. &quot;Everything is swapped. We have very few needs in foreign
currency.&quot; The bank swaps systematically into floating rates and then
into francs at Libor or French Pibor. <BR>
<BR>
Last year, Cr&eacute;dit Local issued Ffr21 billion, 45% of its foreign
debt, in the form of Euro MTNs. Euro MTN issues give the bank more flexibility
than conventional issues, debt is raised more quickly and can be swapped
almost immediately, reducing currency risk. Cr&eacute;dit Local even has
its own in-house dealer. &quot;Euro MTNs allow us to issue very often,&quot;
says the official. &quot;With such light documentation, it is possible to
do one or two deals a day.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Cr&eacute;dit Local aims to raise Ffr42 billion in Eurobonds this year.
WithFfr19 billion already issued, it should meet this target with ease.
In the longer term, the bank's borrowing strategy will be affected by plans
to form a single group with Cr&eacute;dit Communal de Belgique (CCB). Although
an eventual merger has not been ruled out, the current proposal is to create
a subsidiary in which activities are shared, with equity split equally between
the two banks. <BR>
<BR>
CCB is the largest deposit bank in Belgium, an area of business denied to
Cr&eacute;dit Local because of its legal status. Closer ties with its Belgian
counterpart will help Cr&eacute;dit Local to diversify funding. &quot;With
access to deposits, we will need to borrow less on the markets,&quot; says
the official at Cr&eacute;dit Local. &quot;This should have a positive impact
on spreads in the secondary market.&quot; A merger, together with the introduction
of the European single currency, would have an even greater impact. &quot;We
would need Ffr10 billion or Ffr20 billion less a year,&quot; says the official.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Daniel Evans</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST GERMAN BORROWER </H4>
<H2>DePfa </H2>
It seems almost unbelievable now, but before March 1993, Deutsche Pfandbrief
und Hypothekenbank (DePfa) had not sold a single bond in the international
capital markets. <BR>
<BR>
These days the German bank - which lends mainly to local governments - is
one of a handful of the markets' jumbo borrowers. In the second half of
1995 and the first quarter of 1996 DePfa borrowed more ($15.2 billion) than
any other borrower, apart from the European Investment Bank, according to
Euromoney Bondware. DePfa has also over the past year been one of the most
innovative and marketing-led borrowers in the market. <BR>
<BR>
To understand the story, it is necessary to go back to the exciting days
of early 1993. DePfa, privatized in 1991, was beginning to grow fast. Assets
rose from Dm76 billion in 1991 to Dm111 billion in 1993 (they have since
grown to more than Dm150 billion). DePfa's funding needed to grow at a similar
pace. The snag, however, was that DePfa's main means of funding, Pfandbrief
securities (bonds supported, but not directly collateralized, by property
or public-sector loans), were little understood by international investors.
&quot;We wanted to diversify outside Germany,&quot; says Gerhard Bruckermann,
a member of the board of managing directors. &quot;That meant building name
recognition for DePfa.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The success DePfa has had in diversifying is demonstrated by a breakdown
of its borrowing in 1995. Of total funding needs of Dm34 billion, Dm5.3
billion came from the Eurobond market (in the form of straight bonds, not
Pfandbriefe), Dm8.5 billion from &quot;jumbo Pfandbriefe&quot; which are
sold both domestically and abroad, and a further Dm3.5 billion in MTNs and
structured Pfandbriefe, much of which are placed with international investors.
Traditional domestic issues (of Pfandbriefe and straight bonds) have fallen
to 56% of the total, from 84% in 1993. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Global Pfandbriefe</B> <BR>
<BR>
DePfa's two biggest breakthroughs have been the creation of the jumbo Pfandbrief
in August 1995 and the first global Pfandbrief in February 1996. The global,
a seven-year deal for Dm2 billion lead-managed by Commerzbank and Morgan
Stanley, was made available to US investors through a 144A facility. <BR>
<BR>
Sceptics in the market argued that this was not a true global because it
was not a public issue in the US. Bruckermann argues, however, that only
about 45 to 50 big US investors regularly buy Deutschmark bonds, and because
all of them are qualified institutional investors (and thus able to buy
144A private placements), it made no sense to do a public deal. Besides,
DePfa would have to restate its accounts to US standards, which it is not
prepared to do. Bruckermann claims that about 20% of the issue was placed
in the US and that there has been relatively little flowback to German investors.
<BR>
<BR>
Most of DePfa's big innovations are now behind it. Its funding needs, which
have jumped from Dm11 billion in 1991 to Dm35 billion this year, will not
grow as fast in future. The bank will continue to issue globals about once
a year and may try to push the size of each deal up to Dm5 billion. It may
tackle a couple of new markets, for example, the peseta and the Japanese
markets. DePfa hopes to open a representative office in Tokyo later this
year. <BR>
<BR>
What can be improved? Bruckermann argues that &quot;investor relations still
have a long way to go. We need to improve our coverage of institutional
investors&quot;. As a result, he spends a lot of time travelling around
the world for meetings with investors. <BR>
<BR>
Bruckermann also believes that the jumbo Pfandbrief product could be on
the verge of a &quot;crucial breakthrough&quot;. Central banks worldwide
are just beginning to buy jumbo Pfandbrief paper, most of which is rated
triple-A. If this trend becomes widespread and Pfandbriefe are recognized
globally to be as safe as triple-A sovereign paper, DePfa can continue comfortably
to be one of the international market's biggest borrowers. <B>Garry Evans</B>
<HR>
<H4>BEST DUTCH BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten </H2>
Life is becoming a little more difficult for Henk van Hemert, head of borrowing
at Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten (BNG), the triple-A bank which finances Dutch
local authorities. He complains that his favourite cheroots now come in
plastic, not paper, boxes. &quot;I used to run the administration of new
issues on the back of those cigar boxes,&quot; Hemert jokes. <BR>
<BR>
But BNG's issuance is becoming more complicated - certainly too sophisticated
to manage on a scrap of paper. As the only quasi-sovereign Dutch issuer
in the international markets, BNG has long been content to issue mainly
plain-vanilla paper in a couple of markets: Dutch guilders and Deutschmarks.
But in the second half of last year, its borrowing requirement rose sharply:
it issued $4.7 billion in the international market, compared with $2.1 billion
in the first half. In the first five months of 1996, its borrowing fell
back a little to $3.6 billion. The increased requirement has made Hemert
look further afield. <BR>
<BR>
In March, BNG sold its first French franc bond issue, a Ffr3 billion 10-year
deal, which came at a spread of 10bp over French government bonds. Hemert
says that he looked at the French market for some years but that &quot;the
swap arbitrage was not available before&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Hemert's next aim will be Japan. &quot;A retail-targeted Japanese deal is
our first priority,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We already have a good name with Japanese institutions.&quot; He also
wants to issue yankee bonds but, since the bank's funding requirement has
fallen this year, there is less urgency. <BR>
<BR>
BNG's top credit-rating means that it does not have to become too adventurous
to get very low-cost funds. Hemert says he has no other plans to issue in
new currencies and bankers shouldn't spend too much time trying to pitch
structured private placements to him. BNG has both domestic and Euro MTN
programmes, but the latter is used &quot;mainly as a documentation vehicle.
I can't be persuaded that for 1bp or 2bp it's worth doing a wacky private
placement of $25 million or $50 million. It's just not practicable&quot;,
says Hemert. <AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Garry Evans</B> </AUTHOR> <HR>
<H4>BEST SPANISH BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Argentaria </H2>
Argentaria, the partly government-owned holding company for several Spanish
banks, began borrowing in the international capital markets in May 1994.
Its aim was to attract a liquidity premium for issues which could not be
obtained by any single bank within the group borrowing separately. The company
needed to establish this source of funding because it has limited retail
deposits compared with other Spanish banks. <BR>
<BR>
The main vehicle for Argentaria's bond deals is a Euro MTN programme, initially
signed with a limit of $5 billion but recently increased to $10 billion.
Outstandings have risen quickly from $1.5 billion in 1994 to $5.6 billion
this May. <BR>
<BR>
The borrower is about to sign a $2 billion US MTN programme and also operates
a $1 billion Eurocommercial paper programme and a $500 million US CP programme.
<BR>
<BR>
The company is well known by international equity investors following three
privatization sales of stock, which have brought the government's ownership
down to 26%. For the last two years its borrowing team has been working
hard to develop a similarly strong following among bond investors. &quot;We
are ready to go and present to any set of investors, on demand,&quot; says
Pedro Urresti, assistant director and funding officer. In recent weeks its
management has met groups of investors in Japan, the Netherlands and the
UK. <BR>
<BR>
Some bond underwriters view Argentaria with caution. This is partly because
of its split credit rating. Moody's rates it Aa3, while Standard &amp; Poor's
cut its rating to A+ because of the reduction in the Spanish government's
ownership to 26%. Some bond houses complain that the borrower has been over-ambitious
on pricing and that spreads on some of its deals widened soon after launch.
<BR>
<BR>
Banks closer to the credit suggest this is unfair. The borrower decided
that it could not immediately launch large, liquid benchmark deals, because
bond investors were not sure how to price the credit. Instead it has established
its name among various investors with a series of fixed- and floating-rate
deals in dollars, yen, Deutschmarks, French francs and sterling, mostly
swapped into floating-rate pesetas. Each deal brings new investors opening
up credit lines for Argentaria. &quot;You cannot be opportunistic unless
your name is established with investors,&quot; says Urresti. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Greater sophistication</B> <BR>
<BR>
The borrower prides itself on responding quickly to offers for all sorts
of deals, including structured transactions, from its official MTN dealers
and from other banks. Urresti warns banks, however: &quot;Often we will
turn down structured deals if the hedge consumes a large amount of capital.&quot;
On more plain-vanilla deals, the borrower expects lead managers to maintain
liquidity with a decent trading spread. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;They have very defined funding targets and they are much more sophisticated
now than when they began,&quot; says one coverage officer close to the credit.
This banker recalls an uncomfortable moment earlier this year when lining
up an investor to buy a private placement from Argentaria. After first agreeing
to the trade, Argentaria called the deal off at the last moment, confusing
the bank and irritating the investor. It later emerged that Argentaria had
learned that it was about to be down-graded by Standard &amp; Poor's. The
investor would have been much more irritated had Argentaria cynically gone
ahead with the trade. Borrower and investor have maintained contact since.
<AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Peter Lee</B> </AUTHOR> <HR>One of Australia's
&quot;Big Four&quot;, Westpac returned to the Euromarkets, for the first
time since 1993, with a $350 million floating rate note, flat to Libor,
last September. This replaced a similar dollar deal which matured in October.
Both bonds had a two-year maturity, but the 1993 one had an effective spread
at launch of 16.2 basis points (bp) over Libor, whereas the 1995 issue came
at only 5bp over. This reflects the remarkable turnaround Westpac has experienced
from disastrous losses of A$1.562 billion in 1992 to profits of A$947 million
after tax for 1995. <BR>
<BR>
It is Westpac's improved credit rating that has driven funding over the
past year: Moody's upgraded the bank from A1 to Aa3 and Standard &amp; Poor's
has &quot;a positive outlook&quot; on it. This has naturally increased investors'
confidence in buying Westpac paper. Favourable market conditions for those
wishing to borrow floating rate funds also helped: the market soaked up
this scarce and relatively short-dated paper. So John Jarratt, head of global
funding and treasury at Westpac, followed the $350 million two-year deal
with two more two-year floaters: a rare &#163;250 million ($378 million)
sterling deal in late January and a $500 million one in April. Both were
lead-managed by BZW. <BR>
<BR>
Jarratt is keen to emphasize that Westpac's borrowing is not purely opportunistic:
&quot;We do have a strategic view to our borrowing, such as a need to diversify
our funding base. But spreads have been continually attractive as our credit
improves, so if a good opportunity is there we will certainly look at it.&quot;
Jonathan Minor, Jarratt's colleague at Westpac's treasury, saw such a chance
with the &#163;250 million deal in January. &quot;The sterling rate offered
was at a historical low,&quot; says Minor. BZW, the lead manager on this
deal, says the price has tightened from 2bp to 1bp over Libor. The $500
million deal in April has performed even better, priced almost flat now.
<AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Christopher Spink </B></AUTHOR> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Christopher Spink</B> 
<H4>BEST AUSTRALIAN BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Westpac </H2>
<bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST JAPANESE BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Mitsubishi Corporation </H2>
Market and regulatory quirks provide opportunities for Mitsubishi Corporation
Finance (MCF), and as long as they exist, this wholly-owned subsidiary of
one of Japan's leading trading houses expects to run a healthy business.
After a quiet start MCF is slowly gaining recognition as a master of this
art. <BR>
<BR>
London-based MCF was set up in the mid-1980s and began its activities fairly
conservatively by investing in US treasury bonds. It later moved on to Japanese
corporate bonds with equity warrants, issued in the Euromarkets and designed
to exploit an accounting loophole. More recently it has been earning spreads
of 60 basis points (bp) simply by depositing low-cost funds with Japanese
banks and taking advantage of the Japan premium - the higher interest rates
the banks have been paying as a result of the poor condition of their balance
sheets. <BR>
<BR>
Along the way MCF has made money by warehousing securities for Japanese
investors in Japanese corporate issues in the Euromarkets, at a time when
finance ministry rules prevented such investors from repatriating funds
within a certain period, and for foreign banks needing to park bond portfolios
to comply with the strictures of the European Union's capital adequacy directive.
Even investments in Italian government bonds, which make up 10% of MCF's
assets, were selected because a withholding tax has raised both their risk
and premium. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;These are the kinds of opportunities we look for,&quot; says Yuichi
(&quot;Luigi&quot;) Hiromoto, general manager of MCF's capital and money
markets department. &quot;Wherever there is some kind of regulation, we
believe there is an opportunity for business.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In the financial year 1995/96, this philosophy translated into pre-tax profits
of $26 million - the third consecutive record-breaking year - and a return
on equity of 12%. On the funding side, liabilities of $8.7 billion are accounted
for by a $6 billion medium-term note programme and $2.5 billion of commercial
paper. On the asset side, $5 billion is invested in corporate and sovereign
bonds, and asset-backed securities and $3.5 billion in bank deposits, CD's
and other money-market instruments. <BR>
<BR>
Looking ahead, MCF plans to diversify both its funding and assets, and hopes
to get a credit rating independent of Mitsubishi Corporation. In pursuit
of the first aim, MCF which has a funding target of 10bp below Libor or
Libid flat, plans to start issuing in the US commercial paper market and
it wants to place more of its MTNs with non-Japanese investors. Similarly,
it wants to increase the proportion of assets unconnected with Japan. <BR>
<BR>
MCF is keen to stress its independence from its parent company. At no time
has it ever raised funds for Mitsubishi Corporation and it only recently
started a small treasury operation lending small amounts to group subsidiaries.
MCF is given guidelines over the quality of assets it can hold, but is otherwise
free to pursue its own strategy in both funding and investment. MCF is,
however, assigned the same rating (AA-) as Mitsubishi Corporation. &quot;Our
biggest risk is that our rating depends on Mitsubishi Corporation,&quot;
says Hiromoto. &quot;We have to think about a situation where the parent
company is downgraded. What would we do then?&quot; For this reason MCF
would like, eventually, to have its own rating. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Brian Caplen</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST CANADIAN BORROWER </H4>
<H2>Province of Ontario </H2>
The Province of Ontario raises approximately 60% of its funding requirement<B>
</B>each year internationally. Gadi Mayman, executive director of the capital
markets division at the Ontario Financing Authority, says this level varies
from year to year. He envisages funding roughly C$10 billion for the coming
fiscal year. Since last January Ontario has borrowed over US$5 billion internationally.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;They are a savvy borrower who don't get the recognition they deserve,&quot;
says David Tory, director of syndicate at Merrill Lynch. Merrill was one
of three banks which jointly ran the book on the province's most impressive
deal of the year: a C$1.25 billion global issue with a 10-year maturity,
launched this January and increased from C$1 billion. This was Ontario's
first Canadian dollar global for two years and the first in this sector
for 18 months. According to Tory, this represented a &quot;magnificent performance&quot;:
the spread has come in from 30 basis points (bp) to 22bp over the December
2005 Canadian government bond. Although mainly appealing to US investors,
since the US and Canadian dollar trade very much in line, this global was
also distributed in Europe and appealed to some Asian investors as well.
<BR>
<BR>
The market has received large deals, such as this Canadian global, happily
during the first quarter of this calendar year. Large borrowers such as
double-A rated Ontario with flexible funding policies, reacted favourably
to these accommodating market conditions - taking advantage when they could.
<BR>
<BR>
By listening to its lead-managers and accepting advice about when each transaction
should be announced, Ontario has comfortably reached its targets and has
already sorted out much of its requirement for the coming year. A further
C$8.2 billion remains to be placed before next April. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tapping Japanese market</B> <BR>
<BR>
The popularity of Ontario's respected name convinced Mayman, for the first
time last year, to tap the large Japanese retail investor base, which is
happy to accept currency risk. Daiwa Europe, Nomura and Yamaichi have all
led deals for Ontario. Mayman will &quot;probably look at this market again
this year&quot;, particularly after raising &#165;25 billion (US$295.5 million)
last August through a loan arranged by the Nippon Life Insurance Company.
<BR>
<BR>
Not every international deal by Ontario is free from problems, however.
A Swfr250 million Eurobond of five-year maturity was launched in March at
the same time as the publication of favourable US employment data, which
adversely affected bond markets. Thus the yield has remained quite sluggish.
Perhaps this has influenced Ontario's return to domestic markets this month
with an auction of &quot;Ontario Saving Bonds&quot;. When these were last
issued in February 1995 they raised C$1.6 billion. With strength at home
as well as abroad, Ontario should comfortably meet its targets ahead of
schedule this year as well. <AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Christopher Spink</B>
</AUTHOR> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST ISSUER OF GLOBALS </H4>
<H2>Canada </H2>
The global bond market has been relatively quiet over the past year. Normally
few issuers attempt a global - it is the domain of the benchmark setter,
who rarely has to stand up and shout. Decibels have dropped even lower than
usual this year. <BR>
<BR>
In such a leisurely atmosphere one of the most relaxed international borrowers
made its debut in this sector. Canada has no specific borrowing targets.
It comes to the international markets only to maintain foreign exchange
reserves, not for deficit purposes. With fluctuating exchange rates, Canada
is a fortunate and rare borrower. <BR>
<BR>
When Canada issued two globals worth $1.5 billion each - a five-year last
May followed by a 10-year in July - spreads tightened surprisingly quickly.
Lead-managed by Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch, this borrowing wasn't quite
as simple as it first sounds. In 1994 Canada's first international issue
since 1987, a $2 billion Eurobond, sold more slowly than the lead managers
had hoped. So timing for this next issue was crucial. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;If the market had not been there, we wouldn't have issued,&quot; confirms
John Cockerline, financial markets division chief at the Canadian treasury.
&quot;The best time to issue was May to July last year,&quot; says Roger
Bates, director of syndicate at Deutsche. &quot;In volume terms, the first
quarter of 1995 was the lowest of the year, so by this time, the market
was ripe for global offerings.&quot; Canada truly seems to have become &quot;a
darling of the market&quot;, in Bates's words. <BR>
<BR>
The 10-year offering was slightly less successful in its pricing than the
five-year, competing as it did with other issues. Despite hiccups around
November regarding the Quebec referendum, prices have now stabilized at
25bp over US treasuries for the five-year and 36bp over for the 10-year
offering. Perhaps the most satisfying aspect of this deal is that it was
truly global and not just &quot;a talked-up yankee with a global label attached&quot;,
as Bates put it. <BR>
<BR>
Canada doesn't develop a debt programme <I>per se</I>, since it borrows
only for FX reserve reasons; its requirement depends on the climate of the
market. However, in last March's budget the treasury outlined a need to
increase reserve levels. It is also developing a US medium-term note programme,
which will provide even more flexibility. <P ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Christopher
Spink</B> 
<H4>BEST USER OF EMTNS </H4>
<H2>Beta Finance Corporation </H2>
Like most success stories, Beta's philosophy is deceptively simple: be involved
in everything, look at the whole market and see where it is not performing.
<BR>
<BR>
The company was incorporated in 1989 and now has over a billion dollars-worth
of equity capital. This is leveraged by borrowing commercial paper and medium-term
notes (Euro MTNs and US MTNs), and re-investing the proceeds from this funding.
Everything the company buys and sells is swapped into floating-rate dollars.
The securities it owns pay a higher coupon than it is obliged to pay on
the securities that it issues. And the spread between the two is the company's
profit. <BR>
<BR>
There are two reasons why this works: credit risk and liquidity risk. Beta
is rated triple-A as a result of its capitalization. However, just over
half of what it buys is triple-A. It also buys securities rated double-
and single-A, whose issuers have to pay more for their funds. Furthermore,
though Beta funds mainly with short-dated liabilities, it buys assets with
an average life of five to eight years. Even if the debt is triple-A, these
will pay slightly over Libor once swapped. Beta currently pays three-month
Libor minus 8bp or 9bp for its favoured one-year funds. <BR>
<BR>
Beta is naturally advantaged as an issuer since the company functions as
a debt machine. It has to issue to make money. This means that it has a
permanently-manned treasury desk. Paul Stephens and Richard Burwood run
the EMTN programme. &quot;Other issuers have one corporate treasurer,&quot;
says Burwood. &quot;What happens if he is in a meeting that morning? We
can always give a dealer a price.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Dealers themselves bear him out. &quot;They are always there, ready to give
a quick response,&quot; says Kyran McStay, head of the Salomon Brothers'
EMTN desk. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Quick turnaround times</B> <BR>
<BR>
The reason borrowers want to issue EMTNs is the saving in time and money.
At its most basic level, an EMTN programme is just a means of documentation,
albeit a very efficient one. The key is to maximize this efficiency by issuing
quickly and accurately. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;They are very well set up internally,&quot; says McStay. &quot;All
the homework seems to have been done to cost out their requirements.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Burwood explains that the desk has levels prepared. &quot;This means we
can turn around a vanilla enquiry almost immediately,&quot; he says. &quot;Structures
may take a little longer. But we anticipate the volatility of certain indices
on a week-by-week basis. This means that when a structure comes up, we can
slot our research into the formula. A new structure may need fresh analysis,
but we only get thrown about once a quarter.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Importantly in the diverse EMTN market, Beta can deal with enquiries in
any currency and any structure. What's more, dealers report that their pricing
analysis is among the most considered. &quot;If a bank wants to show a sophisticated
structure, it'll go to Beta first,&quot; says one dealer. &quot;They seem
to have excellent models - they really understand what we're telling them.
They're similarly good on currencies.&quot; (Portuguese escudos and Thai
baht were this year's highlights.) &quot;For example, they have the most
sensitive prices on Hong Kong dollars post-1997. This is uncommonly far-sighted.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Beta is not unique in this. But combined with its position as a triple-A
corporate, it offers investors a very unusual story. &quot;There are only
three or four other issuers in London who have that sort of commitment to
their MTN desk,&quot; says Burwood. &quot;These are all very high-profile
names - and Beta is going to be a lot cheaper than them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Dealers agree. &quot;The degree of speed and sophistication is unparalleled
in their section,&quot; says one. &quot;The professionalism is very rare
for corporates and indeed for triple-As.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Beta resents being termed an &quot;arbitrage vehicle&quot; by some in the
market: arbitrage connotes spotting market opportunities with no risk or
active management of a portfolio. The company did spot a market opportunity;
but there was a risk it was not going to work. Beta was only created after
Alpha Finance, as the name suggests, tried the experiment first. A successful
year in 1989 suggested that the principle was working, and Beta was set
up, for a 10-year period only. Beta has now been extended to 2004, and the
creation of a new company, as yet unnamed - Gamma? - is under way. <BR>
<BR>
It is a good story for the investor to hear. But the issuer needs it heard
also. Perhaps because Beta is not a household name, it has had to market
hard. &quot;Beta is a paradigm of how to help the dealer to market its name,&quot;
says one dealer. &quot;As a constructed triple-A, it is required to tell
its story, but it has made the most of this. Its brochure is used as a model
by other issuers. It was even translated into Japanese - which shows an
astute understanding of the sort of market we are in.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
With the importance of Japanese investors in the market, it was surprising
a year ago that Beta was issuing only 10% of its paper in yen, well under
the market average of 60%. But it has done two roadshows there in the last
12 months, each resulting in a flurry of sales. <BR>
<BR>
A dealer close to Beta thinks this month's award is &quot;fully deserved&quot;.
&quot;But they won't believe it,&quot; he says. &quot;They're too modest.
They're always asking, how can we do things better, what do other borrowers
do that we don't? And I have to tell them to their face that they're good.
In fact, I nominated them as my favourite issuer in our internal reports
this week.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But having a good story and telling it well is not enough. The key for an
issuer is to form relationships, and have dealers and investors coming back
for more. <BR>
<BR>
The first reason investors and dealers come back is Beta's consistency.
&quot;With Beta you know where you stand. They don't screw you around,&quot;
says one dealer. The second reason is Beta's tight control of the secondary
market. Burwood explains: &quot;Something we do that few others do is actively
buy back our own paper. What's more, if investors want to trade out, we
will always quote very aggressive spreads - typically no more than an eighth
of a percent. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Dealers may find it tough to sell on, so we are doing everybody a
favour. Because we have actively supported the paper, they will want to
speak to us again. Ironically, by pumping money back in, we will have a
chance to make some in the future. A lot of issuers don't seem to understand
this basic point. You can't just issue and forget. It's an ongoing process.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Roadshows form an important part of building relationships. Aside from the
Japanese trips, Beta has been to Germany (getting an excellent response
from money market funds), Switzerland (many more Swiss francs as a result),
Luxembourg, Holland, France and Italy in the past year. There was also a
series of meetings in London. The company's focus was on Europe, where it
felt itself to be less well known than in the US, and, in particular, on
the important Swiss retail market. <BR>
<BR>
The strategy has paid off. After Beta's US dollar public issue in May, bookrunner
SBC Warburg commented: &quot;We had considerable success selling to retail
clients in Switzerland.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Public issues are another example of Beta's long-term commitment. &quot;Beta's
strength is in the shorter-term maturity range, particularly at one year,&quot;
says Charles Covell, Beta's managing director. &quot;We use longer-term
public issues sparingly - to remind people of the name and make a benchmark
to show institutions the levels at which they should be buying our private
placements.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
&quot;A key to Beta's success is its very open dialogue with its dealers,&quot;
says Olivier Jalouneix, head of the trading desk at Morgan Stanley. Beta
issues &quot;dealer of the week&quot; awards and traders are said to be
proud to receive the faxed template. &quot;It's really supposed to be light-hearted,
but EMTN dealers can be very competitive and every incentive for them to
call us helps,&quot; says Burwood. <BR>
<BR>
The eight-strong dealer group is also monitored closely, and Salomon Brothers
was officially appointed last year for good reverse-enquiry work. &quot;Beta
are one of the only issuers in the market who would give a better price
to an appointed dealer versus reverse-enquiry,&quot; says Jalouneix. Non-dealers,
however, are by no means ignored. Both dealers and non-dealers feel encouraged
to call. <BR>
<BR>
Covell is typically circumspect about the future. &quot;We don't have a
monopoly on good ideas,&quot; he says. &quot;As the EMTN market evolves,
there's going to be increasing competition for capital. With other issuers
coming to the market looking like Beta, and Landesbanks more actively managing
their programmes, we must be the front-runner to succeed.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Covell stresses that much of Beta's success is down to the dealers. It is
to them that Beta turns for advice. &quot;We're here to do what the markets
want, and dealers gravitate towards the most responsive treasury desks.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;With Beta it's not any one thing,&quot; says a member of their dealer
group. &quot;It's the whole package.&quot; <AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Kieran
Clifton</B> </AUTHOR> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST USE OF RETAIL-TARGETED DEALS </H4>
<H2>GECC </H2>
&quot;No borrower can get up in the morning and specifically set out to
target retail,&quot; says Jeffrey Werner, senior vice-president and treasurer
of GECC. Nevertheless, the appeal to retail investors of a name such as
GECC undoubtedly helps him to reach GECC's borrowing requirement with ease.
<BR>
<BR>
The security of retail backing - having confidence that the paper will find
a home - gives room for manoeuvre within a funding programme. Although most
companies with well-known names and AAA ratings could challenge for this
award - some of those polled preferred Unilever - over the past year GECC's
paper has been more popular than usual. One banker, Alex Thill of Dresdner
Bank, calls the name &quot;better than the World Bank&quot;. And Richard
Johnson, head of syndicate at SBC Warburg, which ran over a quarter of GECC's
deals last year, says: &quot;Swiss retail investors do like them. Therefore
instead of large institutionally-targeted deals, they do smaller deals aimed
at retail.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
This may be helped by the extensive MTN programme that GECC's treasury frequently
uses. Most of the company's debt is now raised in this way. Over 200 small
deals have been issued off this comprehensive funding programme since last
May. In fact GECC publishes specific targets, which change from day to day,
for certain currencies on its MTN programme. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Perfect timing</B> <BR>
<BR>
Overall Werner had to raise $26 billion for GECC last year, although with
so much paper in the market, the company's liquidity is not a problem for
investors. &quot;Their secondary market performance is really outstanding,
considering the amount of paper they issue,&quot; says David Tory, head
of syndicate at Merrill Lynch. &quot;They come at a spread which other similar
issuers wouldn't even consider but, because of their retail investor base,
their paper is taken up by these investors.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Perhaps the highlight deal of the year was a Ffr4 billion ($820 million)
deal of nine-year maturity, announced on January 2. &quot;Two-billions-worth
sold out in 48 hours, so we increased the issue twice to Ffr4 billion and
could have taken it up to five billion as well,&quot; says Joe Dryer, head
of syndicate at Paribas, which lead-managed the transaction. <BR>
<BR>
The deal's timing was particularly impressive. Domestic French investors
were full of French names and were looking for a non-French name; simultaneously
many investors outside France were lacking French francs. Put together,
these factors ensured the success of what became the largest-ever French
franc Eurobond issue. <BR>
<BR>
Most of the buyers of this paper were, interestingly, institutional investors.
Yet, paradoxically, even this issue relied on GECC's good retail name: it
could not have dreamt of such a bold deal without the back-up of its retail
investor base. <BR>
<BR>
Jeffrey Werner expects to see &quot;much the same&quot; borrowing in the
coming year, and a continuing flexible policy. <P ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Christopher
Spink</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST USER OF EXOTIC CURRENCIES </H4>
<H2>IFC </H2>
Part of the mandate of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) is to
develop emerging markets, particularly those of its shareholders or member
countries. <BR>
<BR>
There is nothing unique about this - many supra-national institutions are
committed to development. What makes the IFC different is the manner in
which it issues international bonds in previously-unused &quot;exotic&quot;
currencies, and the consistency with which it has adhered to its mandate
as a particular matter of policy. <BR>
<BR>
John Kerr, origination director at HSBC Markets, lead-managed the IFC's
issue in Czech koruna (for Kr2 billion, worth $70 million) with a two-year
maturity. He views the corporation highly. &quot;Among sovereigns and supra-nationals
they are one of the most professional - and are particularly well-versed
in developing markets,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We are a long-term player,&quot; says Ritva Laukkanen, senior financial
officer for European market borrowing at the IFC. &quot;We swap all our
transactions back into US dollars.&quot; The fact that the IFC's borrowing
is swap-driven makes it all the more impressive, and means that the strategies
of the borrowing and lending sections of the corporation are closely connected.
<BR>
<BR>
Over the past year, a pattern has emerged in the IFC's issues in currency
sectors outside the established few. If an initial small tranche of paper,
generally of short maturity, is successful, it is followed by a larger offering.
The Kr2 billion Czech deal, for example, which was issued in April, followed
a smaller Kr1 billion deal in October 1995. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;You have to look at each market differently,&quot; says Laukkanen.
In many cases, she says, the IFC's role is &quot;as much a matter of educating
investors as of educating domestic users of markets&quot;. The IFC tries
to use local banks in its exotic currency issues. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Associated risks</B> <BR>
<BR>
Not all IFC transactions have gone without a hitch. Last July, the largest-ever
Marathon issue, for Dr100 billion ($440 million), caused market consternation:
despite this, all the paper was successfully placed. And with the recent
loss of confidence in the rand, the R250 million ($70 million) Eurobond,
announced on February 6, has stood up less well than it might have. <BR>
<BR>
Laukkanen puts this down to the risks of using emerging markets. &quot;You've
got to expect it,&quot; she says. &quot;That's why we have the risk built
into the yield offered.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Such ups and downs are all part of the IFC's long-term policy of developing
the domestic markets of member countries. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We are particularly keen to use emerging markets,&quot; says Laukkanen.
As part of this ongoing strategy, the IFC is considering the opportunities
presented by Asian countries. <AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT"> <B>Christopher Spink</B>
</AUTHOR> <bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST USER OF SYNDICATED LOANS </H4>
<H2>BTR </H2>
Some deals divide the market. BTR's &#163;700 million ($1.2 billion) syndicated
loan, launched last August as a five-year revolving credit, was one of these.
In <I>Euroweek</I>'s review of 1995, this deal was voted by banks polled
as both the fifth best and the ninth worst deal of the year. Yet purely
from an issuer's perspective, this was certainly impressive borrowing even
if other market participants may have made little from the transaction.
The money was raised to finance the purchase of outstanding shares in BTR'S
Nylex subsidiary. <BR>
<BR>
BTR's name must secretly be mud amongst those who lent the money. BTR squeezed
fees until banks in the syndicate were hurting. But it managed to get its
money at the cheapest possible rate by letting banks bid competitively for
the privilege of arranging the facility. The lowest was rumoured to be Libor
plus 10 basis points (bp). The final margin, which Chemical (now Chase)
and Lloyds gained, came at Libor plus 11.5bp. The commitment fee is 6bp.
Some observers described this as &quot;hardly a comfortable fit&quot;; others
saw it as &quot;really pushing out the envelope&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
A treasury spokesman at BTR explained the circumstances of its borrowing:
&quot;We are very pleased with the finance package put together by Chemical
Bank and Lloyds Bank's capital markets group. We believe that the deal that
was negotiated recognizes BTR's standing and reputation in the market. It
has enabled us to acquire the Nylex minority, furthering our development
strategy.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Obviously lending was very much driven by the (more than 40) participating
banks which would like to maintain good relations with BTR. At its recent
annual general meeting, BTR warned of a possible drop in profits this year.
Perhaps in the face of these perceived problems the borrowing rates seem
all the more magnificent - as long as you didn't do the deal. <AUTHOR ALIGN="RIGHT">
<B>Christopher Spink</B> </AUTHOR> <BR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST USER OF ASSET-BACKED ISSUES </H4>
<H2>Citibank </H2>
&quot;It's rare that you hit the sweet spot that accommodates both issuer
and investor preferences,&quot; says Chuck Wainhouse, head of asset-backed
issues at Citibank. Citi did just that with the epoch-making deal it announced
in April - a credit card-backed Dm1 billion ($655 million) floating-rate
issue with a five-year maturity lead-managed by Merrill Lynch. <BR>
<BR>
Previously this sector was dominated by fixed-rate dollar transactions;
the widening investor base for these securities is a welcome development
for other issuers and asset-hungry international investors. Citi hopes to
be chasing further credit card deals in various European currencies. <BR>
<BR>
Although some banks nominated the series of eight securitized issues by
the Airplanes Pass Through Trust for this category, the excitement created
by Citi's Deutschmark won Wainhouse's team the award. &quot;The fact that
this new AAA credit offers a spread over Libor has been driving the DM market,&quot;
says David Tory, head of syndicate at Merrill Lynch. <BR>
<BR>
The deal was originally conceived back in 1994, but it took some time before
it could be structured and a floating-rate interest payment agreed. Various
regulatory queries by the German authorities, unfamiliar with the asset-backed
format, also had to be answered. Citi eventually announced its Deutschmark
offering in April after seeing the success of Volkswagen's Dm500 million
asset-backed issue, which was launched in February. According to Wainhouse,
in the secondary market the price has tightened, coming in from Libor plus
7bp - which many thought pretty mean as a launch price - to Libor plus 5.75bp.
<BR>
<BR>
Since its first asset-backed security in late 1988, Citi has issued more
than $47 billion of securitized debt, most of it taking credit card funds
off Citi's balance sheet. Since these cards now operate in 31 countries,
this gives Citi a valuable way of tapping local currencies. <BR>
<BR>
Citi's only other foreign borrowing apart from the Deutschmark deal came
from a &#165;30 billion ($280 million) samurai bond issue last July. Last
year, $9 billion in total was issued by Citi's special-purpose asset-backed
funding vehicle, Credit Card Master Trust. Wainhouse envisages similar levels
of funding for the coming 12 months. <P ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Christopher Spink</B>
<bR><BR><BR>
<H4>BEST USER OF COMMERCIAL PAPER </H4>
<H2>Ford Credit Europe </H2>
Set up in 1993 to organize funding for Ford's European subsidiaries, Ford
Credit Europe last year decamped to Dearborn, Michigan, home to Ford Motor
Credit. Pierre Chevron, the treasury specialist who looks after short-term
funding and, specifically, commercial paper (CP) for Ford Credit Europe,
now has to start work at 2 am in the US to coincide with European trading
hours. <BR>
<BR>
This transcontinental situation hasn't hindered operations though: in fact,
Ford has confirmed its status as the largest corporate issuer of commercial
paper this year, most of it raised through a Eurocommercial paper (ECP)
programme signed in October 1993. This $3 billion multi-currency facility
(since raised to $5 billion) arranged by Goldman Sachs, can issue a range
of maturities. Ford also has domestic French franc, US dollar and, from
last January, Belgian franc commercial paper programmes. Recently an increasing
number of issuers have used the Belgian franc sector, which Roger Rosi&egrave;re,
head of CP at Generale Bank, puts down to the decent prices available at
the moment in certain maturities. <BR>
<BR>
Chevron verifies that half of Ford's funding is short-term: longer-term
borrowing is principally raised through Ford's $5 billion MTN programme.
Such a massive debt facility requires him to be on the look out for market
prospects all the time. This year, for example, Dutch guilders have proved
a popular source of funding. Chevron often takes advantage of arbitrage
and swap opportunities, but he is &quot;keen to look at new opportunities&quot;
if they help to keep the cost of funding down. &quot;We are open to change,&quot;
says Chevron. &quot;As long as it's for the better.&quot; 

<B>Christopher Spink</B> <bR><BR><BR>
<H3><A NAME="sovereign-debt"></A>The jugglers of sovereign debt </H3>
<H4>Who are the best sovereign liability managers? Unlike companies and
banks, they have no handy measure for return on assets or return on equity.
How do they gauge their performance against the markets and their peers?
Enter the benchmark portfolio, value-at-risk, and other techniques borrowed
from active asset and balance-sheet managers. Peter Lee reports. </H4>
Officials of Ireland's National Treasury Management Agency (ntma) are used
to eager bankers knocking at their door, seeking to give them advice. Now
they're getting used to another bunch of visitors - from Belgium, Colombia,
Australia - eager to compare notes on the best way to manage their country's
national debt. <BR>
<BR>
From around 1990, several sovereign borrowers with hefty outstanding debt
- including Ireland, Sweden, New Zealand and Denmark - pioneered a more
sophisticated approach to managing their liabilities. They began to think
of themselves as operating like asset managers, only in reverse, working
to pare down their regular debt service costs, as an asset manager would
seek to add return to his portfolio. <BR>
<BR>
For most of these borrowers, the cornerstone of their new liability management
programmes has been a benchmark portfolio of liabilities. This represents
the ideal debt profile the country's debt managers would like to have. Their
first task is to transform their existing stock of liabilities, through
cash and derivatives trades, until it closely resembles the benchmark portfolio.
Then active liability managers may deviate from the benchmark according
to their views on currency and interest rates. <BR>
<BR>
Other sovereign borrowers have been examining their approach and trying
to catch up. Belgium will likely soon reveal a new strategy for liability
management to be implemented next year. Bankers speculate that Portugal
and Italy may be considering a more active liability management approach.
Australia has long managed its debts against a benchmark portfolio and is
now reviewing this while also considering the usefulness of a seperate treasury
management agency licensed by the ministry of finance, like Ireland's. Emerging
market sovereigns are also learning the game. Colombia is set to overhaul
its national debt programme. <BR>
<BR>
The pioneers have all been refining their strategies to minimize the costs
and manage the risks of large national debts - especially those with a substantial
foreign currency component. It's a task which may seem less glamorous than
planning and executing annual new borrowing programmes, but it is ultimately
more far-reaching. <BR>
<BR>
For example, the Bank of England has to execute an annual central government
borrowing requirement of &#163;35 billion. At the same time, it must manage
and service some &#163;250 billion worth of existing government debt. Understanding
the impact of interest rate moves on the cost of servicing that debt, creating
the right mix of maturity structures, fixed, floating and index-linked debt,
are tasks which, if performed well, could bring substantial cost savings.
<BR>
<BR>
Unlike the Bank of England, which finances almost exclusively through a
large domestic bond market, many other sovereign borrowers face a further
complexity: a large volume of foreign currency debt. Movements in exchange
rates can have a huge impact on the cost of paying principal and interest
in foreign currencies. <BR>
<BR>
Many sovereign liability managers will find echoes in the experience of
the pioneering New Zealand debt management office, which at the end of the
1980s took responsibility for the debt the country had run up earlier in
the decade - almost 50% of it in foreign currencies. &quot;What we were
taking over was an historical artefact,&quot; says Phillip Anderson, principal
in the London office. &quot;One of the first things we asked ourselves was
what kind of portfolio should we have ideally.&quot; It didn't take much
sophisticated analysis to realize that the country had too much foreign
currency debt, and the debt office began a long-term effort to reduce it.
It also realized that selling huge amounts of New Zealand dollars to pay
that back quickly would have had a damaging affect on a small economy. <BR>
<BR>
While aiming eventually to do away with foreign currency debt, it designed,
as an interim strategy, a better mix for its foreign currency liabilities,
using mean variance optimization. This measures the historical volatility
of foreign currency movements against the New Zealand dollar to identify
which currencies might be expected to become either expensive or cheap to
repay. The borrower then faces a choice of risk versus reward. Keeping its
liabilities in currencies which closely track the New Zealand dollar, means
less risk of debt service suddenly becoming very expensive and also less
chance of it cheapening dramatically. New Zealand's prime aim was to reduce
risk, rather than take chances in an effort to minimize debt costs. <BR>
<BR>
New Zealand attempted to create a mix of foreign currency debt weighted
to imitate a basket or composite currency equivalent to the New Zealand
dollar. Its rough guide was to have 50% of its debt in us dollars, 25% in
yen and 25% in European currencies. This acknowledged that the New Zealand
dollar belongs to the dollar block without being a proxy for the us dollar.
&quot;We kept our actual liabilities close to the ideal, low-risk portfolio,&quot;
says Anderson, &quot;partly because we believe that the average New Zealand
voter is risk-averse and also because we feel that we have no particular
advantage versus other market participants in guessing where currency markets
will go.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Even such a simple sounding strategy is based on a number of big assumptions:
that historical exchange rate movements are of any value in predicting future
movements and that there is a direct trade-off between risk and reward.
For New Zealand's debt managers these were real concerns. The New Zealand
dollar floated only in 1985. The ideal portfolio was devised using limited
historical data. <BR>
<BR>
Paul Tucker, head of the gilt-edged and money market division at the Bank
of England says: &quot;The difficulty in assessing debt management against
a benchmark is how you know whether the chosen benchmark is the right one.
That is not as trite a question, as it sounds.&quot; The Bank of England,
and other managers of predominantly domestic currency debt, see less value
in creating ideal portfolios for the interest rate structure of their debt.
Instead they pursue tactics which intuitively should bring a cost benefit:
for example, creating liquid benchmark bonds to attract a premium and designing
a range of instruments - such as principal- and interest-only strips - to
attract different investors. <BR>
<BR>
Still, many borrowers rely on theoretically-devised portfolios as a benchmark
to measure their debt management efforts. Sovereign borrowers are not like
corporates or banks which have portfolios of assets to measure against their
liabilities. Banks even have a clearly-measured margin between the two.
Countries run a one-sided book. <BR>
<BR>
The Irish ntma was set up in 1990. Advised by jp Morgan it promptly built
a shadow portfolio for the country's liabilities, as a benchmark against
which to measure the performance of its real portfolio. The shadow portfolio
splits the debt by currency mix, final maturity structure and interest rate
profile. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Shadow debt portfolio</B> <BR>
<BR>
The shadow portfolio, or the benchmark - the two terms are interchangeable
- is composed as an ideal, long-term strategic mix of liabilities. For example,
it contains an even final maturity profile so that unusually large amounts
of debt do not fall due in any year. <BR>
<BR>
Debt managers of countries using such a shadow portfolio create value by
deviating from the benchmark according to their tactical trading views.
As with an asset manager, there are limits on how far the real portfolio
can move away from the benchmark. <BR>
<BR>
For example, Denmark manages its foreign currency liabilities and its reserves
together on a net basis. It calculates that, in recent years, revaluations
have led to a wide disparity of annual gains or losses on its net position:
a loss of dkr3.6 billion in 1988, a gain of dkr8.6 billion in 1985. Since
1992, its portfolio managers at the central bank have been allowed to deviate
plus or minus 5% from the benchmark weights for each currency - including
dollars, yen, sterling, Swiss francs and the ems currencies. These are broad
limits. Within them, an investment committee determines a narrower band
for trading each week, which may be above or below the benchmark-neutral
position. Within that band, dealers may take their positions. Net positions
are calculated daily and performance is measured against the benchmark.
It's a typical system for putting limits on a government's risk exposure.
Deviating too far from the benchmark brings obvious real risks. <BR>
<BR>
Some borrowers have taken advantage of low Japanese interest rates by borrowing
heavily in yen over the last 12 months. &quot;But you would never put a
major part of the portfolio in yen, because volatility of the yen versus
the Irish pound has been so high,&quot; says Paul Sullivan, director of
the ntma. &quot;That would be too high a risk.&quot; He adds: &quot;Perhaps
if the size of the debt were small relative to the budget and the economy,
you could make large tactical trading decisions with less heed to volatility.
But you have to be careful about the potential variation of your debt service
cost if that is a significant piece of the government budgetary expenditure
each year.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
By the same token, some governments might be attracted by the theory that,
as yield curves are generally positively sloped, they might reduce borrowing
costs by having a large proportion of debt in short-term floating rate debt.
Italy, for example, used to have a large portion of its national debt in
short maturity domestic bills which it regularly rolled over. The risk is
that, in occasional periods of rapidly rising short-term rates, debt service
costs would become very volatile and, in extreme cases, might force a government
to raise taxes. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Active liability management</B> <BR>
<BR>
In recent years, Italy has extended the maturity of its debt, as have other
borrowers. Sweden has lengthened the average maturity of its debt from 2.8
years in 1992-1993 to 3.6 years and has a target of 4.5 years. The use of
interest rate swaps allows borrowers to manage the average final maturity
of their debt and their refinancing risk separately from their interest
rate risk positions. <BR>
<BR>
Through active liability management, some borrowers claim to have made spectacular
savings on debt service compared with what their costs would have been if
they had adhered to their benchmark portfolios. The Swedish National Debt
Office has been actively managing the country's debt since 1986 and first
created a benchmark portfolio in 1989. Its initial aim was to minimize the
risk of currency losses and to achieve an average performance on the interest
rate side. <BR>
<BR>
The initial composition of the benchmark was straightforward. Until 1991,
the Swedish krona was managed against a basket of other currencies and the
debt office used those basket-weights for its benchmark. Then, from 1991
until autumn 1992, the currency was tied to the Ecu and the debt managers
used the constituent currencies of the Ecu. Later, when the krona floated,
the debt office included a 12% weighting for the us dollar and a 6% weighting
for the yen in its portfolio: both weightings were derived from trade flows.
As the strategy was not to take an interest rate view, liabilities were
evenly split between fixed and floating rate, with fixed rate exposure in
turn divided equally between one, three, five, seven and 10 years, and floating
rate liabilities spread between one, three and six months. <BR>
<BR>
Since 1992, the country's foreign currency debt has risen from skr55 billion
to skr420 billion. That period of soaring debt also heralded a period of
strong performance by the country's debt managers. The debt office calculates
that, since 1989, its costs on its actual portfolio have been skr10 billion
less than would have been the costs of running its benchmark portfolio.
Most of those savings, some skr9 billion came during the period of falling
interest rates in 1993. <BR>
<BR>
The portfolio managers are allowed to take positions of plus or minus 3%
away from the benchmark currency weights. The benchmark includes zero weights
for Canadian dollars, Swiss francs and Norwegian krone, allowing the debt
office to take positions against these. On the interest rate side, the debt
office uses a measure of modified duration, a percentage figure which measures
the effect on the market value of debt in the portfolio of a 100 basis point
(bp) fall or rise in interest rates along the yield curve. For Sweden, modified
duration must be between 1.5% and 2.5%. <BR>
<BR>
If modified duration is below the mid-point of 2% that shows the portfolio
managers positioning themselves to benefit from falling rates. Practically,
it might express these views through swaps where it receives fixed rates
and pays floating, or through buying interest rate futures. If they expect
rates to move up, the portfolio would be adjusted to a modified duration
above 2% by paying fixed rates on interest rate swaps, or selling interest
rate futures. <BR>
<BR>
For most of 1993, modified duration was at 1.5%, until the end of the year
when, sensing a possible turn in rates, the debt office re-adjusted to 1.75%.
It still did not move fast enough to avoid giving back some of its gains
when rates turned in February 1994. In recent months, it has stayed close
to a neutral 2%. If Sweden did want to shift its portfolio to reflect an
expectation of higher rates, it would take an enormous number of trades:
Bengt Radstam, deputy director in the international department of the Swedish
national debt office<B>, </B>suggests at least 100 interest rate swaps of
$75 million principal to reach a modified duration of 2.5%. But even though
the overall portfolio is neutral, Sweden is still taking positions. For
example in December 1995, with the overall portfolio at 2% modified duration,
Sweden was positioned heavily on expectation of interest rates rising in
America and Japan, and falling in Italy. More recent smaller positions have
been taken in expectation of falling rates in Denmark and rising rates in
Japan. <BR>
<BR>
In many ways, the liability managers' performance has mirrored that of bond
fund managers. Most of the debt offices' gains have come from positioning
in European interest rates when it seemed that economic weakness demanded
rate cuts. &quot;I am very sceptical of the chance to make money from currency
bets,&quot; says Radstam. &quot;We have seen currency movements can be very
exaggerated. The problem is that they can remain so for a very long time.
It's easier to identify value in bond markets.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>External debt managers</B> <BR>
<BR>
To test its own performance, the Swedish debt office gives out a small portion
of its liability portfolio to three firms of external asset managers. It
changes these external managers regularly. They cannot transact in financial
markets in the name of the Kingdom of Sweden, rather they send instructions
to the debt office to adjust their portfolios and the debt office executes
these trades. <BR>
<BR>
Since 1992, the in-house portfolio managers have out-performed the external
managers, which Radstam charitably ascribes to the novelty for outsiders
of managing against Sweden's custom-built benchmark. They have done better
than their peers when measured against conventional benchmarks. He would
like to increase the role of external managers to test the efficacy of different
styles. He would like to use specialist currency and interest rate managers,
and explore the results between more and less aggressive managers. <BR>
<BR>
For example, he notes a tendency among external managers to take fewer but
larger positions against the index. &quot;Say the dollar weight is 12% and
the expectation is that the dollar will strengthen. We might gradually go
to 10.5% for the dollar; outside managers will go straight to 9%.&quot;
The in-house style is to take more but smaller positions. Radstam adds:
&quot;Being less active during periods of market turbulence has also helped
us to out-perform the external managers.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Radstam is also interested in measuring returns against units of risk taken
to achieve those returns. He notes that the gyration of gains or losses
against the benchmark scored by in-house managers each month is greater
than for external managers. But dividing those results by a standard deviation
measure of risk shows a better performance by the in-house team. <BR>
<BR>
For a man responsible for saving Swedish tax payers skr10 billion in the
past five years, Radstam seems surprisingly down-beat. This is because he
is haunted by the memories of 1994 and the first half of 1995 - a period
as tough for Sweden's liability managers as for any bank trader or asset
manager - and because the further he pursues active debt management, the
more doubts and complexities arise. <BR>
<BR>
For example, the restriction on running currency exposures more than 3%
either side of the benchmark weighting may sound prudent. In fact, it is
a crude risk management device. &quot;We could be plus 3% against Deutschmarks
and minus 3% against Dutch guilders, and because those currencies are closely
linked, we might be taking very little risk. We should be able to take bigger
trades in these currencies, compared to sterling or yen where potential
market moves are greater,&quot; says Radstam. &quot;To that end we are considering
more sophisticated var [value-at-risk] systems.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
He hopes to incorporate a more accurate assessment of value-at-risk, to
measure, within a given likelihood: the risk of losing a certain amount
against the benchmark over the next 30 days. The measurement may show that
it already exceeds prudent value-at-risk limits through positions within
the present 3% currency limits. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Office technology</B> <BR>
<BR>
It's a systems problem as much as a question of portfolio theory. The Swedish
debt office has just bought front, back and middle office systems from Sungard,
to improve the accuracy of its information and simplify its transaction
processing. &quot;One or two years ago, you could not buy a system so sophisticated,&quot;
says Radstam. He is relieved that such things are now available. &quot;With
a debt well over skr400 billion, a swaps portfolio of similar size and skr175
billion of forwards, it's vital to be sure that our daily risk report is
accurate.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Radstam must also manage constraints on the capacity of the modestly-staffed
debt office to process trades. In theory, every time it raises new debt,
it has to transform it through dozens of derivatives transactions - each
bringing counterparty exposures and dealing costs - to replicate the currency
and maturity mix of the benchmark portfolio. &quot;Instead of doing interest
rate swaps in each of Deutschmarks, Dutch guilders and Belgian francs, we
might do swaps in just one of those currencies, and swaps in either lire
or pesetas, but not both.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The ntma too has been reviewing its systems. Last year, it invited proposals
from several banks to upgrade its operations. Rather than changing the composition
of the benchmark, ubs - which won the tender - will assist the ntma with
introducing new software. This is designed to allow managers to review on
screen their positions and exposures as they were at close of business the
previous night. It's a far cry from 1990, when the ntma's first task was
to gauge the state of the whole debt portfolio, which was then administered
by several disparate government departments using different accounting procedures.
Now, as well as tracking the portfolio more accurately, it will be able
to run stress tests, measuring the impact of currency and interest rate
moves on the net present value in Irish pounds of the future cash flows
of its liabilities. <BR>
<BR>
How will these up-to-date systems affect the behaviour of the traders charged
with managing Ireland's debts? <BR>
<BR>
Sullivan characterizes the agency's trading activity as a mix between some
longer-term strategic views run over several months and some shorter-term
trading positions of one month or two weeks. &quot;If the portfolio managers
have a risk exposure relative to the benchmark, which may be susceptible
to a set of us economic figures appearing on a Friday afternoon - and the
markets have been volatile - they might cut the position and re-open it
a couple of days later.&quot; In other words, it behaves like an active
fund manager but not like a bank's spot trading desk. <BR>
<BR>
A cynic might wonder about the net benefit of this trading activity. Ib
Hansen, assistant head of department in the strategy and research section
of Danmarks Nationalbank, the central bank of Denmark, which manages the
country's foreign currency debt and its reserves on a net basis, says: &quot;Bankers
love borrowers to have benchmarks. Because where there are benchmarks, there
will be trading activity against those benchmarks which brings a flow of
business to the banks. Banks are less worried about whether or not these
are the right benchmarks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
If a country's debt managers define the risk exposures they are taking simply
as the degree of variance between the real portfolio and the benchmark,
are they taking an accurate measure of risk? One banker comments: &quot;The
danger is that people might think that once the benchmark is set, the job
is done, when it's not: liability management is much more dynamic than that.&quot;
Over time the benchmark may drift towards irrelevance. The same banker recalls,
last year, taking apart a corporate client's foreign exchange risk management
model and being amazed to find it built on assumptions that had gone unchanged
since 1982. <BR>
<BR>
Hansen admits that a drawback of benchmarks is the assumptions on which
they depend. He adds: &quot;At least using a benchmark forces you to confront
the assumptions that you may already be making.&quot; Denmark is working
with several commercial banks on running Monte Carlo simulations to test
the effect on its debt service costs, of various maturity structures. <BR>
<BR>
Sullivan acknowledges that there is no single simple answer to the question
of how to construct the benchmark portfolio in the first place. Ireland's
was fully established in 1991 and changed again in 1993. It has been reviewed
again this year. The most significant changes were introduced in 1993, when
the currency mix was further diversified with a greater weight given to
sterling and French francs, while previous core positions in Deutschmarks
and Swiss francs were reduced. More recently the duration of the portfolio
has been lengthened. <BR>
<BR>
A useful starting point in compiling a benchmark for foreign currency debt
is the country's trade flows with other countries. Ireland does not enjoy
strong trade links with Japan; therefore, it does not run a large percentage
of yen liabilities. But debt exposure should not necessarily track summary
trade flows exactly. &quot;Economic linkages are more complex and subtle
than that,&quot; says Sullivan. For example, the Irish economy has both
traditional labour-intensive agribusinesses, and newer hi-tech electronics,
chemicals and pharmaceuticals sectors. The import and export patterns of
the two groups have very different sensitivities to the exchange rate between
the Irish pound and sterling. <BR>
<BR>
It is even harder to create a relevant benchmark for interest rate risk.
In 1992, the New Zealand debt management office retained three American
academics to advise it on how to value its assets - land, buildings, roads,
schools, hospitals as well as corporatized state-owned companies which could
be turned into cash through privatization sales - in an attempt to match
the duration of its liabilities to these assets. The project produced no
reliable numbers, though it did confirm the view that foreign currency debt
should be reduced, and identified the possible role of index-linked debt.
<BR>
<BR>
Even within its foreign currency liability portfolio, the New Zealand debt
managers found mean variation analysis of little help in mapping interest
rate exposure. As a fall-back, within each currency sector, it sought to
match its exposure to the relevant government bond market. It used the interest
rate structure of the us treasury bond market, as modelled by the Salomon
Brothers bond index, as a model for its dollar debt and added a weighting
for a floating rate exposure in line with the relative size of the us t-bill
market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Reducing foreign debt</B> <BR>
<BR>
From December 1994, the government's aim has been to reduce net foreign
currency debt to zero - a goal it will reach during the fiscal year beginning
July 1 1996. The country is using its budget surplus to fund a programme
of calling and running off all foreign debt. It is ignoring the possibility
that its strong budgetary performance will produce an appreciating New Zealand
dollar, making foreign currency debt cheap to service. Because of the high
proportion of commodities in the country's exports, its terms of trade have
been volatile over the years. Its fear is that the currency markets might
quickly turn against the New Zealand dollar. <BR>
<BR>
As they move towards a total reliance on domestic debt, New Zealand's debt
managers will leave behind the world of benchmark liability portfolios.
Anderson says: &quot;The use of a benchmark against which government debt
managers may vary the actual portfolio becomes less tenable because of the
government's position as the largest borrower in the domestic market and
issuer of the risk-free asset against which all others are priced. In a
sense, whatever the government issues is the benchmark: it becomes the index
against which others are measured.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
That does not mean that domestic currency debt managers have no way to define
their task. It just makes the absolute benefits of what they do hard to
gauge. According to the New Zealand debt management office, the best way
to reduce costs is to increase liquidity, rather than try to bet on movements
in the yield curve. All domestic borrowing is now channelled into benchmark
issues, created and maintained through subsequent issues of fungible bonds.
<BR>
<BR>
When the debt office began operations in 1988, the longest domestic bond
was of five-year maturity. It has since worked to create seven- and 10-year
benchmarks. The main question it faces is establishing the right mix between
fixed, floating and index-linked debt. Academics argue over the usefulness
of index-linked debt. The instinct of the New Zealand officials is to lean
towards fixed-rate debt. To provide diversification, 25% of domestic debt
is in issues of three-, six- and 12-month t-bills which are rolled over
regularly. There is also the intention to use more index-linked debt, which
pays a higher coupon as inflation rises. <BR>
<BR>
Other sovereigns which fund mainly in domestic markets have made similar
decisions. The uk has steadily developed benchmark gilt-edged bonds in recent
years. Today, 20 different gilts have outstandings of &#163;5 billion or
more, compared to just three at the start of the 1990s. The Bank of England
has introduced other reforms to enhance the liquidity and transparency of
its domestic bond market, including a quarterly calendar giving notice of
auctions of new bonds and an open repo market. It is about to allow gilts
to be stripped into separate series of principal and interest payments.
The theory is that this will allow pension funds and other investors to
create assets which will exactly match their liabilities. Strips should
also attract more active bond traders. <BR>
<BR>
Like New Zealand, it too issues index-linked debt. Tucker explains how this
provides a saving. &quot;If investors expect inflation to run at a certain
rate, they will build that into the yield required on conventional government
debt. But investors cannot be sure that their own view on inflation will
prove accurate so they build an additional premium into nominal bond yields
to compensate for that uncertainty. Index-linked bonds should save the issuer
from paying that premium.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Index-linked bonds may remove any opportunity for a government's debt managers
to reap windfall gains from a period of high inflation, reducing the value
of its fixed-rate debt. But they may also help to reduce yields on conventional
fixed-rate bonds because investors can see that an incentive to allow inflation
has been removed. That, at least, is the theory. Tucker keeps in mind a
simpler tenet: &quot;The reforms we have been making should help us to save
costs. That is the objective. But of, course, the best way to save borrowing
costs is to run a prudent monetary policy.&quot; <bR><BR><BR>
<H3><A NAME="china"></A>Borrowing from the state </H3>
<H4>There are signs that the Chinese government's tight control over overseas
borrowing may relax now that the economic situation is improving. But as
long as there is concern about the level of foreign debt and substantial
foreign exchange reserves to draw on, China is unlikely to be a frequent
issuer in the international capital markets - at least in the short term.
By Sophie R&ouml;ell </H4>
There has been far from a deluge of Chinese borrowing in the international
capital markets. Last year there were only five bond issues, which raised
less than $1.4 billion. <BR>
<BR>
This year is hardly holding out any more promise for investment banks hungry
for business in a market they had high hopes for only a few years ago. So
far, there have been four issues, raising a total of just under $900 million.
But investment bankers in Beijing say the government has indicated that
total issuance this year is unlikely to exceed last year's. <BR>
<BR>
Not surprisingly, bankers argue that China needs to borrow more. &quot;Clearly
China, in the international capital markets, is raising nowhere near as
much money as they need to raise,&quot; says Theodore Liu at Morgan Stanley.
<BR>
<BR>
What bankers see is the country's huge capital requirements over the next
decade. At an investor education conference last year, Morgan Stanley cited
a World Bank study which projects that China by 2000 needs to spend $200
billion on infrastructure development alone in order to meet its economic
growth objectives. <BR>
<BR>
What the Chinese government sees, on the other hand, is the potentially
adverse effects of overseas borrowing on macro-management of the economy.
Although the austerity programme of the past two years has brought inflation
down to manageable levels - from a high of 21.7% in 1994 to 14.8% in 1995
- the authorities are still cautious when it comes to any talk of loosening
credit. <BR>
<BR>
China's external debt obligations - $106.5 billion by the end of 1995 -
have also raised some concerns among the large number of Chinese officials
wary of overdependence on foreign capital. Their key argument appears to
be that with foreign exchange reserves of $80.83 billion as at the end of
March there is little reason for Chinese borrowers to go overseas to borrow
money. <BR>
<BR>
Traditionally, China has limited capital-market accesss to 10 &quot;window&quot;
borrowers. These financial institutions - some owned by the central government,
some owned by local governments - use their name and reputation to achieve
attractive terms and then lend on to individual corporates or projects.
<BR>
<BR>
In practice, this has meant that the bulk of borrowing has been by state-owned
institutions - such as Bank of China and China International Trust and Investment
Corporation (Citic) - which, until recently, enjoyed sovereign-level ratings.
<BR>
<BR>
Now, according to market participants, the elite borrowing institutions
of China will be encouraged to borrow from the country's foreign currency
reserves. &quot;The policy of the Chinese government is not to let the internationally
experienced banks tap the international capital markets, but to let them
tap the foreign currency reserves of the country,&quot; says Michael m Reichel,
vice-president and chief representative at Commerzbank in Beijing. <BR>
<BR>
It is a decision in which the borrowers themselves have had little say.
According to one banker: &quot;Not everybody is happy with the Chinese government's
decision. Sometimes a Chinese bank sees an opportunity it would like to
seize, but it cannot get approval from the authorities, so it misses out.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Maintaining a presence</B> <BR>
<BR>
The other fear among borrowers is that infrequent appearances in the market
will lead international investors to become less receptive to Chinese issuers.
Particularly in the Euromarkets, but to some extent also in the yankee market,
there is unfamiliarity with Chinese borrowers. &quot;Because of their reasonably
infrequent tapping of the markets, there is a good amount of work to be
done by the intermediaries and the major investment banks to tell the China
story,&quot; says Chris Van Niekerk at sbc Warburg. <BR>
<BR>
This is hardly surprising. Of last year's five bond issues, four were in
the samurai market. Chinese borrowers have favoured the Japanese market
which has, typically, provided them with the best spreads. Japanese bankers
say this is because Japanese investors are generally less credit-sensitive
and so samurai issuance is attractive to borrowers ranked below top-notch
investment grade. However, European and American investment bankers say
the greater familiarity with China on the part of Japanese investors - who
have seen more of a stream of Chinese issues - has also played a role. <BR>
<BR>
Inflexibility on borrowing terms has been another outcome of this overall
government supervision. The State Administration for Exchange Control (saec),
China's foreign exchange watchdog and the overall coordinator of overseas
borrowing, apparently has very set ideas of how an issue should be priced.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;It is not officially stated, but we think that the saec has a kind
of matrix,&quot; says a foreign banker in Beijing. &quot;They have classified
all Chinese prospective borrowers into certain groups: a group, b group,
c group and, possibly, a d group. And then they attribute to each group
a certain margin over Libor.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
China's main issuers do not exactly have a reputation for generous pricing
- something which has not always gone down well with investors who feel
that, with Chinese issues, there is always more room for a downside than
an upside. The key problem is that while China is investment-grade-rated,
and understandably insists on issuing at investment-grade spreads, it does
suffer what one banker refers to as &quot;vulnerability to wobbles in the
general emerging market sector&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
There are indications, however, that the saec is becoming more flexible
on pricing. According to a Japanese investment banker in Beijing, today
there is a much greater concern on the part of the Chinese authorities that
issues sell and perform well in the secondary market. <BR>
<BR>
Apparently, there is also greater flexibility regarding who - beyond the
traditional window borrowers - should be allowed to borrow. However, given
China's concern for a good image and cheap borrowing in the international
markets, the bulk of issuance will continue to be dominated by major sovereign
or state-owned entities. <BR>
<BR>
The biggest issuer for the foreseeable future is likely to be the ministry
of finance, issuing on behalf of the<B> People's Republic of China (PRC)</B>.
Rated a3 by Moody's and bbb by Standard &amp; Poor's, China's sovereign
debt is solid investment grade. If China's prudent borrowing strategy has
made it less prominent in the markets than bankers would like, it has given
the country an extremely good track record in terms of its ability to repay
in a timely fashion. As an example, China's external debt to exports ratio
was 76% in 1994, well below the peer mean of 124.5%. <BR>
<BR>
This has worked in favour of the sovereign. Although there are fears about
the political outlook and the pace of economic reform - as well as questions
about where the rising tide of nationalism in the country could lead - the
ministry of finance successfully came to the market in January with a $100
million, 100-year-maturity yankee. <BR>
<BR>
It was a successful attempt to take advantage of a favourable borrowing
opportunity. &quot;The market was good at the beginning of <BR>
the year,&quot; says Rowena Chu, managing <BR>
director at jp Morgan, which along with Merrill Lynch lead-managed the issue.
&quot;And also there was uncertainty in the us that us issuers would no
longer be able to issue 100 years because the Clinton administration did
mention that any maturity longer than 40 years may be deemed as equity,
and as a result, could not be tax-deductible - so that was another factor
that increased the appetite of investors for foreign issues.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Although, in general, the ministry of finance's approach to borrowing is
far from opportunistic, it has indicated a strong commitment to building
up a benchmark for Chinese issuers. <BR>
<BR>
The 100-year yankee was accompanied by a $300 million seven-year yankee
issue: together they were the ministry of finance's first foray into the
yankee market. Traditionally, the prc has raised funds in the Asian - particularly
the samurai - markets. &quot;Picking the yankee was very much because the
prc had never entered the yankee market as a sovereign,&quot; says Chu.
<BR>
<BR>
It was also an attempt to set up a seven-year benchmark in the dollar market.
&quot;None of the Chinese borrowers have really done a seven-year in the
yankee market before,&quot; says Chu. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Establishing a reputation</B> <BR>
<BR>
It will not be easy to build up a yield curve for Chinese issuance. Aside
from a samurai issue in 1995, the last time the prc was in the markets was
two years ago, in February 1994, when Merrill Lynch led a $1 billion, <BR>
10-year global. <BR>
<BR>
Nevertheless, the ministry of finance is aware of the difficulty and has
stepped up its bid to enhance China's prominence as a borrower. &quot;They
would like to be a very sought-after issuer,&quot; says jp Morgan's Chu.
&quot;So what they are very willing to do is investor education. They attach
great importance to the roadshow and they take the task of educating international
investors about China very seriously as part of the role of the sovereign.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
There has also been flexibility on pricing to ensure issues perform well.
Merrill's 10-year global two years ago was issued at a spread of 85 basis
points over us treasuries, but the most recent seven-year yankee was priced
at 113bp. &quot;The ministry of finance wants to issue bonds on terms that
will be accepted in the market,&quot; says a Japanese banker. &quot;They
push hard, but the terms still tend to be acceptable, and they're very much
concerned about their reputation after the issue.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Japanese bankers have reason to be satisfied with the ministry of finance's
terms. Of last year's four samurai issues, the ministry of finance's, led
by Nomura, was the only one that sold well. <BR>
<BR>
Japanese banks have had less success with the most recent issue for <B>Citic</B>.<B>
</B>Set up by the government in 1979, at the beginning of China's open-door
policy, as a conduit for foreign investment into China, Citic's main activity
is providing equity financing, and loans for joint ventures and other projects
in China. <BR>
<BR>
Because of its specifically outward-looking mandate, Citic has played a
pioneering role in Chinese participation in the international capital markets.
Not only was it the first Chinese borrower to issue overseas but, in 1993,
it again led the way into a new market, becoming the first Chinese borrower
to issue a yankee. <BR>
<BR>
Last month, sbc Warburg signed a Eurocommercial paper programme for Citic,
&quot;really the first major Eurocommercial paper programme for a major
Chinese entity,&quot; says sbc Warburg's Van Niekerk, and &quot;a further
sign of the opening up of China's attitude to the capital markets&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
Chinese issuers generally are renowned for their aggressive pricing but
Citic is considered more aggressive than most, at least of the major borrowers.
One Beijing-based investment banker compares Citic's borrowing strategy
to that of the European Investment Bank: &quot;very professional, but at
the same time very aggressive&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Citic officials say they are keen to establish &quot;a long-term relationship
with investors&quot;, where all three parties to a deal - investors, arrangers
and borrowers - &quot;feel comfortable&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
They also say that Citic's debt/asset ratio improved last year, paving the
way for further borrowing. Officials say Citic will be in the markets again
this year, probably with a bond issue in the region of $200 million to $300
million. And it is considering launching a retail-targeted samurai issue.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Bank of China</B>, traditionally the government's designated foreign
exchange bank and a dominant issuer in the past, has not appeared on the
market since June 1994. This absence can largely be explained by the austerity
programme; although last year's decision by Moody's to downgrade both Bank
of China and Citic forced the bank to abandon a hk$5 billion (us$645 million)
floating-rate cd. <BR>
<BR>
As with Citic, Bank of China's biggest asset is its familiarity in the international
markets. Although the bulk of its borrowing has been in the samurai and
Asian markets, it has made an effort to appear in all major markets. In
1994 there was both a $500 million yankee and a dm300 million ($196 million)
deal led by Commerzbank. However, bankers say that it will continue to be
a significant borrower. <BR>
<BR>
As financial reform progresses in China, one key question will be how a
new generation of sovereign-level borrowers - three policy banks set up
by the central government in 1994 to take over policy lending from the state
banks - will perform. <BR>
<BR>
They are unlikely to undermine Bank of China or Citic's dominance in the
short term. As new institutions, it will be quite some time before they
have the capacity to take over all policy lending from the older banks.
And their reception in the international markets will be affected by the
fact that they are new names and that policy lending in China does not exactly
have a reputation for profitability. <BR>
<BR>
As Moody's points out, there is a possibility that in setting up an &quot;entity
exclusively concerned with policy lending, the government has created an
institution which has even graver asset-quality problems than those it is
replacing&quot;. However, policy banks' obligations will be considered sovereign
obligations. <BR>
<BR>
Of the three, the first institution to look for in the markets is the <B>State
Development Bank</B> <B>(SDB)</B>, set up in 1994, and charged with the
task of financing infrastructure and key industrial projects on behalf of
the government. Moody's gave it an a3 rating - the same as the sovereign
- earlier this year, reflecting the &quot;close link between the bank and
the Chinese government, in particular, due to its function as an instrument
of state policy and economic development&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
As an indication of the responsibilities the bank will be shouldering on
behalf of the government, it is the sdb that has been charged with arranging
the financing for the $30 billion Three Gorges dam project on the Yangtze
river. <BR>
<BR>
Obviously not all of the bank's funds will be raised in the international
markets: funds raised in the domestic or Han bond market are likely to dominate,
as well as bilateral or multilateral funding. <BR>
<BR>
However, after a few syndicated loans, the bank has been making its first
tentative steps into the international capital markets - starting with a
&#165;30 billion ($286 million) samurai earlier this year, led by Nomura
and ibj. As one Beijing banker points out: &quot;They're still testing the
waters a bit to see how they are being received. They have not yet showed
up as a big, regular, serious borrower.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Japanese bankers say sdb has indicated its commitment to building up a name
and reputation in the markets, but admit its first foray into the samurai
market was not a great success, particularly when first launched. According
to one banker close to the deal: &quot;The pricing on the deal was a little
tight - and the maturity of 10 years also a little tough, particularly at
the time of the launch. Market sentiment generally was not good in Japan
- because of the <I>jusen</I> [housing loan companies] problem, and the
institutional investors and banks were worried about what was going to happen.
Then missiles were fired in the Taiwan Strait, so investors for the first
time realized what kinds of risk might be involved. Then the market in general
improved, maybe 20bp, so that was very fortunate.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Less fortunate was its name. With rumours circulating in Japan that the
country's own development bank might be liquidated, the State Development
Bank was not exactly a &quot;super name&quot;, according to one Japanese
banker. <BR>
<BR>
Given the reputation of Japan's Jeximbank, the<B> Export-Import Bank of
China</B> - another of China's new policy banks - may have an advantage
on this front. <BR>
<BR>
It is currently going through the rating process, although so far it has
only been rated in Japan - receiving a sovereign level (aa minus) from the
Japan Bond Research Institute. It's rumoured it will be in the market later
this year - probably with a samurai. <BR>
<BR>
However, as a new institution, it will take some time to build up a capacity
equal to that of Citic and Bank of China or some of the older borrowers.
So far, most of its borrowing has been bilateral. <BR>
<BR>
The other policy bank, the <B>Agricultural Development Bank of China</B>,
is even further behind. Although developing agricultural production is a
key government priority, it is not yet clear how much of the responsibility
for this will be shouldered by the Agricultural Development Bank. In Beijing,
there is talk that the <B>Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)</B>, the traditional
state agriculture bank, now in the process of being commercialized, will
have to retain its policy functions, and the two banks may even be merged
into one. abc has already appeared in the markets with a &#165;15 billion
samurai issue last year. <BR>
<BR>
How prominent the policy banks will be in the international markets remains
to be seen. The same applies to the other major state-owned banks now being
commercialized. Most have an extensive branch presence across China, and
they dominate the banking sector as a whole. <BR>
<BR>
The<B> People's Construction Bank of China</B> has issued in the past and
has traditionally played a major role in infrastructure financing. It is
now making a concerted effort to turn itself from a government department
into a real bank, recently even adopting a new name, <B>China Construction
Bank</B>, to cut links with the past and develop a new image. Last year
it took advantage of favourable market conditions to raise hk$1.2 billion
in the dragon market. <BR>
<BR>
Among most state-owned banks, there has been a trend towards opening branches
abroad and moving away from a focus on domestic banking business to more
foreign exchange and internationally oriented transactions. <BR>
<BR>
This may mean a broader range of issuers in future, in addition to the provincial
level borrowers such as <B>Guangdong International Trust and Investment
Corporation (Gitic)</B> and other regional itics which are continuing their
appearances in the international markets.<B> Fujian ITIC</B> is rumoured
to be preparing for an issue later in the year. <BR>
<BR>
For fund managers specializing in Asia or emerging markets, the issuance
beyond major state-owned entities has been disappointing. As Michael Roche,
a director at hsbc Asset Management, comments: &quot;There's a lack of non-state
debt available, and the type of investments fixed-income investors can make
have not performed very well.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
How far the saec will allow more expensive borrowing by smaller entities
and structured transactions remains to be seen. Bankers do say they have
been getting some promising signals. For the time being, however, the overriding
question remains whether even the major Chinese entities will be allowed
to borrow very much. <BR>
<BR>
With inflation coming down and the macroeconomic environment improving,
there is hope that, in the near future, Chinese entities will issue more
frequently in the international markets. &quot;There are indications that
the whole period of strict control over the economy is winding up a bit,&quot;
says Morgan Stanley's Liu. <BR>
<BR>
Still, don't expect a flood of Chinese issues in the markets this year.
<bR><BR><BR>
<H4><A NAME="round-table"></A>ROUND TABLE </H4>
<H2>The borrowers talk back <BR>
</H2>
<H4>Some banks' sales forces are lazy: they push products at borrowers without
finding out what they want, then they fail to sell a credit properly. There
are banks which present clients with phoney league tables, putting themselves
in top position; and banks which misprice deals to win business, only to
have the spread widen out after launch. These are some of the complaints
to emerge when a group of high-profile borrowers gets round a table. <I>Euromoney
</I>editor Garry Evans and staff writer Steven Irvine attempt to moderate
</H4>
<B>Is it as competitive out there among the banks as it used to be?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Mark Cutis, EBRD </B>The competition hasn't lessened. But we try to avoid
transactions that are mispriced because someone is buying a deal. We have
two criteria. The first criterion is that the transaction must be a success,<B>
</B>because if it's not guys like you [the press] will crucify us and, more
importantly, our investors will never forget. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Peter Yngwe, SEK </B>But how do you value success? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> If the deal is well-sold and well-distributed. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Alex Braun, Abbey National</B> At the fixed price re-offer? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Essentially, yes. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>The second criterion of a successful deal is that it meets
our targets. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>The trouble is the fixed price re-offer system has effectively
broken down &shyp; just look at the number of bond issues that widen out
to less fees. There are two ways to play this game: you can throw an issue
into the market and let it widen out. All the managers sell their bonds
into the bid and you let the lead managers look after the issue for you.
Or you can try and issue the paper at a realistic re-offer price and get
the fees back via the swap. We prefer the second route, simply because I
don't want my bonds to widen out by five or six basis points on day one.
If that happens, we will not do another deal with that investment bank.
But you see the problem with that particular strategy is that the only ones
who make any money are the co-managers because they get the real fees. If
you had read in 1987 or 1988 that a bond had gone to less full fees, that
was OK. That was not a problem. In the early 1990s the banks introduced
the fixed-price re-offer and if it doesn't trade at the fixed-price re-offer
it's a problem. But, in reality, the fixed-price re-offer doesn't work because
there's so much competition among banks to do deals. No matter what anybody
says, league tables do count. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> Absolutely.<B> <BR>
<BR>
Braun </B>Banks also have a high fixed overhead and they need to generate
business and although they might not make any money in the initial distribution
of the deal, they actually make money trading it and in the secondary business
it might generate. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you believe the banks' own versions of the league tables?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Henk van Hemert, BNG </B>We don't believe in league tables where a bank
comes first or second. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> So you don't believe in Merrill and Morgan Stanley? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> That's nothing to do with it. It's just a matter of grouping
and taking a slightly twisted criterion to build your league table, and
then anyone can be first or second. I cannot remember the last time a potential
lead manager came in and showed us a league table where they were number
10. Never. That never happens. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What would you strip out of the league tables to make them more useful?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> I'm not interested in league tables. Anyone with a decent
name has a chance to lead manage an issue for us, but if he doesn't perform
there will never be a second chance. That is our approach. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Does it worry any of you that the banks don't seem to make any money
out of the primary market?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> They must make money out it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> They always say they don't make money. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>It's absolutely impossible. <BR>
<BR>
<B>But isn't it a loss-leader for other areas?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>Exactly. You have arbitrage deals and strategic deals. The
banks will earn their fees on the strategic deals. What the investment banks
will probably do is look at the relationship as a whole &shyp; how much
money are they making from X and Y &shyp; to see what their overall profitability
is. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>They earn it on poor issuers like us and they throw it away
on the supranationals. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> They certainly don't throw it away on us. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What makes a successful deal?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I think it's pretty simple. If you launch a deal at 21bp over
treasuries and it goes to 24, then that was not a successful deal and it
was mispriced. You want a deal that holds its spread. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> I was in New York &shyp; by coincidence &shyp; as the Orange
County thing happened and all spreads widened out tremendously. If we have
an issue in the market at that moment, it cannot be helped. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> We did two deals this year that I would regard as very successful.
One was a $300 million retail-targeted deal at the beginning of the year.
Abbey National is not a natural retail name but we have tried to develop
that over the last few years and that deal now trades through treasuries,
so it's well placed. The other was a 10-year Ffr3 billion deal. There we
spent a huge amount of time marketing our name in France and did a very
successful institutional deal. We couldn't afford to let the thing widen
out. It was issued at 18 over the OAT [French treasury bond] and that's
where it's now. That's $600 million of 10-year money at an attractive rate.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> That's what I call a successful deal. I would be more concerned
if the spread narrowed 10bp, than I would be than if it went out 10bp &shyp;
because I am paying up 10bp. If it immediately widens out 10bp that's the
lead manager's problem. He came to me and said &quot;I believe it can be
sold at T-plus whatever and I am ready to risk my own equity, my capital
on this.&quot; &quot;Fine,&quot; I say, &quot;you go ahead: you choose the
management group. And if he chooses a management group that immediately
sells it back to him &shyp; well, those managers will immediately make a
profit. It surprises me that he chooses the same co-managers and allows
them to make this profit. But that's the bank's problem. I would be more
angry with him &shyp; and with myself &shyp; if the transaction tightened
10bp in spread. <BR>
<BR>
<B>So you would always take the most aggressive bid?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> It depends how important the transaction is. If it's a strategic
deal to establish yourself in new markets then, of course, it's important
that investors don't immediately lose money. But, otherwise, I don't think
that I am the one who should tell investors what to do. They buy of their
own judgement. I'm not to blame if they buy and the spread goes out. It's
a matter for themselves and for the lead managers. If it goes out too wide,
it's great value and I buy it back. I am an investor, too. So there is a
stop &shyp; where I go in. If it tightens, then of course the investor's
done a great deal; he made the right judgement &shyp; fine for him. I tell
myself, &quot;Well, I could have done this at a tighter spread.&quot; If
I go into an important market and if the spread stays at 18 &shyp; that's
a good deal. The lead manager was just right. I didn't pay up. The investor
got what he wanted. So everyone's happy. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>But didn't Alex [Braun] know when it was 18 that he was roughly
in the right ball park? I mean you might have thought it should have been
19 or 17. Or maybe you established that as a new level through the price
discovery process? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> Ah &shyp; price discovery. I don't believe in price discovery.
If you look at some of the deals that have come into the market over the
last year with price discovery, what happens is your existing bonds widen
out during the period of price discovery. So you end up paying up and then
the whole thing comes back to an equilibrium. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Investors play games?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>We had an existing Ffr5 billion deal in the marketplace. You
don't have to be a rocket scientist to work out where this deal has to come.
[laughter] <BR>
<BR>
<B>Does that mean you don't need banks, if you can price the bonds yourself?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> Well, no. You need them to distribute the securities. At the
end of the day, it was fairly obvious where this deal needed to be priced.
But if I had announced the fact a month beforehand &shyp; that I was going
to do a new three-year deal, that thing would have been 20, 21 or 22. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Some borrowers have tried to make lead managers commit to a certain spread.
Didn't the EBRD do that?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>No. We asked for a commitment that it wouldn't widen out. <BR>
<BR>
<B>So it could tighten, but it couldn't widen out?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Absolutely. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>You managed to get the lead manager to agree to that? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Absolutely. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> That's great. Congratulations. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> We tell our lead managers during the first week, &quot;Okay,
you don't have to pay out the co-managers in your issue &shyp; just let
it widen out a little bit and take care of it. Two weeks after the launch
make sure everything is back at the right spread again.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>The lead manager is committing the capital and no-one else.
So you put a lot of trust in that lead manager. I tell everyone internally,
we're not here to judge if the lead manager is right or wrong. Even if someone
tells rubbish stories or whatever, it's very hard for me to say &quot;you're
wrong&quot;. Is the person who says we should issue at T+30 and the deal
tightens to 5bp, more right than the person who tells me T+15 and it widens
5bp? Who is more right? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>When it's T+30 to T+15, if you issue at T+15 and it widens
to T+22, that was incorrect. That was not the correct spread. But in another
sense it was the correct spread because someone bid for it at T+15. Your
judgement call is, &quot;Do you want to issue bonds at T+15 and have them
widen to T+22?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>The question is how many of those can you actually do? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Exactly. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gabriele M&uuml;ller, Depfa </B>That's right.<B> </B>We look for spread
stability in the first days and weeks after launch. That's very important
to us because we're a big, permanent issuer, so we cannot afford to have
non-performing deals. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> You forget that the lead manager is the investor himself. He
has to see it as value at the issue level because he is buying it from you.
He's a fool if he buys it there and he doesn't believe in that price. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Isn't it a question of league tables? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> Who am I to sit here and judge that he sees value at a certain
spread because of league tables? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> Nevertheless, he's hurting SEK if a string of issues go the
same way. He's hurting SEK, not himself. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> He brings it at 15, he owns it at 21. If every single issue
you do comes at 15 and goes out to 21, the market &shyp; over time &shyp;
well, it knows. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>So what you're saying is we will not be able to do it at 15
later on. But we're able to do it at 15 all the time. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Then you're doing the right thing. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> Absolutely. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>I think the market has to realize the whole fixed-price re-offer
system doesn't work. We cannot expect investors and issuers to keep using
this system, because it's being blatantly abused at the moment. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>I agree. I don't think it's a good system. I don't think it's
working. But that is something for the lead managers to take care of. <BR>
<BR>
<B>How should the system be changed, and is it the lead managers or yourselves
who should change it? <BR>
<BR>
Hemert </B>It's our concern as issuers, but not directly our job [to change
it]. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> I heard one suggestion that some kind of tracking system could
be used, where you have numbers on the bonds and you know exactly which
bonds come back. In this way you know which co-managers are selling them
back. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> That's a bit Orwellian. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>I don't believe in it either, but it's one of a number of suggestions.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>How much disclosure do you all require from your bookrunners as to where
they place bonds? Has anyone got to the stage of the World Bank where you
get the names of the end investors?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I think that's asking too much. <BR>
<BR>
<B>The World Bank gets it, though.</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Well, OK, that's fine, but they have a different-sized programme
and different objectives. I just have a difficult time asking for so much
information. I subscribe to the view that at the end of the day the lead
managers are responsible and they should make the decision. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Does all this mean that if you don't want your bonds to widen but you
still want very competi-<BR>
tive pricing you have to crucify the bank on the swap?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Not us. We won't issue if that's the case. We're fortunate:
we have enough cash and liquidity so that we don't have to issue for three
years. If we think there's something wrong, where people need to go too
far, then we'll just stay out of the market. Now if the world suddenly changes
&shyp; and I think the world is changing and arbitrage opportunities are
rapidly diminishing &shyp; then we will have to review what we're doing.
But for the time being it's not the case. There has always been another
set of investors who have had an appetite for our bonds. Not only for our
bonds, but for everyone's bonds. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you have a programme of going and seeing the top investors?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>We're different. We prefer name give-up. A key thing for us
is marketing, and talking to investors and making sure we target them appropriately.
In some markets, the US for example, you can actually find out who owns
the bonds anyway as the bonds are targeted and have to be registered according
to SEC regulations. If you look back at the first yankee we did, we had
50 investors and then targeted the investor base. The number of investors
went from 50 in the first one to 150 in the second. It's a costly process.
But, as you know, we borrow so much that we feel it's worth it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>We like to know who our investors are; but we don't make that
a rule. Obviously, we'd like to know, because you want to go and see them
&shyp; particularly in Japan. But you actually make that a condition? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>We could never make it a rule.<B> <BR>
<BR>
Cutis </B>Do your investors know that their names are being given up? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>I think that the major institutions know. It's up to a salesman
to disclose whether he's happy. There are some cases where we don't get
the names because the investor has decided that he doesn't want his name
disclosed. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> We'll have to stop buying you then because we don't want our
name disclosed. This is our main investment criterion. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> But you're an asset-swapper anyway! [laughter] <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> Not necessarily. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> Swiss banks have legal problems disclosing investors' names.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>If the investor doesn't want to have his name known, we have
to abide by that. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>Of course, we want to know, but we never demand it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>There must be a few arguments between the origination officer and the
salesforce?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> It gives the investment bank an incentive. Perhaps you will
do your next deal with another bank? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> If the investor doesn't want to give up the name, we have to
take it as understood. On the whole we find most people don't mind. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you worry about the liquidity of your bonds?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>We find you get liquidity on big globals. But let's say that
you do a short-dated $150 million there will be much less liquidity, and
if large blocks of it ever appear then it will tend to be bought by asset
swappers or the sort of people who are going to buy and hold to maturity.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>M&uuml;ller </B>We were very keen to ensure the liquidity of our jumbo
Pfandbrief. So we enforced a market-making commitment. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Are you happy about how the banks sell your bonds?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>From what we've said here, it sounds as though all our issues
are so aggressive and trade out. That's not the case. A lot of sales people
at banks don't really know the story. For example, our rating is identical
to the Kingdom of Sweden's. The Kingdom of Sweden's rating is AA+ by Standard
&amp; Poor's and AA3 by Moody's, and the sovereign ceiling means we have
the same rating. However, our balance sheet is a triple-A type of balance
sheet. I can say that because when we had a triple-A we did not have financial
numbers as good as we have today. So when we go out in the market and price
our bonds and they are priced as a double-A, investors are actually buying
a triple-A type of balance sheet. But not everyone knows this. That is why
it's very important for us to be priced at what we believe is the right
level. When you go out and price a public deal, the lead managers want to
price it at the cheapest level so it can be easily sold. But we're like
a triple-A, so we believe that we should be priced in that category. You
need intermediaries to help out and be able to sell the right story. And
if the banks tell the wrong story, then you're lost. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Why do some of the sales people at banks not understand your credit story?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
Because they are lazy. Everyone is lazy. They look at the ratings. They
sell it as a double-A. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I take your point. Often leads want to issue it up here [raises
hand] just to make it easy, and in fact you should be down here [lowers
hand]. But you've got to make sure that you don't issue too much in this
range and let it go back up . <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> That range is for double-A, but since we're a triple A we should
be in that [lower] category . <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>But you should stay out of the market for a while to restore
the equilibrium, because you can make the point that your balance sheet
merits triple-A. Tell your credit story. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>That is exactly what we're doing. How many public issues do
we do? Not very many. How many times do you see us? Not very many. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> Your problem can be solved by an inner circle of professionals.
That circle tells the story that you're really a triple-A. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is it likely that in a few years' time you're going to be doing your
own deals, perhaps in the MTN market?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We're already doing our own deals. With super-large investors,
you can do private placements directly with them. They approach you. We
all know who they are. But we're not here to distribute bonds. We're too
small for that. That is not our business. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> If you look at a salesman who covers an institutional investor,
he will be covering that person on gilts, treasuries and a large number
of products and he knows what the investor wants. Somebody like Abbey National
is not going to ring up an investor and say, &quot;Would you like to buy
a medium-term note?&quot; It won't happen, because we don't understand that
individual. Our job is to explain the credit story and make sure people
are happy with the name. What the investor is really interested in is the
rating and the liquidity of the paper. Then if he wants to change his view
on anything, he can get out of it. So from an issuer's point of view we
need to make sure that (a) he's got the lines in place and (b) that there
is sufficient demand for the paper and that if he want's to get out, he
can sell it. That's our job. The salesman's job is not to sell our name
&shyp; I think that is up to the issuer. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>It's more mixed than that. Being a relatively new issuer,
we soon realized that it's not just the issuer's responsibility. Sales forces
in the respective banks need to be briefed, but this is not automatically
the case. They might hear from the originator, &quot;OK, I have a new issuer
in Holland &shyp; called BNG.&quot; He will rightly reply, &quot;Never heard
of it.&quot; So he will not sell it to his investor. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you think sales people are lazy?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>Everyone is lazy! It's not only sales people. We all take short
cuts. [All laugh] <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you feel you get good service from your banks?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Excuse me, I have to make a phone call. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you find they've done their homework when they come to see you?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> I think some are working harder than others. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is it important to spread your favours around a bit?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> It's no problem to have a wide range of lead managers. The
only problem is to curb it. If you want to curb the number of potential
lead managers, you must be rude and say, &quot;You're not welcome anymore.
Please don't come along.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>In order to achieve the very best cost of funding all the time,
you need to work with the brightest people in the world who come up with
different ideas. They have different pros and cons, and this changes all
the time. We never know who are the brightest in the world [at a particular
time] so we have an open door. <BR>
<BR>
<B>M&uuml;ller </B>Diversification is very important. It's important to
have relationship banks, but it's also important to use banks in different
regions, perhaps sometimes banks which are good at certain products. It
makes sense to be quite open-minded. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Isn't it very time-consuming to have a completely open door with even
minor firms making a pitch?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>If<B> </B>they add value, why not? <BR>
<BR>
<B>M&uuml;ller </B>Right. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Are there firms to whom you say, &quot;Look, don't bother to come and
see us again?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Yngwe </B>You scare them off by being very aggressive. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>What would you say? &quot;I need 12 over treasuries.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> Those sort of guys have something to offer us! [laughter] <BR>
<BR>
<B>When you read press stories about deals with market players quoted as
saying &quot;This deal didn't go so well&quot; and so on, do you know who
they are?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We generally know who they are. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>You do? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>You do? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>You can tell. Not for certain:<B> </B>but we have a pretty
good idea who they are, because we know the guys in the market and we know
what they said in the build-up to the issue. Usually they are the guys who
have priced you at a totally different level or had a totally different
story, and you hear that same story coming out. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Would you ring up and ask them to stop?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>You can't prove it. And if a deal is successful by your own
criteria and someone still slags it off, it's even better, because you know
it's sour grapes. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> But it's coming back to the definition of a successful transaction.
What is a successful transaction? The intermediaries only define it as a
success if it tightens substantially. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>The school I come from says that a successful deal stays pretty
much at the level it was launched at. If you have an Orange County type
situation and everything opens up 10bp, you're not going to say to your
lead manager, &quot;OK, you stay in there&quot;. But if there is no fundamental
change in the market and your deal widens out, then for an investor it wasn't
a successful deal. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We launched a deal not too long ago, $200 million, two-year
maturity, treasuries plus five, and we were crucified in the newspapers.
The bond<B> </B>went out to eight over &shyp; which was still within fees
&shyp; and then was back down again. Was that a dog? No, it was not. Everyone
of course knows that if you price a deal five plus US treasuries, it's tight.
You have to be totally stupid if you don't believe it's tight. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Where's it trading now? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>At five. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>That's fine. I mean if it goes from five to eight, then it's
back to five, that's OK. This is not a science, this is an art. Generally
speaking that was a good deal. Nobody would argue that's a bad deal, right?
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> The problem is that if you asked three houses to price that
deal they would have all priced it at five. Then, at the end of the day,
the problem is that the journalist listens to the competitors in the market
with a political agenda because they want to do that deal next time. And
you also have your &quot;mates&quot; in the marketplace who will criticise
the deal because they weren't lead manager. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is it the case that a deal is judged on its first three weeks? <BR>
<BR>
Cutis</B> A deal is judged primarily by what happens in the first week.
Obviously what happens in the second week and the third week and the fourth
week is important, but for most of us, unfortunately or fortunately, it's
a flash; it's the hype &shyp; whoosh! That's why the initial impression
is always enlightening. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>On retail deals you need to look at the pay date. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>I have an example. This happened 10 years ago, but that shows
how strange the market is. We did a 40-year issue, the longest ever Eurobond
at the time. It was a bull market, 1986. It flew &shyp; whoosh &shyp; it
went out of the window and they wanted us to increase it, but we had a fixed
need and so we didn't. And then three months later the market turned. It
was now a bear market, and everyone who was stuck with this issue wanted
to sell and made a hefty loss. This deal was named &quot;Dog of the Year&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> That's not correct. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>No, I don't think so either. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> When investors bought it they were happy, fine. If three months
later they say, &quot;Oh, my God, I shouldn't have bought those bonds. I
was wrong because rates went up 100bp&quot; &shyp; that's not the issue.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> I totally agree with you, but that's not how the market perceived
the issue. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> That should never have been &quot;Dog of the Year&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>It was. I can show you the pictures. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>On the other hand, it's not right either, just to give investors
a guaranteed gain. it's not my way of doing business. If they want to make
a gain, there must be some risk, there must be some potential downside too.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>How could bankers service you better? <BR>
<BR>
Braun </B>I want to know the truth. I don't need pleasantries; I want to
know what really is going on. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>That's a very existential comment &shyp; the truth. <BR>
<BR>
<B>You must get tired of banks' marketing spiel?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>It's so boring. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We throw those guys out. Skip the nonsense, get down to business
and come up with a lot of ideas &shyp; that's what we want. Even if you
don't believe we like the ideas, show them to us. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>Or show Abbey National first. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> There's one bank in Holland which is performing quite well,
and there is another which is &shyp; well, completely off-market. Completely.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>On prices?</B> <BR>
<BR>
At a time when we're buying back our own paper at 22, 23 over Dutch state
loans, they come to us with a proposition for a new issue at 25. &quot;That
must be very attractive for you,&quot; they say. We would buy it back at
23 and say just send us the bill. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do banks do their homework on your likely requirements before coming
to see you?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> Almost all investment bankers come along with thick booklets,
which are renewed every week and tell you what they are doing: but what
the issuer or their potential client is doing is quite unknown to them.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>It's not just on the issuance side, it's the investment side,
too. The big problem is that people come and sell products. They don't have
enough time to try to understand what someone is doing. It's so much easier
to come in and say &quot;Well, South Africa's hot and you should issue&quot;
or &quot;Italy's hot, you should buy bonds&quot;. The business is compartmentalized,
people have products and they just come in, they open up this briefcase,
they see you and they say &quot;OK&quot;, and they just start throwing products
at you. <BR>
<BR>
<B>You make them sound like medicine doctors in the Wild West? <BR>
<BR>
Cutis </B>There are a lot of people who just sell you products. It gets
irritating because they're not listening &shyp; they can't wait for you
to stop talking so they can throw something at you. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Banks claim they are changing from specialists to people who are able
to service a whole range of products. Is that something you've noticed?
<BR>
<BR>
Yngwe </B>Yes and no. We have noticed a trend we don't like, which is that
in some houses they have a most frequent issuer desk. The problem is they
don't really know you. They just want to do deals. They're basically just
lazy guys. If they can sell one name easier than another then they will.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>I disagree with you there. I think it's better. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>For example, the medium-term note guys. They hear from Japan:
&quot;Give us two names, two Nordic names. Has to be AA or better. What
was the level? Libor plus 10.&quot; They don't have a clue who the borrowers
are. It's totally artificial for them. They just look at a screen. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>In our case, if a<B> </B>bank phones us with a good idea or
what appears to be good, we would do the deal and afterwards have the cognac.
For example, we're well aware of names such as Commerzbank and Dresdner
Bank in Germany. But we don't have established contacts, so if someone from
Dresdner or Commerz calls me and says, &quot;We have thought of such and
such, and it's a one-off opportunity&quot; &shyp; although that's a phrase
I don't like &shyp; &quot;would you consider it?&quot; I probably would
say, &quot;OK, looks nice, let's do the deal and then get more acquainted
afterwards.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>What keeps you awake at night?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>I sleep very well. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I don't wake up at 3am, but I do worry about what happens when
a large, very reputable, high quality counterparty<B> </B>goes bust. I think
there's going to be some fireworks because the regulators are so far behind
the technology, notwithstanding the assurances they give you. The question
is, what if a double-A or better-rated counterparty goes under. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>Yes, but I think you've already seen that in Europe, in Spain
and in France. That has shown that the regulator will be there to support
the institutions. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What is the least professional thing a bank has done to you?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> I was thinking of a transaction we did in 1993.<B> </B>We did
a preferred issue in the States.<B> </B>One house approached us first, but
we had about five, six, seven other houses that approached us, too. But
we needed some guidance and we told the first bank, &quot;Since you were
the first that approached us you can be our adviser, but that doesn't mean
we're going to do the issue with you.&quot; And I said, &quot;If it's up
to me, it's going to be based only on price.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
So I have this person writing me a letter saying that he knows this is the
case and we would very much like to be your adviser. And of course, if you're
an adviser, the likelihood of getting the deal is a little higher because
you know everything that is happening. But anyway, it ended up that they
didn't get it because they were totally off when it came to pricing, so
someone else got it and this guy never talked to me again. He was totally
furious. We offered to pay them for the time they spent with us, but they
didn't want to take a fee and what we later learned was that he had, of
course, sold the story internally that he had won the mandate. We were enemies
for a while until I showed the letter to senior management. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>In this respect, American houses don't in general have an
attitude which is compelling to Europeans. At least, not on the Continent.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>[Who formerly worked at Merrill Lynch<B> </B>and Morgan Stanley]
I don't think it's an American view, it's an Anglo-Saxon view. And one large
European institution is hiring a lot of Americans, employing the so-called
Anglo-Saxon view. I do think there is a dominant way, an accepted way of
dealing in the marketplace, and I think it's the so-called Anglo-Saxon way.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Are European borrowers being steam-rollered into deals by US investment
bankers?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>This is a money business, and if you listen to Peter [Yngwe],
who extracts value from every basis point, you cannot be laid back about
it. If you're laid back, someone's going to cut your heart out. <BR>
<BR>
<B>But in the origination stage?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>You've got to do everything. This marketing onslaught is what
the Anglo-Saxon institutions are very good at, and you're right, they're
very good. They bring everybody and their brother, they fly them in from
five points of the globe and it's impressive, but, you know, we're talking
about money here, I mean this is big stuff. <BR>
<BR>
<B>But does is this marketing onslaught with lots of people involved counter
productive?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>Sometimes they're embarrassed by it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Are they?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>It's more or less the experience we had when we recently entered
the markets. The Americans, of course, were quite active. We said, &quot;OK,
but there is no point in sending all these people round.&quot; They said,
&quot;We'll do it anyhow: it's free of charge and they'll give you good
advice.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>We like to see commitment, basically. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>But<B> </B>they want to make you feel committed to <I>them</I>
&shyp; and we absolutely wanted to avoid it. And that is where it clashes.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>But you don't know how they're going to treat you in the aftermarket?</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Then you're responsible, as the issuer. You must say, &quot;OK,
let's cut through all the fluff.&quot; Don't let them tell you that they're
prepared and organized and going to do seven road shows, if it's not true.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>But, Mark [Cutis], you've been on that side of the fence: some issuers
haven't.</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I find it more amusing because I remember all the things that
I used to say. In a former life I used to come to Europe and talk about
commercial paper issuance and the stuff I used to say, particularly in Scandinavia
&shyp; I'm surprised they didn't throw me out. [Looks at Yngwe] You would
have thrown me out. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>Never. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>But I think that the large borrowers know the game. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> You're absolutely right.  <HR><BR>
<BR>
<B>The participants</B> <BR>
<BR>
Alex Braun, <I>director of funding, Abbey National (borrowed $4.4 billion
Jan-Jun 1996)</I> <BR>
<BR>
Mark Cutis, <I>treasurer, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
($2.1 billion)</I> <BR>
<BR>
Henk van Hemert, <I>treasurer, bng ($3.58 billion)</I> <BR>
<BR>
Gabriele M&uuml;ller, <I>head of capital markets, Depfa ($9.5 billion)</I>
<BR>
<BR>
Peter Yngwe, <I>cfo and treasurer, Swedish Exportkredit ($2.5 billion)</I>
<HR>
<H2>Mystery of the euro Eurobond </H2>
<B>As European borrowers are you seriously thinking about European monetary
union (Emu)?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>I was at a recent conference where the content was clearly
and unambiguously Emu, the road to Emu and what you are doing for Emu. What
struck me was that by hook or by crook everyone there, from participants,
to sponsors to the guy that was changing the slides, had made the intrinsic
assumption that on January 1, 1999 Emu will occur. But is it really inevitable,
is it happening? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> There are obviously huge operational problems still to be sorted
out, but at the end of the day we only consider it a political question.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> I think that meeting the Maastricht criteria will be quite
difficult. In Germany it is absolutely out of the question to relax the
criteria. But, then again, the Germans themselves could be in trouble, and
maybe they'll conclude they must not be too hard on the others. In Germany
it will be a decision which will be taken in a similar way to German unification,
which was firmly opposed by the Bundesbank &shyp; on financial grounds &shyp;
but nevertheless happened because of politics. That is what we could see
here &shyp; that on January 1 1999 the politicians say &quot;Okay, let's
go for it.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> The German situation is very interesting, because up until
a year ago the Bundesbank was always dragging its heels and kicking and
fighting. But there has been a very subtle, yet discernible, change in the
last three months, which points to the fact that Germany has some long-term
structural problems as a result of its high wages bill, of its high unit
labour costs, and of its unfunded pension liabilities. I feel the Bundesbank
is much more attuned to Emu today than it was before. Its inclination is
to bring everybody in because of the German fear of competitive devaluation
exposing how massively over-valued the Deutschmark is. And this is why I
think there is a chance that it could happen &shyp; because it makes sense
for Germany, whereas a year ago it was perceived to be inimical to German
interests. <BR>
<BR>
<B>But do you think it <I>will</I> happen?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> Not on this schedule. Absolutely not. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is that an unpopular view in your organization [the EBRD]?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Absolutely. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Would you lose arbitrage opportunities as well?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> Well, that's the whole problem isn't it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>You'll always find arbitrage opportunities. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We never took this thing seriously until last year when we
realized that, even if we don't believe in it, we have to take it seriously.
It sure is a political project and the politicians are 100% for it so I
think it will happen &shyp; because it's a political issue. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is there much you can do in preparation?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> If you have done a Deutschmark issue, or an issue in any European
currency likely to join the Emu<B> </B>project, you can be sued by the investor
in legislations outside Europe. Even if they don't win, that will cost time
and effort and you might lose face in that country, in that region and no-one
has yet been able to answer that issue for me. What will happen? How will
Europe take care of that? Will it compensate me for expense I might incur
due to the fact that they changed their currencies? <BR>
<BR>
<B>What about the nightmare situation where it actually happens and then
falls apart after a few months?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>Sorry? It falls apart after a few months? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Well, after a year or two, maybe &shyp; during the transition period:
perhaps there are political or economic reasons why it can't go ahead.</B>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> But the transition period is not really a transition period.
Once the decision has been taken, it is a final decision. For operational
reasons we may still work with our national currencies for a while, but
the decision will be irreversible and must be irreversible. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe</B> He is persuaded. But anything can happen. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>Every country will give away its sovereignty. That's the reason
the British probably won't be in it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>That is the key issue. That's why so many commentators will
argue that you need a 'big bang' approach. That you go from one bit to the
next and there is not this confusion about currencies co-existing side-by-side.
I don't think for us it will be a big problem. If there is one thing that
I know it is that if you have an account in Ecus on December 30 1998, on
January 2 1999 it will be re-denominated in Euros so all the Ecu bonds will
become euro Eurobonds. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert</B> I don't think so, because the present Ecu includes currencies
which it is highly likely won't be in<B> </B>Emu. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>If there is a market collapse, we buy back our paper, we extinguish
our debt. That is not necessarily a problem for us. The real problem is
for the sovereign borrowers which will be suddenly appearing in these markets,
borrowing in this currency, with the absence of any queuing system or any
methodology. When do the Germans borrow and when do the French borrow, when
do the Italians borrow? I think that is something that hasn't been addressed.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>M&uuml;ller </B>I think the technicals are less important than the investor
base. For example, we issue in French francs because that's strategic to
us &shyp; we want to be in an important market.. It's important to win local
investors by issuing in their currency at the moment. And then probably
when the euro happens, it will be more important to be known as an issuer.
That's how we feel about it and that's how we are preparing for it. <HR>
<H2>The future of the market </H2>
<B>How do you see the rest of the year going?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> The most prominent phenomenon that will characterize the rest
of this year and into 1998 will be a resumption of volatility. We are working
on special situations, whether in Taiwan or Latin America. We're trying
to do some new transactions and open new markets. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>I don't know about volatility. If what Mark [Cutis] says is
true and volatility increases, that usually provides opportunities. But
that's probably not good for the exporters we're involved with. We always
try to diversify our funding base and we're working on a lot of new markets,
in a similar way to the EBRD. The important thing is to be diversified.
I've just come back from Asia and visited a lot of different markets. They're
opening up. It will take some time in some places. But it's important you're
there. <BR>
<BR>
<B>It is interesting that both of you have mentioned new markets and you
Mark spoke about Taiwan. Is this just tapping the local investor base in
Taiwan or is just using local currency issues?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis</B> It's both.<B> </B>What we are planning in Taiwan is a local
currency issue. At present we are working on either 10 or 11 new markets,
of which three may pan out. So it's a probabilistic exercise to a large
extent. <BR>
<BR>
<B>In Latin America too &shyp; in local currency?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Absolutely. Essentially what you are riding here is the crest
of the emerging markets wave where investors are looking, particularly in
the US, for high-yield paper. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Yngwe </B>We have a slightly different approach. Our clients, Swedish
exporters, need funding in local currencies all around the globe, especially
in the emerging markets. We are not seeking to swap the proceeds, so if
we are able to enter into a local market we're going to keep the local currency
and on-lend it to the Swedish exporters or to the local buyer. We want to
tap the local investors, because if you involve international investors
then you will get the currency play. <BR>
<BR>
<B>How much is the Japanese investor at the margin still driving the way
the markets are going?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cutis </B>Where we are getting the bulk of our finance in 1995 and this
year is from Japan. It is really the single largest source of funds for
us in a consistent fashion &shyp; chunky size as well as small size; retail
as well as institutional. That's really where it's coming from. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Is that going to continue?</B> <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun </B>I don't think that's where all the borrowers are finding funds.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>M&uuml;ller </B>We've had quite a successful start to the year with the
global <I>Pfandbriefe </I>which were placed quite heavily into Japan and
non-Japan Asia. On the second one about 30% went to Asian accounts. But
in general it is not a large source for us. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Braun</B> Japanese retail is not necessarily fully acquainted with Abbey
National, as it is with the EBRD, which is a triple-A supranational, or
a sovereign borrower like Italy which has been very successful in tapping
that market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Hemert </B>We don't sell heavily into Japan. Although if we are looking
for an expansion of our investor base on a world scale then Japan, for the
time being, would be our first choice, not the US. But we would prefer a
more strategic widening of our investor base to take place in Europe: that
is where currency differences are vanishing. <bR><BR><BR>
<H3><A NAME="new-issue"></A>Can you get finer price discovery? </H3>
<H4>How do you price your next Eurobond issue? Don't just listen to the
lead manager, who will tell you pricing is a delicate art. Study the term
structure (yield curve) generated by your own past issues in the two months
after they came to market. They are a sure guide to where your next one
will trade and - to investors - whether they should buy, argues Eurobond
consultant Brian Mooyaart </H4>
A good two-thirds of Eurobond issues by AAA to AA3 borrowers are wrongly
priced, or brought at the wrong terms and conditions, according to our research.*
This misjudgement means that many such issues become illiquid, sometimes
well before the settlement date. As a result, investors tend to become wary
about the tradeability of their Eurobond portfolios. They react either by
concentrating on the underlying government bond markets or by demanding
a premium to compensate for anticipated illiquidity. <BR>
<BR>
Too often, the investor is rewarded for sitting on the fence until the bond
syndicate breaks. Who can blame him, if he can then pick up a good slice
of the issue at a discount to the re-offer price? Graph 1 gives the dimensions
of the problem in the Deutschmark market earlier this year (other markets
give very similar results) during a period of 23 trading days. <BR>
<BR>
During that time 11 issues were launched and tracked by us. The term structure
of those issuers at the time they came to the market coincides with 0 on
the <I>y</I> axis. The area between the top and bottom curves (which show
the most underpriced and most overpriced issues at day one) is the divergence
from those term structures and hence from the appropriate terms and conditions
needed for the issues to have been moderately successful. That difference
diminishes over time (in this case over 23 days) and, as every investor
knows, the market will in the end force the issue into an appropriate yield
band for that credit, before the paper becomes illiquid. <BR>
<BR>
Market camouflage comes quickly to the rescue of the mispriced issue. The
lead manager plunders the Eurobond thesaurus for choice phrases such as
&quot;spreads have widened generally&quot; or &quot;the market has a weak
undertone&quot;. Yet how much of any given deterioration (or upswing) is
accounted for by an overall market change and how much attributable to optimistic
pricing of the specific issue? <BR>
<BR>
Experienced issuers know that consistently correct pricing lowers borrowing
costs, opens access to new markets and widens the possibilities for arbitrage
and hedging. Investors know that such issues remain liquid and provide a
reliable means for rebalancing their portfolios, in addition to the use
of derivative instruments. Both parties need reliable measuring tools. The
investor requires more than a fair-value comparison if he is to make accurate
decisions on large investments in quality issues. The issuer needs continually
to revisit the price-discovery process, to monitor his standing in each
of the capital markets at his disposal. How different this standing is from
borrower to borrower, even within the AAA-rated category, is shown in graph
2. This shows the US dollar market on April 4 as represented by 118 AAA
issuers. Of these, our term-structure model (called Quits, see <I>Euromoney</I>,
July 1995 page 124) uses only the 24 most liquid issues (as defined below).
It describes for each issuer an accurate level at which new issues at various
maturities should trade for the two months after the syndicate breaks. The
issuer-specific term structure for the weakest AAAs is given by the higher
curve. The issuer-specific term structure for the strongest AAAs is given
by the lower curve. The substantial term structure difference, even within
this top rating category, illustrates why issuers <I>and</I> investors would
benefit from issuer-specific term structures to determine their market position
and achieve their priorities. <BR>
<BR>
Our July 1995 article described the modelling of a benchmark term structure
for a generic AAA Eurobond, calculated through Quits (quantum equilibrium
independent term structure). In further research we decided that a term
structure, to be usefully applied to a specific issuer, would similarly
have to be precise enough to deal on and be accurate within two basis points.
The goal was to be able to define ideal new-issue pricing at a keystroke
for all the major borrowers in six capital markets. <BR>
<BR>
A database tracking tool provided us with extensive detail with particular
reference to price-notation frequency, price volatility, modified duration,
convexity, etc, in the secondary markets. Measurement of the impact of new
issues on the secondary market can tell us a great deal about the price
response of individual issues. In addition, several ingredients vital to
the success of a Eurobond were included: data on bid-offer spread volatility;
lead managers' scores for correctness of pricing; the size of the issue
relative to outstanding issues. <BR>
<BR>
Most approaches to issuer-specific term structures look either explicitly
or implicitly at where an issuer's paper is trading in the secondary market.
This measurement is made against the relevant government benchmark and against
a peer group of similar issuers in the secondary market. The government
benchmark has its own volatility, even in the short term. Taking a peer
group ignores the one vital ingredient to accurate measurement: liquidity.
<BR>
<BR>
Tracking the database proves what most investors know and what most other
participants concerned with price discovery tend to overlook. The degree
of liquidity in the secondary market is greatly overestimated, even within
the category of AAA issuers. However sophisticated the model at hand, any
compromise on the liquidity/quality criterion introduces considerable errors
of measurement and clouds the picture from the start. <BR>
<BR>
Modelled pricing, fair-value pricing, generic pricing - these are all inputs
which the trader will rightly ignore as tools to find value in an illiquid
secondary market. The reason is evident: he cannot deal in size at those
prices and they do not therefore form a substantive part of his decision-making.
Enter such yield points in the scatter of whichever model is to be constructed
and a false reading of the market will be the result. <BR>
<BR>
Our criteria are as follows: <BR>
<BR>
* the issue has to be AAA rated; <BR>
<BR>
* the coupon has be approximately at the market level for each maturity;
<BR>
<BR>
* the launch of the issue must have been at a correct (equilibrium yield)
level, as subsequently confirmed by the secondary market; <BR>
<BR>
* the issue must be of benchmark size and be led by one of the top 15 houses;
<BR>
<BR>
* the lead manager must have led at least three issues for that borrower
in the last three years. <BR>
<BR>
Liquidity is measured by volume traded, ticket size and frequency of price
notation: bid-offer spreads should be no more than 25bp, and tighter where
appropriate. <BR>
<BR>
Although attention is focused on the new issues, we cannot ignore the secondary-market
context (with the above-enumerated provisos). It is important to measure
what the market is doing at the time of the launch. Is it in equilibrium
without imminent expectation of a change in interest rates, secondary market
turnover or primary market volume? Or is it in disequilibrium, with an expectation
of lower interest rates, increasing secondary market turnover, pent-up investor
demand, or a lack of new issues? Or is it in an unstable but rising interest
rate environment? In each component part of the market, trend lines are
established against which the volatility of government bonds, liquid AAA
Eurobonds and swaps are measured. Volumes issued and volumes maturing are
monitored in short time-frames of four weeks and, at three-month intervals,
the relationship with the issuer's paper in other bond markets. <BR>
<BR>
<B>It's all in the price</B> <BR>
<BR>
No single ingredient of this market context is left to subjective judgement.
On the contrary, each can be enumerated from the data-tracking tool referred
to earlier. The dictum &quot;It's all in the price&quot; fully applies.
This is important. We are in a market that tends to explain away its errors
as the inconsistencies of an art form rather than a science. The investor
side of the Eurobond community is suitably sceptical. <BR>
<BR>
Each new issue is benchmarked against the Quits term structure. We note
the terms and conditions at launch and, crucially, the spread over this
benchmark term structure. We establish where the issue (as confirmed by
the secondary market) should have been priced and the basis-point difference
between the actual and the Quits-generated price. We track whether that
difference increases or diminishes over the succeeding few days, and what
its volatility is. How much of that increase or diminution is attributable
to a change in the underlying government bond market and how much to mispricing
at launch? <BR>
<BR>
The new issue is monitored daily for three months after settlement. If the
issue has come within a given basis-point band above or below what we consider
to be the equilibrium issuing yield, and if it has stayed within that band
over the period and retained good liquidity (the two are noticeably interdependent),
then the issue is added to our high-quality database. If not then it is
placed in a more archival tracking device. <BR>
<BR>
Graph 3 shows the prevailing term structures in the Deutschmark market earlier
this year at the time a particular AAA issuer brought a 10-year issue. At
the moment of launch the Quits term structure was as shown by the red curve,
giving a re-offered yield in 10 years of 5.981%. The issuer-specific term
structure given by the green curve indicated that the issue should come
at a re-offered yield of 6.068%. With a launch yield at 6.017%, the issue
was underpriced and provided a yield 5.1bp below where the issuer-specific
term structure indicated it should be. Graph 4 shows the tracking process,
seven days after launch, with respect to that particular AAA issuer. In
the three days after the launch the market showed a general deterioration.
This trend was sharply reversed during the next 48 hours, after which the
market resumed a downward trend for the remaining two days. <BR>
<BR>
It can be seen that, after initial irresolution, through the counteracting
influences of weak co-manager sales and lead-manager intervention, the issue
tends to gravitate towards the point where the issuer-specific matrix indicated
it should have been in the first place. By the end of the third day's trading
it has already closed up to the relevant issuer-specific term structure
(it is by no means unusual for this to happen so soon). <BR>
<BR>
The component measurements are clear. Over the seven-day period in question
there was an overall market yield increase of 20.8bp. The issue's re-offered
yield increase over the same period amounted to 25.3bp. The camouflage expression
&quot;spreads have widened generally&quot; is exposed, with market and issuer
component trends distinctly measured; the net change (increase) in issue
yield is 4.5bp over the seven-day period. <BR>
<BR>
Measurements must be made over two interest-rate cycles (and must withstand
the buffeting of currency, interest-rate and liquidity crises). The terms
and conditions of the given issue have to be measured against the Quits
benchmark at launch. The difference between the Quits yield level and the
issuer in question has to be measured over the period that the issue remains
liquid. <BR>
<BR>
Its margin over the Quits term structure will stabilize and be noted before
the issue becomes illiquid (with an illiquid issue the margin becomes unstable).
This measured margin over Quits is compared with the margin of subsequent
issues for the same borrower in the same maturity and in the same currency.
A matrix of values unique to that issuer is thus built up in a number of
capital markets. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Issuer expecations</B> <BR>
<BR>
The issuer may or may not be pleased with the result. Some issuers will
congratulate themselves on having undercut the market for some cheap funding
just before rates moved away from them. Others will consider the implications
of an incorrect benchmark issued in their name on the pricing of a future
issue. Others again will deliberately pitch their terms a given number of
basis points below those that would give them a substantial, liquid issue.
But to do this, we argue that they would still benefit from the guidance
of a term structure generated from their own new-issue history. <BR>
<BR>
An example of issuer relationships is given in the table. It shows the re-offered
yields, the swap into US dollars (at the re-offer) and the margin over treasuries
of six issuers (names withheld for fiduciary reasons) in the US dollar market
in January of this year. Note that there is considerable divergence even
within the AAA category. <BR>
<BR>
In the course of our research we expected to find that different capital
markets would show up different values in a matrix of a group of borrowers.
This proved to be the case. We also observed that some markets make a lesser
basis-point value distinction (credit compression) between the different
rating categories, others much more so. What surprised us was to find that
the matrix of issuer values within a given market, say the French franc,
remains remarkably stable over time. <BR>
<BR>
Such stability of inter-issuer values is only slightly diminished in markets
that have been actively used by emerging market borrowers, such as the US
dollar and the Deutschmark. In those markets there is a more pronounced
credit compression in the matrix of issuer values. Investors in those markets
had a greater choice of issuers giving a yield pick-up and therefore placed
less value distinction among the AAA to A1 OECD credits, whose liquidity
is not as different from the emerging market issuers as their rating would
seem to imply. In the last 18 months the best AAA 10-year paper has come
in by around 16bp against a typical sovereign A1 OECD issuer. This leaves
an absolute difference of between 25bp and 32bp, depending on the particular
capital market in which issues were made. <BR>
<BR>
In each of the six capital markets for which we can define issuer-specific
term structures, data show that there are only between seven and nine issuers
whose issues remain liquid for more than one year. Even among such a select
group, this is only the case where the issue was correctly priced, well
managed in the primary market by a quality lead manager, and well placed
among a diverse investor base that understands the credit. In effect, research
shows that, as you move further away from the very best of the AAA issuers,
so you should progressively ignore the trading levels of a particular issuer's
paper in the secondary market as a basis for new-issue pricing. <BR>
<BR>
We believe a regular issuer of whatever credit quality should facilitate
liquidity in its issues, which should wherever possible be correctly priced
to begin with. The issuer should be able to use its issuer-specific term
structure as a selling-point for its own issues, giving the investor greater
transparency and liquidity. For the issuer that should lead to a fall in
the liquidity premium demanded by the investor, and hence should reduce
its issuing costs. <BR>
<BR>
<I>*Brian Mooyaart runs a capital markets advisory company, Mooyaart Consult.
His first article, &quot;Double or Quits&quot;, appeared in Euromoney in
July 1995</I>. <BR><BR><BR>
<H3>1: Tracking into the issuer-specific term structure </H3>
<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=5 ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Issuer-specific term structures </B></TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5 ALIGN="RIGHT"><B><I>(us dollar market April 4 1996)*</I></B></TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B>Equilibrium re-offered yield</B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>Term
</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>aaa </I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>aaa
</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>aa1 </I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>aa2 </I></B></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>(years)</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">2</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >5.794%</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >5.815%</TD> <TD>5,851%</TD> <TD>5.893%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">3</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >6.035%</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >6.059%</TD> <TD>6.097%</TD> <TD>6.140%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">4</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >6.197%</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >6.222%</TD> <TD>6.262%</TD> <TD>6.308%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">5</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >6.298%</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >6.325%</TD> <TD>6.368%</TD> <TD>6.415%</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">7</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >6.462%</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >6.495%</TD> <TD>6.551%</TD> <TD>6.599%</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">10</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >6.648%</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >6.690%</TD> <TD>6.765%</TD> <TD>6.815%</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B>US dollar under/over Libor at re-offer yield
</B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B><I>(basis points)</I></B></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>Term </I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>aaa
</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>aaa </I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>aa1 </I></B></TD>
<TD><B><I>aa2 </I></B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>(years)</I></B></TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD>
<TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">2</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >-24.6</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >-22.5</TD> <TD>-18.9</TD> <TD>-14.7</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">3</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >-20.5</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >-18.1</TD> <TD>-14.3</TD> <TD>-10.0</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">4</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >-18.4</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >-15.8</TD> <TD>-11.8</TD> <TD>-7.3</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">5</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >-19.2</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >-16.5</TD> <TD>-12.2</TD> <TD>-7.5</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">7</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >-18.8</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >-15.5</TD> <TD>-9.9</TD> <TD>-5.1</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">10</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >-17.2</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >-13.0</TD> <TD>-5.5</TD> <TD>-0.5</TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B>Margin
over/under treasuries at re-offer yield </B></TD> </TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><B><I>(basis
points)</I></B></TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>Term
</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>aaa </I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>aaa
</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>aa1 </I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>aa2 </I></B></TD> </TR>
<TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT"><B><I>(years)</I></B></TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 ><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD> <TD><B><I>issuer</I></B></TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">2</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >-5.8</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >-3.6</TD> <TD>0</TD> <TD>4.1</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">3</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >4.7</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >7.0</TD> <TD>10.8</TD> <TD>15.2</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">4</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >12.0</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >14.5</TD> <TD>18.6</TD> <TD>23.1</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">5</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >14.7</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >17.4</TD> <TD>21.7</TD> <TD>26.4</TD>
</TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">7</TD> <TD COLSPAN=3 >19.6</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=2 >22.9</TD> <TD>28.5</TD> <TD>33.3</TD> </TR> <TR ALIGN="RIGHT"><TD ALIGN="LEFT">10</TD>
<TD COLSPAN=3 >26.6</TD> <TD COLSPAN=2 >30.8</TD> <TD>38.3</TD> <TD>43.3</TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><I>*Names of specific borrowers withheld </I></TD>
</TR> <TR><TD COLSPAN=5><I>for fiduciary reasons</I></TD> </TR> </TABLE>


 
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-60</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B020-235</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.02/wl.96.02.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114135609 text/html 29552
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:55:05 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 21 Oct 1996 10:31:09 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 29310
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
March/April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra14.gif" alt="Davos 1996">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2>BREAKING UP IS HARD TO DO </H2>
Despite the recent spate of high-profile mergers in the banking industry,
that sector seems to be the exception rather than the rule as companies
divorce and break up into smaller units. The latest buzzword is &quot;core
competence&quot; rather than &quot;conglomeration&quot;. The synergies that
can be maintained by running a smaller company, underperformance by larger
groups and, most importantly of all, stockmarket approval are all cited
as reasons. <BR>
<BR>
At Davos this year <I>World Link</I>  sat down with Travis Engen, chief
executive of ITT Industries; John Mayo, finance director of bioscience giant
Zeneca; Eberhard von Koerber, president of the engineering multinational
Asea Brown Boveri and Orit Gadiesh, chairman of the Boston-based strategic
consultants Bain &amp; Company. Both ITT Industries and Zeneca are proponents
of demergers, having gone through the process successfully in 1995 and 1993
respectively. The ITT Corporation broke up its many diverse activities while
Zeneca took pharmaceuticals, organic chemistry and biotechnology away from
the British chemical giant ICI. The ABB group took the alternative route
of delayering and reengineering along a flat hierarchy while Bain sat in
as an informed observer. <BR>
<BR>
The roundtable could not have come at a more apposite moment. As it took
place, details were emerging in the press about the prospective demergers
of both Hanson and British Gas. Received wisdom would argue that Lord Hanson
was forced into the move by dedicated followers of corporate fashion but
the reasons for company divorces are more complicated than that. As both
Engen and Mayo argue below, beware the company that ignores the wishes of
its investors. The message is that diversification is too complex an issue
to leave to chief executives alone. <BR>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> Is there a trend to break up conglomerates or is each
case very particular? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> When this topic came up at ITT Corporation, I was responsible
for the manufacturing businesses which I now run as ITT Industries, as well
as the insurance business and several other areas. At the time I felt a
separation would be an admission of failure... to sustain successes of the
past. However, I then began to believe that it was essential to separate,
driven by the state of the capital markets. Our businesses competed in industries
with fundamentally different capital structures and costs, debt levels,
debt ratings, interest requirements and price/earnings ratios. To be truly
competitive, each of the businesses needs to be capitalised in a way competitive
with its marketplace. <BR>
<BR>
For a manufacturing company, that would be investment-graded but certainly
not AAA: basically, we shot our targets at the A to BBB investment grade
credit. It is also true for the gaming and entertainment business. On the
other hand, the insurance business is fundamentally driven by ratings. You
cannot be successful in the market if you do not have a strong capital structure.
We got to the point where we could not grow and compete in our other business
sectors without putting the ratings of the insurance business in jeopardy.
<BR>
<BR>
The old ITT had a fairly complex structure - over 500 legal entities
- but these entities never got in the way of managing the business
because we had clear operational management responsibilities. So the separation
into three new companies was actually straightforward. We had quite a bit
of work to do sorting through the legal structure, which was organised on
the basis of tax efficiency with very little regard for operating structures.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> Every case has its own rationale, as Travis has clearly illustrated.
In your case, if you maintain strong AAA rating just to serve the insurance
company, the cost of capital is significantly higher for the other businesses.
In some cases the appropriate response will be to stay as you are, but in
others it is to do something about it. What you trade off is breadth and
depth. There are synergies that come with breadth and more growth notes
are likely to be available in the organisation. On the other hand, the more
focused you are the more intimacy senior management has with the business
and the better the quality and speed of decision-making. That leads you
into [asking] what advantage central management brings. If it can help the
business tap these synergies and their value is greater than the loss of
intimacy in decision-making, then it is better to be broad. But if the synergies
do not really exist, there is no advantage. The only thing that you introduce
then is a lack of intimacy and by definition it must be negative. The parenting
advantage brought by the centre, where it can nurture a shared set of skills
across the businesses and provide some special advantage to the underlying
businesses, is key to the issue. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> I am an observer of both companies and have worked with lots
of other companies that have either discussed the possibility of breaking
up [after] having a tough time, or we have raised the issues [for them].
I think the really interesting issue is [timing]. Breaking up a company
is never obvious - it is a very hard thing to do - although for
an outsider it is a little more clear. When you are in the middle of something
which looks like it is going well, the intimacy is still there and the synergies
feel like they are still there, it is tricky to [act to] prevent what [might]
happen. <BR>
<BR>
Think about an industry that looks like there are an awful lot of synergies,
like computer companies. The market is not telling the integrated companies
there is anything wrong with them, it is still looking at them the same
way, but it is also looking at Microsoft, Intel and service companies and
valuing them differently. The integrated companies do not feel there is
anything wrong with them: they have done their reengineering, they are all
making money. For example IBM has delayered, since selling boxes is different
from selling software is different from selling services: these sectors
are beginning to compete with each other [within IBM] because if you sell
the boxes they may not want to buy the services and so on. <BR>
<BR>
And yet I see more and more situations where it is almost clear that the
company's total value would be higher [from a demerger], at least the way
the capital markets value them. And probably also in terms of focus, because
people who make boxes do not really know how to manage software people,
how to think about software, how to think in small chunks, which is what
it is all about. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> The people on the inside are running the business with a mindset
based on history: the justification of that executive's career and the collective
knowledge of that [company]. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> You have to be careful how you define the word synergy. Hanson
has no synergy between the four parts that just broke up, but it had synergies
in terms of cost cuts. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> There are synergies which are never on a balance sheet, which
have tremendous value. One of the best is the quality of management we have
had in our company. Because we were in so many businesses, there was a tremendous
management education going on. You are getting people who are exposed to
very different settings, both culturally as well as in a business cycle
sense. For example [the ITT hotel chain] Sheraton began in China in 1985
and the other businesses were able to build on their presence. The whole
company now has great relationships in China which started with Sheraton.
<BR>
<BR>
World Link So far these are all arguments for not breaking apart... <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> There is no common impetus. What we see is that there
are conglomerates which, by staying together, do not provide the kind of
added value needed in spite of their size and complexity. Then they break
up, and if it is done properly the market honours each company with a higher
market value. <BR>
<BR>
Most break-ups have been driven more from a shareholder value point of view
than by managers taking internal decisions and reducing their empires. Normally
those whose run companies have no interest in reducing their territories.
So there has to be a stronger, higher level of interest from the owner side.
If top management has a stake in the company or operates under aggressive
option schemes, this creates break-ups to achieve additional value. <BR>
<BR>
At ABB we have experienced both phenomena. We have focused on core business
and divested non-core businesses. This is not the kind of break-up you mean,
from the top down to the last men. What we have seen more of is horizontal
break-up, be it in the automotive industry or in the electrical engineering
industry where you have a lot of internal supplies, similar customers, synergies
in emerging markets and synergies with the banking system, financial and
tax engineering. <BR>
<BR>
When we merged we created a large number of legal entities inside the group
which then resulted in some 1,300 companies all over the globe. That was
done to inject adrenaline into this terribly large company and make the
general managers or presidents of those individual companies &quot;owners&quot;
of their balance sheets, their profits and losses and their customers, and
let them be an entrepreneur inside the company rather than a middle-level
executive technocrat in a huge organisation. <BR>
<BR>
That in itself has created a trend. Across Europe the structure of a holding
company with lots of subsidiaries has been copied by many others. Some local
competitors started it too, and fortunately made the same mistakes we did
earlier by overdoing it. We did it with a little too much fundamentalism
and now we are reversing that to recapture the loss of synergies -
for example on large projects - which result from splitting up too
much, leading to over-individualistic behaviour by the rulers of smaller
kingdoms. The 1,300 companies existing two years after the merger in 1990
have now come down to roughly 700 companies. So there is a happy medium.
Neither a monolithic structure nor an excessively fragmented and decentralised
structure are positive. <BR>
<BR>
But coming back to the question of break-ups: we have achieved a strict
policy of segmentation with a few segment managers up in the very top and
small holding companies at national and world level, to ensure that these
people add value and cannot disturb the others in their daily work. That
has saved us, for example, from having broken up into an oil and gas company,
an electrical engineering company and a rail transport company. Now we have
merged the rail transportation business to create an even bigger unit with
Daimler-Benz. This is not a break-up, it is just a different alliance structure
created to be more powerful in the marketplace against our arch-competitors
Siemens and GEC Alstrom. <BR>
<BR>
We would not have been able to hold this together if we had not had strict
global segmentation, with hardly any staff at the top and decentralised
structures close to the customers. It has added marketing impact, profitability
and shareholder value, so much so that our market capitalisation today is
three times higher than it was seven years ago at the time of the merger.
I see this kind of balancing and customer tailoring as a trend, not a general
impetus for break-up. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> People love talking about fads [but] every company arrives
at different solutions for different reasons. Two companies with very similar
problems could come up with different successful strategies, one that has
broken up and one that has not, depending on the organisation, how they
think, how much they need intimacy, what they end up doing with it. <BR>
<BR>
<B> .</B> &quot;Words mean what you want them to mean,&quot; said Alice
[in Wonderland], and different people think of different things when they
think about demerger. The process just described [about ABB] obviously worked.
You succeeded in getting focus into those business teams, but that does
not necessarily exist in other companies. For instance, in ICI Pharmaceuticals
as it then was, every single pharmaceutical business in every single territory
had its own separate unit and was run in the way you described. But for
several reasons that is not always enough. There must be some synergies
between the ABB businesses that are worth retaining, that are of more value
than the cost of keeping them together. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> Let me explain that quickly. [The synergies come] not
only with internal deliveries but in large project business where we come
in with turnkey contracts, where your internal supplies have to be high
enough to justify the business risks. To succeed, it is extremely important
to have this large piano under your control: then you can customise depending
on requirements, supply chains, pricing and internal balance of interests.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> But if one of your project managers wanted to use devices provided
by somebody outside of ABB, could they do that? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> Yes. Individual supplies have to be at arms length, competitive
with external supplies. If units try an internal rip-off they are out. And
we have clear rules about how that process works. We hate [such] instructions
but, being so big, you have to regulate that very firmly and enforce it
otherwise you have chaos. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> What you have just described is the reason why it makes sense
for ABB to stay together, to produce focus internally, because it is an
economic benefit that your shareholders can enjoy. You have also just described
one of the key parenting advantages that the centre brings, making sure
there are no internal rip-offs and maintaining efficiency. It is the job
of the centre to make sure that units given a lot of autonomy do not run
off and do silly things. ABB fits the model perfectly well. You have looked
at the circumstances and competitive environment and the advantages of staying
together outweigh the advantages of separating. But if you look at your
market capitalisation, it has gone up partly because of cost reduction and
partly because you actually milk these synergies effectively. <BR>
<BR>
If you look at a more straightforward demerger, you see an increase in value
partly caused by focus, removal of the cost of complexity and chasing non-existent
synergies. improved intimacy, the quality of decision-making and the speed
of response to market changes. You also touched on the fact that you benefit
from improvements in market value because investors want to invest in things
they understand and know can work. In two years our market capitalisation
doubled. That is improved efficiency which the market could see. For example,
our head office does not have hundreds of people in it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> How many do you have? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> We have 93 people in the head office. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> We have 150 in the whole group. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> I would imagine the scale of operations are similar. I do not
think we can have a universal panacea and say, here is a solution for one
company or another. But the solution you described for ABB is not a reference
to demerger, and a demerger would have been inappropriate. Your method for
producing focus or selling off bits does not count in my mind as demerger.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> Is there any reason why the confederative approach could
not work more broadly? Why would that not have been appropriate for ICI
and ITT? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> We were in everything from gambling to hotels to insurance.
We had profit and losses along market lines and organisational structures
to give people motivation at local levels, and that was well advanced. But
on the capital market side, what has happened over the last 20 years is
the rise of institutions and mutual funds. The people in those organisations
who make decisions about placing investments are looking for a simple life.
Why should they spent time trying to understand the economic complexities
of a large corporation when they can look at a focused investment opportunity,
understand three things and get comfortable with it? They are also busy
enough not to get engaged in figuring out whether this is a collection which
is a good investment or not. They do not have to. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> But you can explain it. Nearly all the institutions to which
I explained the ICI demerger asked why one collection of businesses was
going to Zeneca and another staying in ICI. They are intelligent and responded
well to reasoned argument demonstrating synergies within those separate
groups. If we could not have valued such large-scale synergies, we would
have put forward a different solution. They understood that the science
base behind Zeneca's businesses was similar, although their markets may
be different. There is a huge technical synergy that runs through this,
based on synthetic organic chemistry and biotechnology, [which means] you
can literally move scientists, ideas and molecular investment around to
find the use for which a new active molecule is best-suited. In our case
the synergy is technical and in ABB's case it is an ability to address a
customer with a turnkey project. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> There are two issues a corporation considering demerger needs
to consider. The first is to identify where any synergystic advantages are
coming: bigger is not always better. A company must define where in the
business value chain it needs to compete. For instance, in the pharmaceutical
sector, global scale is important for r&amp;d expenditures. A pharmaceutical
company would like to spread r&amp;d costs over as many markets as possible
but for this same company, there may be no distribution cost advantage from
operating worldwide. Distribution cost-efficiencies come from having critical
scale at the country or regional level, not the global level. <BR>
<BR>
The second issue is that value in any given industry sector migrates over
time based on changing customer needs. While it may once have been critical
for a company to participate in vertical segments of the value chain to
serve customers in the best way, it may not be anymore. There used to be
a value in an IBM selling hardware, software and services together, because
most customers wanted to buy that way. But many customers do not need IBM's
integration capabilities anymore. More sophisticated buyers often prefer
to disaggregate their hardware and software purchases, minimising costs
with tailor-made solutions. Because of this, a company should always focus
on understanding its customers' perceptions of value. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> You are making an important point. In emerging markets
there has been a clear trend for total solutions in our infrastructure markets.
We have to satisfy these customer requirements and our capability to offer
complex turnkey solutions also requires that structure. If the market turned
in a different direction and wanted... to buy its own products and put all
that together with local engineering capabilities, we may be able to afford
a demerged structure because these coherences are then no longer necessary.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> Why did conglomerates create themselves in the first place?
Is this a stage that businesses need to go through? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Von Koerber</B> Compare it with what happened after eastern<B> </B>Europe
opened up. The companies we found were clumsy operations supplying food,
kindergartens, the whole trimmings. But the politicians or former state
owners in these emerging markets have always understood that this to disappear
if the company is to be privatised and we have never experienced any pressure
to take over the fossils, gadgets and trimmings they have been carrying
for half a century. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> There are lots of different reasons why conglomerates were created.
If you look at the chemical industry, chemistry is a flywheel that throws
off opportunities you can apply to different marketplaces. By definition
there is a force driving an innovative, chemically based, science-based
business to diversify, because the opportunities get thrown off in every
direction. So managing that diversity is the responsibility of central management.
<BR>
<BR>
If you go to Japan, the existence of the <I>zaibatsu</I> [groups of Japanese
companies] is largely a social phenomena. They have nothing to do with technological
issues, or with some peculiar communist regime or early form of industrialisation.
Each country will have its own social history and each industry will have
its own technological drivers. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> Each industry has its own history. It is interesting to watch
industries that are experiencing the turbulence of deregulation. Take utilities
for example. In the '70s they diversified for the sake of diversification.
Then it was a fad. Many of them got hurt by their efforts as they tried
to compete in sectors about which they knew nothing. Now however, as they
face deregulation, many must diversify to survive. But this time around
it must be done strategically, building upon core competencies that can
help them to succeed. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> If management teams do nothing and just watch the world go by,
all businesses will diversify. By definition you will get an opportunity
to serve in different markets, or slightly different products. Sometimes
when you have to stop and look at the group, the right thing to do is to
leave it as it is. But often it is a mark of a management team that focuses
hard on the owner's best interests that causes demergers. <BR>
<BR>
Some groups stay together because it is just damn sensible: they cannot
go and get the business they need unless they stick together. Others stay
together because [despite] a dynamic that has made them diverse, there is
a built-in interest for the executives to keep a large empire. It is difficult
to think of a case where a company has demerged - other than forcibly
like IG Farben in Germany - for any other reason than to promote the
best interest of the owners. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> It is still not all that often that we find a management
team saying, &quot;We are going to take the next year to think about how
we should be structured, and demerger is an option we should considered
seriously&quot;? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> In Britain there is an expectation among institutional shareholders
that senior management has a responsibility to direct the group. The firm
ICI is a case in point. The work that had been done, reviewed by every board
member, led to a unanimous conclusion that the cost of complexity far outweighed
any synergies that were there. When the then ICI chairman Denys Henderson
announced that he was looking at the possibility of a demerger, Hanson was
already off the share register. Hanson's [takeover] threat had been defeated
months earlier without any problem. It had sold its shares and was gone.
Having dealt with [the outside threat] they could get on with dealing with
the long-term issue of company structure [and] a demerger took place in
1993. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> In answer to Orit's question, that is exactly what ITT Corporation
did. Rand Araskog - in his chairman's letter to ITT shareholders in
the 1993 annual report - said we were studying ways to restructure
our business along the lines of three groups which are now the three independent
companies. This can be contrasted with ITT in 1984-85, when people tried
to break it up from the outside. The threat passed and our share price improved.
At the time a study of our structure was announced it was in the high $70s
and when the board approved the separation it was nearly $110. If we add
up the pieces today, the share price is above $130. There has been a huge
change in equity valuations of the company. <BR>
<BR>
Through the '70s, ITT made its acquisitions under company CEO Harold Geneen
[at a time when] there was a prevalent belief that superior management could
do anything in any industry. If you look at this acquisition period, it
was clear that he was paying 10 times earnings for companies that later,
inside our company, were worth 20 times their earnings. Creating value was
self-perpetuating until there was a stumble in performance. <BR>
<BR>
After that, ITT went through a tremendous period of rationalisation which
culminated in 1986, in selling off hundreds of companies. The last major
transaction was the telecoms joint-venture with Alcatel - a masterstroke
by Rand Araskog. We were at the finishing stages of developing the system
12 digital telephone switch, the cost of which was tremendous. The cost
of the next generation product was prohibitive and there were too many players.
<BR>
<BR>
It was also Araskog's initiative to separate ITT into three companies -
a tremendous act of courage and vision. You have to justify demergers in
a way you do not have to justify acquisitions. Not only do you have to justify
to the shareholders, you have to justify to the tax authorities and others.
It takes a lot of of work. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gadiesh</B> And of course you have to justify it to the media since they
shape the perceptions of shareholders and employees alike. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> Picking up your point about business culture, there is a huge
pressure on the guy at the top making that decision. But we are seeing a
trend, a natural evolution. Corporations are so large, the pieces that need
to be separated are not necessarily small enough just to auction off. If
you analyse it from a fiscal point of view, a demerger is often the best
way to separate the large pieces. Management teams are going to be put under
pressure to stop and look at their groups to see whether they are actually
structured in the best interests of the shareholders. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Engen</B> The reason for the trend is the change in the capital markets
which has increased public disclosure. The <I>chaebols</I>, for example,
will see this at some point in 10 years, or it may be 20. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Mayo</B> There are pressures from sophisticated institutional shareholders
who ask if you are structuring the ownership of their assets in the most
efficient way. And that is the question that boards are going to have to
address. Some companies have already done so. Others like ABB did not need
to demerge because it was inappropriate. But we will see an increasing flow
of demergers. Institutional shareholders are right to be asking these questions,
and the management teams that do nothing about it deserve to get what is
coming.<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-61</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B007-216</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.95/em.95.12/em.95.12.6.html 194.217.137.48 19970114151848 text/html 13087
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:17:52 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 10:48:06 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12849
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:December 1995
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:December 1995
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
December 1995
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>INVESTORS POLL</H3>
<H2>
<B>Resilient emerging markets</B>
</H2>

<H4>Emerging markets are still attractive to investors after last winter's rout. <I>Euromoney'</I>s poll of investors shows that volatility has not changed investors' attitudes to emerging markets &#173; they still like the unbeatable fundamentals. By Charles Piggott</H4>

<P>
Investors in emerging markets may have had a rough ride this year but <I>Euromoney</I>'s poll of 86 chief investment officers shows they are once again bullish on emerging markets. Of those polled, 70% indicate that they intend to increase their investment in emerging markets, while only 1% intend to cut back  over the next 12 months.

<P>
Confidence that emerging markets will out- perform the rest of the markets next year is high despite a poor performance in 1995. "Unless the markets are hit by another crisis, we could see emerging market indices rise 80%, as they did in 1993," says one investor. 

<P>
Lower interest rates in the US, Japan and Europe, together with slowing economic growth and forthcoming elections are some of the reasons investors cite for expanding into emerging markets. Investors are looking beyond the developed countries for higher returns. 

<P>
Real GDP predictions for most developed countries range between 2% and 3%, whereas economic growth in most south-east Asian countries is expected to be between 7% and 8%, in eastern Europe between 3% and 5%, and in Latin America, excluding Mexico and Argentina, between 4% and 6%.

<P>
"Since the Mexican crisis, investors have become more aware of how emerging market economies work," says Tom Tull, chief executive officer of Gulfstream Global Investors, "and the fundamentals still look good." According to Tull: "Emerging markets account for 86% of the world's population, 22% of GDP, 76% of land mass, and yet only 3% of world investment."

<P>
<B>Latin American potential</B>

<P>
Many of the countries which suffered most when investors fled emerging-market risk in the first months of 1995 are now the most attractive. "Some of the best investments this spring were in the countries which fell furthest during the crisis," says one US chief investment officer who bought heavily into the chaos. Other investors are kicking themselves for missing out when the Mexican stock market doubled between March and July.

<P>
Although investors are still worried about Mexico, Argentina and Peru, many still plan to invest more there in the next 12 months, according to the poll. Investors believe that compared to other emerging markets, Latin America &#173; particularly Mexico &#173; may now be undervalued. In Mexico, 45% of investors plan to increase holdings while only 12% plan to scale back. But the real star in Latin America is Brazil &#173; 48% of the investors who already hold Brazilian securities wish to increase their investment, while not one of those polled plans to decrease holdings in Brazil.

<P>
Confidence in Asian countries was lower. Although Hong Kong comes out as investors' favourite emerging-market country, high economic growth has not attracted as many investors to other Asian countries. Malaysia ranks lower than Mexico and Brazil while Thailand, the Philippines, China and Indonesia all rank lower than Argentina. Investors were least confident in Malaysia where 15%  of those currently invested intend to decrease their exposure during the next year.

<P>
Eastern Europe does well in the poll. Poland and Hungary rank above India while the Czech Republic ranks above Peru, Colombia and South Africa. Rapid privatization has given investors increased access to eastern European stocks. The poll indicates that investors are hungry for more. Of the investors polled, 10% plan to start investing in Hungary, 8% in Poland, 8% in the Czech Republic and 8% in Russia. 

<P>
Locally-listed shares are the most popular form of investment in most emerging markets.  The exception is the Middle East where investors are more likely to circumvent local stock markets by using ADRs or GDRs.

<P>
Israel attracts the most attention from investors planning to make their first foray into a new emerging-market. Twelve percent of fund managers plan to start investing in Israel in the next year.


<BR><BR><BR>


<H3>
<B>How investors already invest</B>
</H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.95.12.6.1.gif" WIDTH=168 HEIGHT=215>



<BR><BR><BR>


<H3>
<B>How investors changed their emerging </B>
</H3>
<H3>
<B>market exposure during 1995</B>
</H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.95.12.6.2.gif" WIDTH=168 HEIGHT=214>



<BR><BR><BR>


<H3>
<B>...and how they expect it to change in </B>
</H3>
<H3>
<B>the next 12 months</B>
</H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.95.12.6.3.gif" WIDTH=168 HEIGHT=214>



<BR><BR><BR>


<H3>
<B>Investors' plans for the next year</B>
</H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.95.12.6.4.gif" WIDTH=528 HEIGHT=267>



<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>How fund managers invest in</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD><B>Latin America</B></TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Locally listed shares</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">54</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>ADRs/GDRs</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">50</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Country funds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">37</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Eurobonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">20</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Brady bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">17</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Yankee bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>144A debt</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">4</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Local bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>How fund managers invest in</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Asia</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Locally listed shares</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">56</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>ADRs/GDRs</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">52</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Country funds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">38</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Eurobonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">16</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Brady bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">9</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Loans</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">4</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Domestic bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">4</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Yankee bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>144A debt</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">2</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>How fund managers invest in</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>eastern Europe</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Locally listed shares</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">50</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>ADRs/GDRs</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">35</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Country funds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">23</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Brady bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">9</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Eurobonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">8</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Loans</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">4</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Yankee bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>144A debt</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">3</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Domestic bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>How fund managers invest in the</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Middle East</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>ADRs/GDRs</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">20</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Locally listed shares</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">16</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Country funds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">8</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Eurobonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">2</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Brady bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">2</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>How fund managers invest in</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Africa</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Locally listed shares</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">34</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>ADRs/GDRs</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">25</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Country funds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">12</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Eurobonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">4</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Yankee bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Brady bonds</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Loans</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Local currency</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">1</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Rising stars: countries attracting the </B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD><B>most 'new' investors</B></TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD><B><I>Investors planning to invest</I></B></TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Israel</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">10</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Hungary</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">9</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>China</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">8</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Poland</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">7</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Czech Republic</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">7</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Russia</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">7</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Slovak Republic</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Jordan</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Kuwait</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>South Africa</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">5</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Ecuador</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">5</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Morocco</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">5</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2 ALIGN="RIGHT"><B>Next year's losers: investors intending </B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>to decrease their investment</B></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Malaysia  </TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">10</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Mexico</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">8</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Argentina</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">8</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Hong Kong</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Indonesia</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">6</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Peru</TD> <TD ALIGN="RIGHT">5</TD> </TR><P>
</TABLE>

<BR><BR><BR>


<P>
<B>Methodology</B>

<P>
<I>Euromoney</I> polled institutional investors and fund managers by telephone and by fax at the beginning of November. Chief investment officers were asked whether their investment in emerging markets had increased, decreased or remained the same since the beginning of 1995. They were also asked to predict how their investment in each country is likely to change in the next 12 months and to specify what type of instruments they currently buy. In total we received 86 replies representing total funds of $876 billion, $57 billion of which are invested in emerging markets.

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-62</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B002-73</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.03/em.96.03.2.html 194.217.137.48 19970114145840 text/html 31889
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:57:35 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 06 Nov 1996 14:12:07 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 31653
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: March 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: March 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00004500 Secondary Markets, Equity -->
<!--00004700 Stock Exchanges -->
<!--00008400 United Kingdom -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
March 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE </H3>
<p>
<H2>Who shot Michael Lawrence? </H2>
<p>
<H4>At a parliamentary inquiry on February 28, Michael Lawrence, former
chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, told how the board fired him
eight weeks earlier &quot;without warning&quot;. Was he so terrible to deal
with, or did some board members see him as a threat to their continued enjoyment
of privileged advantage? Stephanie Cooke reports </H4>
<font size=3>
<p>
Michael Lawrence, recently ousted chief executive of the London Stock Exchange,
once made a proud boast. &quot;I can speak,&quot; he said, &quot;faster
than most people think.&quot; On January 4 he put his eloquence to the test
- and failed. <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence had just learned that the exchange's board was considering his
future. He asked for, and obtained, permission to explain why he should
keep his job<B>.</B> He obviously wasn't convincing. A vote was taken after
he left the room, then exchange chairman John Kemp-Welch briefly explained
the meeting's decision. &quot;He was out in 15 minutes,&quot;<B> </B>recalls
a source close to Lawrence. &quot;He was summarily dismissed.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Although Lawrence didn't know it, Kemp-Welch had called the non-executive
board members the day before the meeting to inform them that the exchange's
appointments and remuneration committee had recommended that he go. It happened
that three of the committee's four members - top officials from BZW, Merrill
Lynch, and SBC Warburg - had adamantly opposed a proposal which Lawrence
had been pushing, to alter radically trading practices in London by moving
to an order-driven system. &quot;I think what you saw on the third and fourth
of January was a massive coup,&quot; Lawrence told the House of Commons'
treasury committee last month. <BR>
<BR>
A treasury official had put it to him even more succinctly: &quot;That's
a real stacked deck, Michael.&quot; The &quot;stacked deck&quot; included
Donald Brydon deputy chief executive of BZW; Michael Marks, deputy chairman
of Merrill Lynch International; and Nicholas Verey, managing director, corporate
finance, SBC Warburg. (Verey has been temporarily replaced in his stock
exchange duties by David Wenman, global head of training, because of illness.)
<BR>
<BR>
Lawrence felt betrayed by Kemp-Welch. He told the committee that the chairman
had supported his efforts and that he had even remarked to Lawrence towards
the end of 1995 that &quot;every time we've been faced with a strategic
decision the market-makers have been wrong. We must not let them be again.&quot;
Moreover, at his final meeting with Kemp-Welch, the only reason given for
his dismissal was that the board had lost confidence in him. &quot;I asked
him for an elaboration at the time and received no elaboration,&quot; Lawrence
said. <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence had been in his job for less than two years. What had gone so terribly
wrong? <BR>
<BR>
Talk to the players closest to the situation and a story emerges in which
the sides are so split, it is difficult to know whom to believe. It is possible
that a certain myopia in Lawrence's make-up left him unable to see that
what he regarded as &quot;openness&quot; and &quot;consultation&quot; was
viewed as just the opposite by important factions on the exchange's board.
Yet the board itself failed to communicate to Lawrence its mounting dissatisfaction.
It is no small irony, as one MP on the committee noted, that the brusque
executive qualities so admired in the City when it comes to streamlining
industry were found somewhat less palatable when applied in its own parlours.
<BR>
<BR>
Interestingly, Lawrence himself does not attribute his dismissal to the
proposed shake-up in trading practices. Rather, he told the parliamentary
committee: &quot;My own conclusion is that the real issue was the fact that
we were increasingly managing the exchange in a commercial and professional
way.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
And he rejected outright the accusation that he wasn't listening to board
members, suggesting that the problem was that he was listening to too many
market users rather than just the dominant members: &quot;I believe the
quality of a chief executive is that he listens to all the market participants
and not just to some of them.&quot; Furthermore, he warned that if the exchange
continued to be dominated by big market-making firms opposed to change then
it would fall apart within two years. <BR>
<BR>
When Lawrence took his post in February 1994, the exchange's morale and
reputation were at an all-time low. His predecessor, Peter Rawlins, had
resigned after being blamed for &#163;400 million of losses on the development
of the Taurus settlement system. The exchange had too many staff and its
revenue base was rapidly shrinking. Most seriously, it faced rivalry from
Tradepoint, an electronic trading system that had applied for government
approval to operate as an exchange. This demonstrated that institutional
investors could, in theory, deal directly with one another. The dominance
of market-makers and brokers, the core of the exchange, could no longer
be taken for granted. <BR>
<BR>
As far as the exchange's board was concerned, Lawrence must have seemed
the ideal person to turn things around. As chief financial officer at insurer
Prudential Corporation, he had formed good contacts with the Bank of England
(BoE) and the Confederation of British Industry. Earlier, he had spent 15
years at accountants Price Waterhouse, where he had forged links with the
government through the firm's privatization work. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Undiplomatic service</B> <BR>
<BR>
At Price Waterhouse in the early 1980s Lawrence worked closely with Nicholas
Ridley, a cantankerous government minister who approached privatization
with a hard-headedness even some devotees of Margaret Thatcher found unsettling.
Like Lawrence, Ridley was not noted for diplomacy. But Lawrence admired
Ridley as a man who achieved his objectives in the face of extraordinary
opposition. One of those achievements, in which Lawrence was closely involved,
was shutting down east London's docks. Lawrence also helped him privatize
the bus industry. <BR>
<BR>
At the Pru, Lawrence had been instrumental in helping chief executive Mick
Newmarch reorganize the company, shedding its loss-making estate-agency
business and other peripheral activities and bringing in new management.
<BR>
<BR>
The pugnacious, controversial Newmarch, who had himself been CFO before
becoming chief executive, saw Lawrence as his logical successor. But Lawrence
believed he would have to wait too long for that to happen. &quot;There
was something about him that wanted to be number one,&quot; says an acquaintance.
It was probably that, as much as anything else, which persuaded him to put
his name up for the stock exchange job. <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence clearly saw himself as a manager of change. But bargaining with
union officials or company employees was one thing; the London stock exchange,
which has been stumbling towards change for more than a decade, wanted a
softer, less hurried approach. Lawrence moved aggressively from the start.
<BR>
<BR>
The most controversial issue facing the exchange - and the issue that crystallized
opposition to Lawrence - was the move to introduce an order-driven system
to supplement or even supplant the traditional quote-driven market (where
market-makers undertake to provide continuous two-way prices). Such a move
could, as exchange members are only too aware, amount to a second Big Bang,
an overhaul of trading practices so radical that market-making would no
longer be central to the London market. With trades matched and executed
electronically, would commission-charging intermediaries be needed at all?
<BR>
<BR>
The exchange had been moving in this direction since before Lawrence arrived,
and many factions, including Andersen Consulting - the firm hired by Rawlins
to overhaul the existing system - thought an order-driven market was inevitable.
But the idea was to move towards it gradually. This would be accomplished
by developing the Sequence programme, an electronic trading platform intended
to bring together all the exchange's information, trading and reporting
systems. The project was launched in October 1993. Since then, five of Sequence's
six phases have been completed, including a service called Seats Plus, which
allows for remote entry of exposure orders and the capability to execute
those electronically. <BR>
<BR>
The most difficult decision concerned the sixth and final phase, in which
the existing Seaq (Stock Exchange Automated Quotation) and Seaq International
systems would be replaced by the new platform in August 1996, the month
the new settlement system, Crest, was scheduled to start. The fundamental
question was, could the two systems operate side-by-side? If not, what would
happen to market-makers? If so, what value would market-maker prices have
next to prices based on last orders? Or would the new order-driven system
simply be available for the most actively traded shares, while market-makers
posted prices in other shares? And how would block trades be executed? The
exchange has been grappling with these questions for more than a year. It
now seems clear, however, that there is virtually no support for a hybrid
approach, at least among market-makers. <BR>
<BR>
When Lawrence took over, Andersen Consulting had reached a crossroads. It
needed to know whether or not the new system should include the capability
for order-matching. Lawrence put it to the board at a meeting in April 1994.
&quot;We said you'd be daft not to put it [order-matching] in, so we'd have
it there,&quot; says Scott Dobbie, chairman of NatWest Securities. Dobbie
himself is not a board member but has been closely involved in the decision-making.
The members agreed with little hesitation that the capability should be
installed, but on condition that the question of activation be brought to
them again in the later part of 1995 and that there should be firm proposals
as to how it would be used. <BR>
<BR>
Meanwhile, Lawrence started making the rounds. He began reshaping the executive,
recruiting fresh talent and moulding it more to the model of a real company.
He put full-time exchange executives in charge of practitioner committees,
in order to improve lines of communication, and widened the consultation
process by soliciting opinions from outsiders - in particular US institutional
investors. &quot;We were moving away from a club. We were moving to a properly
directed organization,&quot; he told the committee. After nine months with
no chief executive - it took that long to find a suitable and willing candidate
to take on the job - the City seemed willing to give him a chance. &quot;We
thought he was a breath of fresh air,&quot; says Dobbie. <BR>
<BR>
But Lawrence had a tough job ahead of him. In the 10 years since Big Bang,
institutions' investing power had increased dramatically. At the same time,
virtually all the market-making firms had been taken over by big banks,
or were about to be - and the markets these banks dealt in were becoming
more closely connected. The stock exchange was only one part of a much bigger,
more complex picture, and many thought the cost of doing business through
it was too high. Posted prices had become far less indicative of the real
prices at which most shares changed hands. The exchange itself maintained
that 60% of bargains above &#163;10,000 were executed &quot;behind the screen&quot;
- that is, at prices at, or better than, the buy and sell prices on traders'
Seaq screens. And while market-makers could offload positions through their
inter-dealer broker (IDB) market, which offered much tighter prices, institutional
investors and other dealers were left out in the cold. <BR>
<BR>
Many firms saw that change was inevitable, but the degree of support for
it varied. For some, the move toward an order-driven market made sense.
Not only were most large orders executed behind the screen; for many of
them, equity trading was only part of a whole range of interrelated activities,
such as derivatives sales and trading and corporate finance. They might
make better use of capital if it wasn't tied up making continuous markets.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Spreads too wide to bear</B> <BR>
<BR>
Added to this pressure was the fact that European trading was migrating
back to the continent as exchanges there began to modernize. Between 1990
and 1994 quoted spreads on Seaq International roughly doubled. By October
1995, the situation had got so bad that the London exchange was forced to
impose new limits on quoted spreads. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Essentially, dealers have abandoned their market-making commitments
to the system,&quot; said Benn Steil in a recent study of European equity
markets for the Royal Institute of International Affairs. &quot;Pro forma
quotes are posted merely to keep within exchange rules and to advertise
a dealer's availability. Many London trading houses continue to commit significant
capital to European equity dealing, but competitive prices will now generally
be made only over the phone.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence saw himself as a man with a simple task: &quot;To move the exchange
into the new world,&quot; he says. With the launch of Tradepoint in September
1995, the exchange had finally lost its monopoly. &quot;That was the catalyst
that Lawrence was hooked on to,&quot; says a leading market-maker. Lawrence
was blunt about the problems, telling people that the yellow strip of buy-sell
prices on Seaq screens represented &quot;the worst prices on display&quot;.
He also had to tackle the problem of shrinking revenues: about one-third
of the exchange's annual operating costs were covered by settlements, a
business that is likely to migrate to the BOE with the onset of Crest. <BR>
<BR>
Nevertheless, the tradition of risk-taking has for so long been associated
with market-making that to hear some traders talk about it, the one can't
exist without the other. And, they asked, why effectively open the IDB market
to outsiders? Smith New Court, a conservative firm with a long tradition
in market-making (now owned by Merrill Lynch), was said to have put up stiff
resistance to the change, probably worried that its role would disappear.
BZW has a slightly different problem. Its profitable, proprietary electronic
trade-matching system (used mainly for retail business) reaps the benefits
of the touch - the spread between the buy and sell prices posted on Seaq
- which averages some 0.7% to 0.8%. That spread would be significantly reduced
in an order-driven system and such a system would pose a threat to its own.
<BR>
<BR>
The question of how Lawrence handled the reforms was as much of an issue
as the reforms themselves. He upset many traditionalists simply because
he did not fit into their &quot;club&quot;. He went to a state-funded school
and was not of the conventional upper-class City mould - unlike, say, John
Kemp-Welch, the stock exchange chairman who helped pick Lawrence and was
later to dismiss him. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Tenacity but little tact</B> <BR>
<BR>
It was never going to be possible to satisfy all 350 exchange members, but
Lawrence at least had to aim to get a consensus among the bigger firms.
For this he needed diplomacy as much as tenacity. Unfortunately, he lacked
the former. &quot;That was where Michael was weak,&quot; says a business
acquaintance. &quot;He is basically shy, but he's learned to cover that
shyness with a high-quality mind. He does not suffer fools gladly; nor is
he a political animal.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In his last annual report, Lawrence claimed to listen to practitioners:
&quot;I have encouraged greater input from users,&quot; he wrote, &quot;and
this has resulted in improved consultation lines. A policy of greater openness
has made decision-making considerably easier.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Others, however, say he took a dictatorial approach to decision-making that
left little room for practitioners' input. Views would be aired at committee
meetings, then promptly ignored, they maintain. In a dispute last September,
Lawrence issued a libel writ against David Jones, chief executive of retail
electronic trading system ShareLink, allegedly without consulting the chairman.
&quot;It was a symptom of a very impetuous man,&quot; says an executive
of a leading market-making firm. <BR>
<BR>
It's said that at board meetings he would wait until the end and push changes
through without allowing time for consultation. &quot;On several occasions
things came up at the end of a board meeting where he would say <I>he</I>
was setting the agenda,&quot; maintains an official. <BR>
<BR>
A relatively minor instance was when Lawrence announced a reporting change
affecting international trades involving London. This angered firms with
a lot of international business, which regarded it as cumbersome and unnecessary.
&quot;Morgan Stanley was apoplectic,&quot; the official says. That wasn't
the only way Lawrence upset people. &quot;He'd be very helpful and friendly,
then suddenly he'd make this outrageous remark,&quot; says another leading
market-maker. At a formal dinner in the City, a quip allegedly offended
Bank of England (BoE) governor Eddie George, who was seated nearby. <BR>
<BR>
Behind the scenes, both BoE director Ian Plenderleith and Kemp-Welch encouraged
Lawrence to press ahead with change. &quot;The BoE was always for this change;
Ian was gung-ho,&quot; says a source. Plenderleith believes market-making
firms will continue to have an important role in the secondary market if
London is to remain the &quot;market of choice&quot; in Europe, simply because
they will provide liquidity. &quot;Half the battle is to try to explain
that,&quot; he says. &quot;A lot of market-makers are perfectly happy to
change. They're not making a lot of money.&quot; Likewise, Kemp-Welch, with
whom Lawrence had a &quot;working relationship&quot;, was presenting no
obstacles. So the executive markets team, led by Giles Vardey, advanced
the Sequence programme, travelling widely to demonstrate how it could work.
It met with a less than enthusiastic response from some of the big British
firms, although US institutional investors and trading firms such as Salomon
Brothers welcomed the prospect of change, City sources say. <BR>
<BR>
The biggest immediate challenge to the exchange was how to incorporate an
order-driven system while retaining market-making. Privately, many of those
working on the system weren't convinced it was possible, including Andersen
Consulting, but the point was to keep the dialogue going and to keep the
members happy as far as possible. &quot;It's no secret that for us to run
a marketplace we have to satisfy our member firms,&quot; says Vardey. <BR>
<BR>
Trying to satisfy all sides was already difficult. To the annoyance of some
market-makers, the exchange was also trying to please non-members. Among
others, Lawrence was consulting US institutional investors. &quot;We know
some US institutional investors were not happy with the UK system,&quot;
Vardey says &quot;They didn't understand the market-maker system. They felt
it was stacked against them.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
This was like a red rag to a bull. Many market-makers felt the exchange
had gone too far: some of the institutions were clients of member firms.
Lawrence was accused of putting relationships at risk, though Vardey and
others say this is unfair. &quot;The issue that somehow we shouldn't be
talking to people who use the marketplace is just silly,&quot; he says.
&quot;They [US institutions] clearly are an important force, just as in
the early 1980s the biggest factor in Europe was the UK institutions.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Lawrence felt he was on a &quot;knife-edge&quot; and that &quot;it was really
a question of whether the big market-makers could muscle enough firepower&quot;
to thwart the move toward order-driven markets, a source says. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Straight talking at table</B> <BR>
<BR>
A dinner attended by Lawrence and some of his colleagues, with BZW chairman
Peter Middleton, was particularly unpleasant, the source says. &quot;He
[Middleton] was saying that change was inevitable but that it wasn't in
BZW's interest. He was very straight about it.&quot; Lawrence's critics
say he could have done more to persuade other market-makers that change
would not necessarily mean extinction. But questions were also being raised
whether Kemp-Welch himself couldn't be doing more to support Lawrence's
efforts. &quot;He's a broker. He never sought to broker it,&quot; says the
source. Similar criticisms are made of Kemp-Welch's relationship with his
board. &quot;He would joke in private about what lousy decision-makers [the
board] were,&quot; says the source, &quot;but there was no effort to mediate.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The reform campaign intensified in the run-up to the meeting on November
30 that was to decide whether to move forward with Sequence. Speaking at
a private gathering of City lawyers and investment bankers in mid-November,
Lawrence warned that without changing the current system they risked losing
international business. &quot;We have to reposition the exchange to maximize
its potential in an increasingly competitive world. If this is a new chapter,
we have to be clear about where we're going. No stone can be left unturned,
no cow can be too sacred.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
As the debate continued, the exchange's position in relation to the rest
of the Europe began to look weaker and weaker. Rudolf Mueller, chairman
of UBS UK and the exchange's only continental non-executive director, had
left the board in disgust in July 1995; in early November he spoke publicly
for the first time about his reasons. <BR>
<BR>
Mueller said the exchange had missed its chance to become Europe's central
share-dealing system by relying for too long on Seaq International. With
new EU rules allowing &quot;remote membership&quot; of European bourses
by members sited in other EU countries, investment banks in London could
execute business in Paris, Frankfurt and other European cities. <BR>
<BR>
Mueller's remarks followed, by a week, NatWest's announcement that it would
reduce its use of Seaq International in favour of local bourses, a move
that had already been made by UBS and other leading investment banks. <BR>
<BR>
Then the BoE weighed in with a call for the exchange to cooperate with other
European bourses to facilitate cross-border dealing. &quot;It is up to the
London Stock Exchange to decide whether it would be best served by a 'beat
them or join them' attitude to continental exchanges,&quot; BoE executive
director Pen Kent said at the inaugural dinner of the City Group for Smaller
Companies. <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence wasn't opposed to cooperation; he involved the exchange in a number
of reciprocal visits with foreign counterparts, and said that &quot;our
joint goal should be to facilitate cross-border markets and to simplify
rules which may obstruct free trade&quot;. But he and the BoE saw the key
to London's success in a strong central market; and that in turn relied
on successful implementation of the Sequence project, still on track for
completion during the summer of 1996. <BR>
<BR>
But by then complaints about Lawrence were being channelled to Kemp-Welch,
who shared an outer office space with the chief executive. While board members
were pleased with many of Lawrence's accomplishments - he had introduced
AIM (a market for smaller-company shares), a shorter settlement period and
a global depository receipt programme - they were deeply unhappy about the
manner in which he made decisions. Theie main concern was Sequence, but
the ShareLink suit and other smaller episodes were also irritants. One board
member charged that: &quot;He is an exceptionally difficult character and
was not accustomed to working with the board.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Personality or policy?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Lawrence's supporters maintain that the issue was not his personality but
the fact that he was pushing through with Sequence. They say that the big
market-making firms were making a last-ditch effort to stave off reform.
Where the truth lies is difficult to say. With preparations under way for
the crucial November 30 board meeting, Vardey had prepared a paper that
must have made stark reading. Among other things, it said that 17% of the
market value was already traded through an order book provided by IDBs,
and that more than 30% of the volume of trading (essentially the retail
market) was already traded on an automated basis through order-routing systems
provided by proprietary networks operated by member firms (much of this
presumably through BZW). <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Many large trading houses at the core of the system,&quot; the paper
said, &quot;have a defined list of clients to whom they wish to risk capital:
these are also clients who are the most important for primary and new-product
distribution and significant order flow. There is an increasing reluctance
by those houses to risk that capital on a wider basis to the entire marketplace:
the returns are inadequate or negative. In this environment, market-makers
prefer to unwind risks anonymously through the IDBs' order-matching systems
rather than display it to all comers.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
By then, the move towards Sequence's completion was all but unstoppable.
At the board meeting Lawrence warned that the decision over how it would
be implemented would have to be undertaken after consultation. It was agreed
that a consultation document would be prepared for release in January and
that a committee would be formed to review the comments and make recommendations
to the board on March 21. BZW, Merrill and SBC Warburg all registered strong
opposition to proceeding with the order-driven system, saying more time
was needed to study costs and other issues, said Lawrence. Nevertheless,
the board voted to proceed. <BR>
<BR>
Despite the decision to proceed, there was so much discontent in the market
over <I>how</I> the changes would be implemented that a group of market-makers
agreed to formally protest to Kemp-Welch. They decided this should be done
by Lord Rockley, chairman of Kleinwort Benson, and Martin Owen, chief executive
of NatWest Markets. <BR>
<BR>
According to Kemp-Welch, the meeting in mid-December concerned Lawrence
only peripherally: &quot;The meeting with Martin Owen and Lord Rockley had
been asked for by major member firms to act as a messenger to relay their
concerns about their fear of lack of involvement in the consultation process.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The result of the meeting was to install three practitioners on the new
board committee set up to oversee the Sequence consultation process. &quot;This
question of personalities, and Michael Lawrence in particular, virtually
wasn't mentioned,&quot; insists Kemp-Welch, &quot;and there was no connection
between that meeting and what subsequently happened.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
That, of course, was the board meeting on January 4 and Lawrence's unsuccessful
defence. Then came the blunt official statement: &quot;Following a board
meeting today, the stock exchange announces that its board, having lost
confidence in its chief executive, Mr Michael Lawrence, has required his
resignation with immediate effect.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Misleading bonus</B> <BR>
<BR>
Concern about Lawrence had been building for months. A leading board member
says that &quot;the die was already cast. He would be a pretty stupid man
if he hadn't seen the winds blowing.&quot; Yet Lawrence apparently had never
received a direct warning that his job was on the line; in fact, he was
awarded a &#163;100,000 ($155,000) bonus in 1995. As far as Lawrence was
concerned, both Kemp-Welch and the BoE's Plenderleith supported his agenda.
He told one City editor just before Christmas that the fact he had got Sequence
approved meant the City was finally going his way. <BR>
<BR>
Shocked by Lawrence's sacking, the treasury committee launched an investigation
into the affair. Committee members were sharply critical of the exchange.
Conservative MP Quentin Davies accused it of complacency and said it was
suffering &quot;something of an identity crisis&quot;. The committee chairman,
Conservative MP Sir Tom Arnold, said the panel would have to consider whether
it was necessary to impose legislative changes on the exchange to ensure
that trading practices were &quot;fair&quot; as required by the Financial
Services Act. <BR>
<BR>
At the very least, there were suggestions it might ask the Office of Fair
Trading (OFT) to investigate charges that the exchange is anti-competitive
because of the dominance of a few market-makers. Last November the OFT requested
changes in the reporting of big trades after finding the rules contained
significant anti-competitive elements. Lawrence told the committee: &quot;I
received no warning at any time that I did not enjoy [the board's] support,
although we were all aware of the opposition of certain market-makers.&quot;
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-63</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B026-147</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.11/em.96.11.7.html 194.217.137.48 19970114141530 text/html 21900
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:14:35 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 12 Dec 1996 17:52:52 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 21661
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: November 1996
</DOCHDR>


<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: November 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
November 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3><B>ISRAEL</B></H3>

<H2><B>Exposed, illiquid, lacking in depth</B></H2>

<H4>
<B>Government dominance of Israel's capital markets leaves state funding heavily exposed to outflows like the recent mass redemption of savings in provident funds. It has also hampered the development of corporate bonds. Funding locally through the stock exchange is problematic since concentration of ownership has rendered equities illiquid. Charles Piggott reports on proposals to reform the system</B>
</H4>

<P>
Israel's local markets are going through a rough period. During the past four months the Bank of Israel has had to intervene repeatedly in the market to support the price of government bonds. Research published by Bank Hapoalim on August 1 compared the central bank's action to US Federal Reserve Bank intervention to preserve the financial system's liquidity in the 1987 crash. Central bank interventions, under the government's safety-net action, have already exceeded
IS1 billion ($305.8 million). 

<P>
The stock market has also had a difficult ride. Since the beginning of this year the Mishtanin index of the 100 most liquid shares traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange has fallen by 14.5%. Some Israeli investment funds have fallen by over 35%.

<P>
But jitters over Binyamin Netanyahu's recently formed coalition government and worries over a stalling Middle East peace process are not the only cause of the market's retreat. And, although the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange has been a popular destination for emerging market funds since Morgan Stanley included Israel in its index of emerging markets in March 1995, neither is it a foreign investor withdrawal that is bringing the market down. The Israeli stock and bond markets are still driven largely by local forces and the underlying problems are structural. Israel's capital market is dominated by a powerful banking sector. It lacks institutional investors. And liquidity on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange is poor. 

<P>
Following a crisis in the country's savings funds involving massive withdrawals, the government, worried by the prospect of a liquidity shortage, intervened in the bond markets in July to provide a safety net. The Bank of Israel announced that it would buy back between IS250 million and IS500 million of government bonds to meet fund redemptions.

<P>
But by the end of July central bank governor Jacob Frenkel had announced that the bank would buy up to "IS15 billion if necessary", in order to guarantee the liquidity of the financial system. 

<P>
In the wake of the crisis, the government is also considering how best to tackle wide-ranging reform of the capital markets. So far ideas have ranged from creating a single regulatory body to oversee the capital markets and a special economic court to adjudicate in cases of financial wrongdoing to the adoption of international accounting standards.

<P>
Conversations about Israel's capital markets in Tel Aviv, the headquarters of most of Israel's private sector, and Jerusalem, where the government has its seat, generally start with the problem of the savings funds. Provident funds (essentially redeemable pension funds) have posted negative returns for the last two years. "For years the funds registered a guaranteed return thanks to heavy subsidies from the government," says Shimon Ravid, chief financial officer of Bank Hapoalim, Israel's largest bank. "But as the government gradually reduced subsidies to the provident funds, managers were forced to invest in the stock market. But when the market started edging downwards at the beginning of 1994, fund redemptions began to rise as savers, accustomed to guaranteed returns above inflation, saw their investments falling for the first time in decades."

<P>
The problem of provident fund redemptions has been exacerbated by the Bank of Israel's aggressive stance on inflation, which has kept real interest rates at around 5%. Investors have simply switched out of their maturing provident funds and placed their money in high-yielding bank deposits.

<P>
<B>It's raining redemptions</B>

<P>
What started as a trickle of redemptions in 1994 has become an unstoppable torrent. In April and June this year, monthly redemptions of provident funds topped IS1 billion for the first time. In August the provident funds were hit by a staggering IS2.2 billion in redemptions.

<P>
Ravid describes the problem of provident fund redemptions as a "vicious circle". Weakening bond prices undermined the performance of the provident funds, causing investors to redeem their policies. To meet these redemptions fund managers sold heavily in the government bond market, further weakening bond prices and accelerating the rate of redemptions.

<P>
Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) research describes the Bank of Israel's intervention in the bond markets as "solely directed at patching up the symptoms rather than the causes". Although government bond prices remained stable throughout September, the government is still worried that further provident fund redemptions could trigger another wave of government bond sales. 

<P>
The government's announcement at the  end of July that it would set up a committee to recommend structural changes to the Israeli capital markets was a step in the right direction. Headed by David Brodet, director general of the treasury, the committee's main brief was to find ways to channel savings back into the local capital market. 

<P>
Israeli savers are sitting on more than $50 billion in liquid assets, equivalent to about 30% of the country's domestic savings. To encourage them to reinvest in the capital markets the Brodet committee's report recommends reweighting the tax structure to favour long-term investments and savings earmarked for retirement. But with real interest rates at around 5%, the proposals will offer little incentive to investors and fund managers to invest in a falling stock and bond market. 

<P>
Yoav Levy, managing director of Sahar Securities in Tel Aviv, says: "I had high hopes for the Brodet committee. But the 30-day timescale they gave for the report was unrealistic." Rather than seriously rethinking the structure of the markets, the commission appears to be bogged down in a political row over the taxation of short-term savings. Fresh in the minds of the population was Netanyahu's pre-election promise: "Read my lips. No new taxes." Even though the reformers suggest that taxing short-term savings is reweighting rather than increasing the tax burden, the reforms quickly became a highly politicized issue. 

<P>
Although the reforms have stumbled on the tax question, this looks like a temporary setback.

<P>
In an interview with <I>Euromoney, </I>Frenkel declared broad support for the proposals: "By and large I support the Brodet committee's recommendations &#173; especially those that aim at increasing the flow of long-term institutional savings through the capital market. In the past a large proportion of long-term institutional savings did not go through the capital market because the government has been providing bonds directly to pension funds which secured a real return. This is one reason why our capital markets have become too narrow. There are some other recommendations involving the tax structure of savings, but the discussion is still not complete". 

<P>
Part of the problem is the timing of the reforms. The government and leading bankers like Eitan Raff, chairman of Bank Leumi, Israel's second-largest bank by equity, are worried that a combination of a volatile market and a tax on short-term deposits could drive liquid deposits outside the financial system, possibly into consumer goods. (A drive down Tel Aviv's beach strip shows that it is no longer exports that are driving economic growth but consumer spending, largely on imports. "You can get any type of car here," boasts a taxi driver, as he points out that most cars on the strip bear this year's number plates.)

<P>
<B>Palliatives not panaceas</B>

<P>
But Tel Aviv's brokers think the government is using a macroeconomic excuse to sidestep politically sensitive issues. Election promises and an increasingly tense political situation surrounding the peace process have led to scepticism about the coalition government's ability to push through tough economic reforms. "Nobody cared about the structural problems in the markets until the provident fund crisis," says Levy at Sahar Securities. "But now they are trying to cure a cancer with aspirin." 

<P>
The Brodet committee has been criticized for ignoring the petition to bring in external management consultants. A Tel Aviv broker recalls a phone conversation with the committee in which he was asked: "What can McKinsey teach us about our own capital market?" 

<P>
Eventually the government must tackle the structural imbalances in the market. "The root of the problem lies in [government] bond supply," says David McWilliams, an analyst at UBS in London. "Falling government revenues and increasing funding requirements have put huge pressure on the fragile bond market." 

<P>
Israel's government bond market overshadows all other instruments traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Government domestic issues rose from IS9.3 billion in 1990 to IS23.2 billion in 1995. At the end of<B> </B>1995 the market capital of the government bond market was IS103.8 billion, compared with a corporate bond market of just IS8.1 billion and an equity market of IS96.5 billion. 

<P>
This oversupply of government bonds has distorted the market's pricing mechanism. "By issuing subsidized bonds the government has created a floor on the cost of funds of about 4.5% above inflation," says McWilliams. As a result world-class Israeli companies have been unable to compete for funds in the domestic market. Not one private-sector company tapped the domestic bond market in the whole of 1995 (see chart). As the Brodet committee's report puts it: "Arrangements that provide these players with subsidized, non-tradable government bonds ... deprive the capital market of a crucially needed inflow of sources for business-sector investments." Many Israeli companies have therefore chosen to list abroad and Israeli companies rank second, outdone only by Canadian companies, in foreign listings in New York. There are now over 80 Israeli companies listed abroad. 

<P>
The government, burdened by cost, wants to scale back its high-yield bond issues. But given that 95% of pension fund assets are invested in special high-yield bonds, any cuts will have to be explained carefully to the Israeli population. For the moment the markets are paying the price. Says one Tel Aviv broker: "It's right that the government has supported the pension funds, but it should not have used the market to do it." 

<P>
Radical changes are needed, but for the moment it's a case of evolution, not revolution. "It took 40 years for the Israelites to get from Egypt to Israel," quips a government official. "The question now is whether it's going to take us as long to reform the pension funds." The 30-day period given to Brodet's committee to deliver its recommendations did not give it enough time to come up with long-term solutions. Although its report considered longer-term reforms such as the creation of a single body to regulate the capital markets, and the creation of a court for economic affairs to specialize in cases involving securities, banking and insurance, these recommendations appear to have been put on hold. The report states: "In view of its wish to complete its work by its stipulated deadline, the committee preferred to overlook the broad question of the financial structure of the financial-services sector within this timeframe." The report suggests that another committee should be established to look at the crucial issue of "centralization" in the Israeli market.

<P>
Tel Aviv's non-bank brokers claim that the high level of centralization in the financial system has stifled competition in the markets. Says one brokerage director: "The banks used their capital to consolidate power. Their decision-making influence on companies is a real problem for the Israeli economy. I believe banks should own not 20% but 0% of non-financial companies."

<P>
In the words of the Brodet committee: "The bulk of market activity is controlled by the banks and their affiliated provident and mutual funds." What the report does not point out is that the government is still the most powerful shareholder in Israel's banks.

<P>
Although the government has tried to curb the influence banks wield outside the financial sector, the Israeli bank lobby remains powerful. (Israel's banks were set up along with the state of Israel to create a modern economy.) Bank Leumi was recently allowed to increase its stake in investment company Africa Israel to 56%, in a control battle, contrary to the government ruling that banks should reduce their stakes in non-financial companies below 20%. Although Leumi intends to sell the Africa Israel stake before the end of the year, the move was considered indicative of the continuing influence of Israeli banks. 

<P>
This concentration of ownership has made Israel's market illiquid. "It's a great market," says McWilliams, "but it's not traded enough." Most of the exchange-traded companies are closely held by majority investors. Something between 70% and 75% of shares of listed companies are thought to be held by families, banks or institutional funds. And 65% are held by controlling interests. This makes it a hard market to get into. "Raising a 10% stake in a company is not always easy," says Ronit Harel, vice-president of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Tel Aviv bankers joke that their investors don't sleep at night if they own less than 75% of the companies they invest in.

<P>
Encouraging provident funds to become active in the stock market would help increase liquidity. At the moment, less than 15% of the provident funds' assets are invested in equities. One problem is the size of the savings funds relative to equity market capitalization. Provident funds alone hold over IS90 billion in assets; the stock market has a capitalization of only IS96 billion. So the market is simply too shallow to accommodate the funds. Tzipi Samet, deputy commissioner of capital markets, insurance and savings says: "Every move the funds make affects the market." 

<P>
The Knesset has approved the first stage of a bill to break up the funds into smaller units. The idea of putting the funds' management contracts out to tender has also been discussed. Funds of a more manageable size would probably find it easier to invest in the local stock market. Samet is optimistic, arguing that "the reforms signal a move towards improving the structure of the market".

<P>
More foreign participation in the stock market would also help to create liquidity. US investment banks including Lehman Brothers, Salomon and Bankers Trust already have offices in Tel Aviv. According to UBS research, foreign investment makes up 10% of Israeli stock market investment.<B> </B>To encourage more foreign players, the Brodet committee recommends allowing foreign investors to become Tel Aviv Stock Exchange members. 

<P>
Getting the privatization programme back on track would also help bring foreign investors into the market. But in May the government cancelled a privatization issue for the third largest bank by assets, Mizrahi Bank, and it has been struggling to find buyers for Bank Hapoalim. First-half 1996 privatization receipts came to just $95 million, compared with $598 million for the whole of 1995 and $1.4 billion in 1992. 

<P>
One of Netanyahu's first moves as prime minister was to bring the Government Companies Authority, previously under the finance ministry, under the direct control of the prime minister's office. Tzipi Livni, the new head of the GCA and formerly a top Tel Aviv commercial lawyer, has been charged with rethinking the privatization programme. She has until the end of this month to come up with a new plan. Its successful relaunch could be just the fillip needed to restore confidence in Israel's struggling markets.&#009;*

<H3>
<B>Israel's government bonds crowd out other paper &#173; new issues 1993 to June 1996</B>
</H3>
<P>
<I>Since 1991 professor Jacob Frenkel has been Israel's central bank governor. But that is not his only role. He is also the government's chief economic counsel, and an economist in his own right. Before 1991 he was director of research at the IMF. Commentators on the Israeli economy say his willingness to remain as governor gave Binyamin Netanyahu's government the credibility it needed to survive the first few days following the election. </I>Euromoney <I>interviewed professor Frenkel in Jerusalem</I>

<P>
<B>It is rumoured that you were offered the job of finance minister in the new government. Is this true?</B>

<P>
Yes. 

<P>
<B>Why did you refuse it?</B>

<P>
I told the prime minister that I would prefer to stay in my position as governor [of the Bank of Israel]. I am not a political man and I prefer to be in a position where professionalism plays a greater role in daily decisions than it does in the role of minister of finance, who by the nature of his job has to make many more compromises. 

<P>
<B>Does your current position as Bank of Israel governor and economic adviser to the government involve a conflict of interest?</B>

<P>
Not necessarily. The law of the Bank of Israel, which was drafted many years ago, contains this dual role for the governor. He is, on the one hand, the governor of the Bank of Israel, in charge of monetary policy and supervision. But he is also the chief economic adviser to the government. There is an apparent duality here because to maintain independence from the political framework, one probably would like to have a governor who deals only with monetary policy without acting as an adviser to the government. On the other hand, in order to maintain greater relevance and impact on economic policy, we want the governor to be able to influence the government's policy decisions in the broader range of economic issues, particularly the budget. The art is in finding a balance between these two roles. 

<P>
Every governor has found his own balance. I think I have found my own satisfactory balance. One has to be clearly independent in the conduct of monetary policy, and, at times, ignore the role of government adviser. But when it comes to advising the government on cardinal issues I find it both challenging and useful to be able to express my views in the cabinet on the budget and on a broad range of economic issues, including structural reforms.

<P>
<B>Do you have more or less influence on economic policy than your predecessors?</B>

<P>
I can't make this assessment. Every governor has found his own way. During the past five years I have served Mr Shamir, the late Mr Rabin, Mr Peres and now Mr Netanyahu. Each prime minister operates differently, but I found the balancing act between the two roles of the governor as challenging as possible under each of those four prime ministers.


<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-64</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B035-181</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.07/em.96.07.9.html 194.217.137.48 19970114144938 text/html 35202
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:48:41 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 16:46:28 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 34967
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00017500 China -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
July 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3>CHINA</H3>
<H2>Reining in the free market </H2>
<H4>Securities regulator the CSRC was set up in 1992 to bring order to China's
new and frenetic securities markets. But its attempts to impose discipline
have met with mixed success. Turf battles with other authorities, political
agendas that take precedence over market-based listing criteria and high-profile
departures have made the regulator as raucous as the markets it was supposed
to tame. Sophie R&ouml;ell reports </H4>
The conservatives in the Chinese government have been cracking the whip
at the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), China's equivalent
of the US Securities &amp; Exchange Commission (SEC). The dismissal last
year of the CSRC's free-thinking chairman, Liu Hongru, and his replacement
by the more bureaucratically minded Zhou Daojiong - formerly at the
policy-making State Development Bank - was the most important sign
of a change in philosophy among China's leaders. <BR>
<BR>
This has had serious consequences for the agency, which was set up in 1992
to bring order to China's new securities market. Seven months after Liu's
dismissal, the resignation of the CSRC's general counsel and director of
public offerings, the US-educated and highly regarded Gao Xiqing, caused
alarm. One Beijing banker has referred to the &quot;rise and fall of the
CSRC&quot;, drawing attention to the way western-educated and open-minded
officials are giving way to state planners. <BR>
<BR>
The conservative approach imposed on the CSRC was quickly felt elsewhere
in the securities industry. The president of the Shanghai Stock Exchange,
Wei Wenyuan, who effectively founded the market and was renowned for his
gung-ho approach to its development, was replaced by a municipal planning
department official, Yang Xianghai. <BR>
<BR>
The message was clear: Beijing's mandarins were unhappy about the wild volatility
and speculative frenzy on domestic exchanges, a disaster for one of the
country's premier brokerages on the bond futures market and corruption scandals
involving government funds diverted into stock speculation. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;I think Zhu Rongji and others within the government were concerned
about what was happening in the markets,&quot; says a Beijing-based investment
banker. &quot;So Zhou Daojiong, who is a systems man and not terribly well
versed in the whole securities area, was sent in to make the whole approach
of the CSRC more conservative, to take it more slowly.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A change of personnel will not prove an instant remedy for what the conservatives
regard as distasteful disorder. In an immature stock market, where most
of the players are still unfamiliar with the written and unwritten rules,
order cannot simply be brought about overnight, however diligent the regulators.
And the official government view, that China's securities markets are still
only &quot;experiments&quot; in capitalism - the implication being
that if all does not go well they may be abandoned - further complicates
a task whose objectives are in any case vaguely defined. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There are still elements within the state council, within the government,
that don't think securities are such a hot idea,&quot; says John Crossman,
general manager at Jardine Fleming Securities in Shanghai. &quot;So the
CSRC is very sensitive to the fact that people are making a lot of money,
losing a lot of money, or the country's reputation is being tarnished. These
guys are in the hot seat. And one thing I know about markets is that some
people are going to make a lot of money, some people are going to lose a
lot of money and reputations are going to get tarnished. I think the CSRC
is at a bit of a loss. They're trying to get the genie back into the bottle:
they're asking themselves how they can control things; how they can ensure
that no one makes a lot of money, that no-one loses a lot of money and that
no one's reputation is going to get tarnished. They're trying to come up
with a solution that doesn't exist&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
The result is a regulatory body which sees its role extending far beyond
regulation. The CSRC is not there just to set up basic rules and see they
are obeyed. It has a variety of other tasks ranging from deciding which
companies are suitable for listing to intervening in the market if companies
are not performing well. The interference is not always welcomed. <BR>
<BR>
China's stock markets have grown extremely fast, so whatever the official
line on capitalism the regulators would have had difficulty keeping up.
As a World Bank report, entitled <I>China: the emerging capital market</I>,
points out, since 1990 when the Shanghai Stock Exchange and officially recognized
markets in securities were established, &quot;securities outstanding, and
the volume of trade, have grown exponentially to the point where China's
securities markets rank, in size, in the middle league of emerging markets&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
Regulation has always been one step behind growth. Share issues themselves
started almost spontaneously, with company stock being handed out unofficially
to employees and local citizens. Then the stock markets were set up, at
the initiative of local governments in Shanghai and Shenzhen. Other types
of exchanges, primarily bond trading centres, soon followed in other major
cities. By 1995 there were more than 25. <BR>
<BR>
Glorious days of speculation and volatility followed the take-off of the
stock market experiment. In May 1992, the Shanghai A share index achieved
the dubious distinction of doubling in a single day, rising from 617 to
1266. In August 1992 a riot ensued in Shenzhen as enthusiastic investors
scrambled for an issue that was 600 times oversubscribed. <BR>
<BR>
The Chinese authorities decided things were getting out of hand. The local
branches of the People's Bank of China (PBOC - the central bank) had
been charged with regulation but were clearly not up to the job. Hence the
formation in October 1992 of the State Council Securities Policy Committee
(SCSPC) and the CSRC, the SCSPC's executive arm. The SCSPC<B> </B>is chaired
by vice-premier for the economy Zhu Rongji and is a broad policy-making
body which includes most members of the state council (China's cabinet).
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Regulation after the event</B> <BR>
<BR>
The CSRC's regulatory purview has grown sporadically in reaction to events.
&quot;Since 1991 there has been a whole pile of domestic issues,&quot; says
Carl Walter, director and chief representative at CSFB in Beijing. &quot;In
typical Chinese fashion, they'll start off with a reform like this, but
they won't have given themselves the time to create a regulatory infrastructure
that would accommodate the rapid development that nobody really foresaw.
Because once the door was open, everyone wanted to list. So you had markets,
but they weren't regulated on the basis of a standard set of regulations,
but by the individual markets or by local governments.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In 1993 the A shares reserved for domestic investors were brought under
the CSRC. Authority over futures markets soon followed. But it was only
in the middle of 1995 that regulation of the 25 or so exchanges outside
the main markets of Shanghai and Shenzhen - mostly bond trading centres
- was put under formal CSRC control. Last January the B share market,
reserved for foreign investors and previously the responsibility of local
governments, followed suit (see box below). <BR>
<BR>
In China, securities regulation does not just mean investor protection.
The CSRC cannot model itself on the SEC and leave it at that. The role of
the securities regulator is all-embracing. In conjunction with the SCSPC,
its supervisor and other government agencies, it has a kind of overall responsibility
for the performance of the markets. <BR>
<BR>
The regulators are particularly active in the primary market. Meeting CSRC
criteria is not sufficient to ensure a listing. Companies are subject to
quotas of listings allocated by province. If a company wants to list on
a domestic exchange, it has to lobby provincial government departments in
its quest to qualify as one of those selected for a particular province's
quota. It is not always commercial criteria that determine which companies
are listed. Government priorities and, in many cases, political connections
are as relevant. <BR>
<BR>
Once these hoops have been jumped through, and provided criteria specified
by the CSRC have been met, the CSRC itself will usually give final approval,
and the company will be able to list A shares. But not always - in
July 1994, to counteract a long fall in the value of the A share index,
the CSRC put a moratorium on new issues. The idea was to raise prices by
restricting supply. As the World Bank puts it: &quot;This amounts to unwarranted
market manipulation of a major nature.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Ironically, this kind of activity has, if anything, contributed to market
volatility. The announcement of the moratorium on listings and a market-support
package led to a jump of 122% in the A share index in less than a week.
According to the World Bank report, rather than making things run more smoothly
&quot;the succession of regulatory events generated by the government&quot;
has been &quot;a major contributant [sic] to market volatility&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
The CSRC now admits the move was a mistake - it began approving listings
again at the end of 1995. But there have been no indications that it will
lessen government involvement in the listing process. The government, and
not the exchanges, will continue to determine which companies are listed.
<BR>
<BR>
For foreign investors, government involvement has been most obvious in overseas
listings. Although not subject to quotas, companies are selected for these
by the CSRC, in consultation with other central government agencies, and
announced in annual batches. <BR>
<BR>
In selecting companies, five-year plans and other government development
objectives play a key role. &quot;The State Planning Commission has issued
guidelines for foreign investment,&quot; says Nie Qing Ping, deputy director
of the CSRC's overseas listing department. &quot;What kind of industry is
being encouraged, what kind less encouraged - and that is an important
consideration in selecting a company.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The selection of companies to bring to market is apparently not considered
one of the roles of an investment bank. As a Shanghai-based banker points
out: &quot;This is very much a State Planning Commission, CSRC show. None
of this nonsense about letting an investment bank actually go out and find
a company, and bring it to them, and as long as they go through certain
hoops, of course they'll get approval. What do you mean: let those poor
ignorant savages do it by themselves? They don't know anything - they
don't know like us officials in Beijing, they might make a mistake.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Even more surprising have been the CSRC's attempts to exert control over
backdoor listings - Chinese companies registered overseas which then
try to list on an international exchange. In one case the CSRC even asked
the US SEC to block a listing, apparently unaware that this was none of
its business - or the SEC's for that matter. The CSRC has also shown
its disapproval of backdoor listings by putting pressure on the investment
banks involved. This includes telling Chinese companies waiting to get approval
that a certain investment bank is not in favour. <BR>
<BR>
Several other aspects of the overseas listing process have been subject
to CSRC interference, such as the pricing and timing of issues. For example,
the CSRC has been left to enforce a state asset control bureau stipulation
that companies cannot list at below net asset value, whatever condition
the markets - or the company - are in. But it also offers more
subjective advice. According to the CSRC's Nie, if a company is planning
to list at what the regulator considers a low price, &quot;we do make it
clear to the company that they should be concerned about the low p/e ratio
and that it might be better to wait for the market to improve&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
It is not that the CSRC is acting in bad faith. As Nie points out, in selecting
companies, the needs of international investors are taken very seriously.
In the case of timing, pricing and the selection of underwriters, the CSRC's
experience can be crucial for Chinese companies which have no idea of what
is involved in listing internationally. The problem is that this advisory
role is not one usually undertaken by a regulator. Not surprisingly, the
CSRC does not see itself primarily as a regulator. As Xie Shikun, deputy
division chief of the CSRC's department of international operations, points
out: &quot;For the overseas listings, we do have some regulatory functions,
but we play a very important role in educating, advising, and coordinating.
So we are educator, adviser, coordinator and, last of all, regulator.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Rather symbolically, the then chairman of the CSRC, Liu Hongru, was present
in New York when Huaneng Power International, one of China's largest independent
power producers, was listed there. Not long after, the State Council dismissed
him, citing as a major shortcoming his undue emphasis on overseas markets
at the expense of regulating the domestic exchanges. <BR>
<BR>
Liu's supporters say he only concentrated on overseas listings because it
is so difficult for the CSRC to get a well-regulated market going inside
China. The fact that the CSRC is a relatively new institution has not helped.
As a Beijing investment banker remarks: &quot;It's a very typical Chinese
approach just to set up an organization and give it a very vague sort of
mandate, and then let it fend for itself and see what happens, and then
make adjustments. But it makes it very hard for the guys put in to run the
thing&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Bond wars</B> <BR>
<BR>
One of the biggest problems has been bureaucratic turf wars, since other
government departments have proved reluctant to give the CSRC authority
in areas they regard as their domain. Take, for example, the bond futures
scandal - the most damaging incident yet for the reputation of China's
securities markets, certainly from the point of view of officials in Beijing.
One of the country's premier brokerages, Shanghai International Securities
Company (Sisco), lost virtually its entire capital when a punt on a central
bank inflation-index announcement went badly wrong. <BR>
<BR>
Sisco had gone well beyond authorized trading limits. Unfortunately, the
CSRC had never had much say in the market. Although formally in charge of
futures, it had been reluctant to interfere in the government bond futures
market for fear of offending the finance ministry, which had claimed bond
futures as its own turf. After the incident, the CSRC was quickly given
authority over bond futures. Although it probably cost him his job, CSRC
chairman Liu Hongru was philosophical about the scandal, saying it took
events like this to move things forward in China. <BR>
<BR>
Bureaucratic differences do not always have such dramatic effects, but they
have often made it extremely difficult for the CSRC to carry out its job
effectively. On a day-to-day basis, by far the most problematic relationship
has been with the central bank, the PBOC, which until 1992 regulated the
securities markets. The CSRC is heavily reliant on the PBOC because the
bank is still responsible for authorizing all financial institutions, including
securities brokerages. Although the CSRC can fine brokers, it can never
exact the ultimate penalty of revoking their licences. <BR>
<BR>
Unfortunately, the CSRC has not had much luck at working in tandem with
the PBOC. According to one CSRC official: &quot;When we go and investigate
certain financial institutions, because of the fact that historically they
are under the PBOC, they say, 'we need an order from the PBOC'. Then we
go to the PBOC and they don't want to help, because they don't like us,
because they still feel resentful that our establishment took away their
power.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
These sorts of differences have been among the main obstacles to a formal
securities law - a rather striking example of the regulatory gaps that
remain. The law is apparently in its tenth draft, but still generating controversy.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;One of the main problems has been how much power it has and what is
the scope of the CSRC's authority?&quot; says CSFB's Walter. &quot;How far
does it go? Does it include everything? Does it include currency options,
for example, or government bond options, or commodities? Does it relate
to treasury bond trades down in Shanghai or is that the ministry of finance's
problem? And I think you have a lot of bureaucratic differences over that.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The problem won't go away in the near future. &quot;It's because of the
overall situation in the country,&quot; says Gao Xiqing, the former CSRC
general counsel and director of public offerings, &quot;because we have
been in the reform process for the past 17 years. But during this time,
the reform has been going in sectors, one after the other. Now it's finally
reached a stage where you need an all-out overall change of the whole structure,
and it hasn't changed yet. And because it hasn't, often we can't afford
to offend other government agencies. Because if we offend the PBOC or ministry
of finance, then they'll make life difficult for us. So we have to try to
negotiate.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The regulator is in a dilemma. Although trying to assert itself, it cannot
afford to step on any toes. According to Gao, the CSRC has to try to build
consensus and avoid confrontation: not exactly a good starting point for
meting out rebukes and punishments. &quot;The problem is that being non-confrontational
and being consensus-building is always much easier than being confrontational,&quot;
says Gao. &quot;And because of that, it feeds on itself and, eventually,
it becomes impossible to punish anyone.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Another major difficulty has been lack of staff. At present the CSRC boasts
only about 130 staff and that, says a CSRC official, &quot;includes the
chauffeurs, the secretaries, janitors, everyone. We have maybe 40 to 50
professionals doing the job.&quot; There has been talk of boosting this
to 200 - the maximum the CSRC is allowed according to the government's
departmental quotas - but progress has been slow. As a Beijing-based
banker points out: &quot;The CSRC has twice the responsibilities of other
regulatory bodies and less than half the staff.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Privately, CSRC officials agree it is a problem. &quot;American-style enforcement
is basically impossible here,&quot; says one. &quot;The SEC has over 2,700
people doing it with very highly trained specialists and also very high-tech
equipment.&quot; What's more, the CSRC is in Beijing, nearly two hours by
air from the Shanghai market, and even further from Shenzhen. <BR>
<BR>
The result is a decidedly stop-gap approach to enforcement. &quot;We basically
start our investigations based on complaints,&quot; says a CSRC source.
&quot;Something major happens, people all complain about it, then we start
an investigation. Otherwise we can't go out and really do anything. We don't
have the capacity.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The capacity problem could perhaps be remedied: among government agencies
the CSRC has the advantage of being able to offer above-average salaries.
But its philosophy would still be a problem: it seems to have become too
concerned with asserting itself within the government hierarchy and drafting
rules, to attend to the details of enforcement. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;A lot of people at the CSRC say 'we need this power' or 'we need that
power',&quot; says one CSRC source. &quot;I say we already have much more
power than we can handle ... If we used the power of the law to its full
extent, you would need 300 people to carry it out.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>More rules than adherence</B> <BR>
<BR>
As Jardine Fleming's Crossman points out: &quot;This is a criticism of the
legal process all over China. There's heaps and heaps of regulations, tons
and tons of rules. And you're supposed to be following them all - but,
of course, you can't. And people will tell you: 'You don't have to follow
that rule; that's not a big deal.' The feeling is that as long as people
aren't getting killed, and money isn't getting stolen from widows and orphans,
it's OK.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
This kind of attitude certainly contributed to the bond futures debacle
last year. One broker says: &quot;People like Imro [financial regulator]
in London and the SEC in the US have enforcement powers, and if you step
over the line, they come out after you. In China, they may or they may not.
It depends. They let Shanghai International Securities go wild on the bond
futures markets: they were breaking rules that were written down in black
and white for quite some time, and everybody knew about it. But the regulator
said: 'It's not causing chaos in the market, we're not going to shut them
down.' But under normal circumstances on the Chicago exchange, you're closed
down.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Unfortunately, other aspects crucial to the smooth functioning of the securities
markets also don't involve murder or theft - they are about more mundane
things such as disclosure. For example, publishing annual reports. <BR>
<BR>
Chinese companies don't take this requirement very seriously. The World
Bank document for the year ended 1993 says that, by July 1994, only 75 of
the listed mainland companies had submitted annual reports deemed acceptable
by the CSRC. Fourteen companies had failed to submit a report at all, and
five saw fit to submit a newspaper clipping instead. <BR>
<BR>
Crossman says: &quot;They don't understand this: the company did not come
out with an annual report. They say: 'What's the big deal?' I say: 'The
big deal is that I cannot sell these shares to anyone and I have got clients
who are hopping mad.' This is the worst fear of every investor - that
they buy a share and never hear about the damn company again. They had some
problems or the auditor quit, or someone's daughter got married. There's
always an excuse. I reply: 'It doesn't matter if someone's daughter got
married: the important thing is that the annual report should have come
out on time. We should suspend the shares.' They reply: 'That's very harsh.
We have to think about what if people want to trade those shares?' &quot;
<BR>
<BR>
There are signs even in the A share market, where shares are bought by individuals
typically not very concerned about the kind of company they are buying into,
that investors are getting fed up. Gao Yang, a legal consultant at Clifford
Chance in Shanghai, says that there are letters in the local press from
investors reporting some companies that have not fulfilled disclosure requirements.
<BR>
<BR>
Analysts close to the CSRC say that fears about the details of enforcement
are being raised inside the agency, with middle-ranking officials complaining
that their leaders don't fully understand the issues. &quot;There's a lack
of necessary knowledge about how the market works,&quot; says one official.
&quot;The securities market is a highly technical one. If the leaders in
charge of the whole thing, making decisions as to how and whom to punish,
don't understand, then you have problems. When we send a report saying:
'We have the following suggestions to punish these people because of this
and this', and they don't understand it, and it's difficult and time-consuming
to explain. But problems in securities need to be dealt with immediately,
otherwise the market repercussion is there.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The CSRC says it is now dealing with disclosure and surveillance. For example,
the Shanghai exchange has been told to set up more market surveillance,
including on-line monitoring that will later be linked to Beijing. <BR>
<BR>
The CSRC has also devolved some of its power to provincial and municipal
regulatory agencies. In March it announced that daily surveillance of trading
and investigation of irregularities which are not of national importance,
or which involve sums of less than Rmb3 million ($360,000), would be carried
out by local regulatory bodies that have been involved with securities from
the start, when stock markets were still local initiatives. <BR>
<BR>
Not that this is really a long-term solution. These agencies are not CSRC
branches but rather arms of local governments and, as such, may be less
loyal to Beijing than to their own immediate superiors. As Zhang Ning, deputy
director of the Shanghai Securities Administration Office, points out: &quot;In
terms of the relationship between the local regulator and the central regulators,
there is no direct administrative control. For example, I and other directors
of this office are not nominated by the CSRC - we are nominated by
the local government.&quot; According to Clifford Chance's Gao: &quot;There
has for a long time been talk that it should be run on a national basis,
but the practice is still unchanged&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Many issues remain to be addressed. The main message of the changeover in
personnel at the CSRC is that the government has decided that the only way
to address current problems is to slow down securities market expansion.
For example, there has been a reduction in the number of listing approvals.
The CSRC also says new stock exchanges are unlikely to be approved. <BR>
<BR>
The bureaucratic slogan that has been selected to characterize these changes
is one comparing the virtues of &quot;standardization&quot; (meaning improved
regulation) with &quot;deve-lopment&quot; (meaning market growth). The former
is to be favoured over the latter. <BR>
<BR>
The more sober atmosphere has not gone down well with market participants,
who accuse the CSRC of being heavy-handed. A particular bone of contention
has been the CSRC's habit of shutting down markets when difficulties arise.
This approach has been particularly prevalent in the case of commodities
and futures markets. According to an official at the Shanghai Stock Exchange:
&quot;It has given the impression that whenever the CSRC finds something
wrong, something against its regulation, it will naturally close it. But
that is not the best way to develop a market.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Others agree that holding back development is not necessarily a solution.
One former CSRC official says: &quot;They want to stop the water and ensure
there's no flood. So they keep building the dam higher and higher. But eventually
there will be a major disaster.&quot; That may be an extreme view. Considering
the speed of growth, there's much to be said for consolidation. <BR>
<BR>
Improvements have already been made. For example, when A share listing restarted
last year, the lottery system of share allocation, which had been a major
cause of frenzied share-buying, was done away with. <BR>
<BR>
And there are signs that top CSRC's officials have become sensitive to criticisms.
As vice-chairman Li Jian Ge<B> </B>points out, with reference to the decision
to restart listing of A shares, even though market conditions are still
poor: &quot;If the government interferes with the market, it will give investors
the wrong signal, whether they make money or lose money.&quot; But it will
take time for the markets to be convinced.  <HR>
<H2>What's happening to B shares? </H2>
In January, China's B share market, which is reserved for foreign investors,
was put under the control of the China Securities Regulatory Commission
(CSRC). B share issues are now to be governed by national regulations and
will be approved for listing by Beijing, rather than by regulators at local
level. <BR>
<BR>
This should help put the B shares on a more secure footing. According to
CSRC vice-chairman Li Jian Ge, the reason the management of the B share
market was not centralized earlier was that &quot;the central authorities
did not have a clear idea about the prospects for these shares and their
direction of development - whether they would exist, or whether they
would be cancelled&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Those doubts have now been removed. As Zhang Ning, the deputy director of
the Shanghai Securities Administration Office (SSAO), Shanghai's local regulator,
points out: &quot;The state has now admitted the legal existence of this
B share market which is why, at the end of last year, the central government
promulgated a unified regulation to manage the issuing of B shares and the
transaction of B shares across the country. So while Shanghai and Shenzhen
have less power in managing the B shares, it's a symbol of development.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Few foreign brokerage companies that had set up in China to participate
in the country's B share market seriously believed that their business might
be terminated from the Chinese side. Still, the paltry number of issues
and their relatively small size - most of the major Chinese companies
slated for listing were sent to Hong Kong and New York - has meant
that it hasn't been a particularly attractive market. Shanghai has fewer
than 40 B share listed companies, with total capitalization of about $1.4
billion and Shenzhen has fewer than 30 companies, valued at approximately
$1.2 billion. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Most brokers are not making money,&quot; says Dominic Yee, associate
director at WI Carr in Shanghai. &quot;They can't make enough in commission
in the secondary market because B shares are too illiquid.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Investors are also disappointed. According to Yee: &quot;Most investors
in B shares have lost money, and a lot of the China funds' B share weighting
is very small, because there are not so many good stocks. H shares [Chinese
shares listed in Hong Kong] and red-chip shares offer better liquidity than
the B share market.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But is the CSRC's takeover of the B share market likely to lead to any radical
changes in this regard? According to vice-chairman Li, it may at least alleviate
the problem: &quot;We have noted the poor liquidity and thin trading of
B shares,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;At the moment, we are drafting detailed implementing rules for the
B shares, which are now under final revision and are expected to be promulgated
in the near future. I don't think the promulgation of these rules will change
the current situation of the B shares, but it will help to improve the situation.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Li adds: &quot;The minimum requirements for candidate companies will be
raised in terms of net assets and capital. More B share companies will be
listed, and the size of the B share companies will be larger than the previous
companies.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
On the down side, the CSRC's decision to draft national B share regulations
seems to indicate that the distinction between B shares and A shares reserved
for domestic investors will be maintained, ruling out the possibility of
foreigners being able to participate in a decent-sized market in the foreseeable
future. <BR>
<BR>
In contrast to previous statements that A and B shares might be merged when
the renminbi becomes convertible, the CSRC now says that, even after that,
the two are likely to be kept separate. <BR>
<BR>
According to Li: &quot;Even if the currency of a country is fully convertible,
that does not mean that foreign investors can buy shares of the country.
Take Switzerland, for example: registered shares can be bought only by national
investors.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
There are also technical obstacles to a merger. For example, A shares trade
at a substantial premium to B shares. However, the biggest problem is fear
of a Mexican-style crisis. Having witnessed the China boom of 1993 and 1994,
followed by the bust since the end of 1994 - when, according to one
CSRC official, &quot;we didn't change at all&quot; - the CSRC is acutely
sensitive to the fickleness of international investors. <BR>
<BR>
It appears that the CSRC will not allow foreign investors a share in the
domestic market until a formula for limiting the potential damage of rapid
inflows and outflows of foreign capital has been worked out. CSRC officials
say they have not yet come up with a strategy, but that various possibilities,
such as limiting foreign ownership in companies to a specified proportion,
are being considered. <B>-</B> <B><I>SR</I></B> <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-65</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B007-254</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.95/em.95.12/em.95.12.7.html 194.217.137.48 19970114151918 text/html 25521
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 15:18:24 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 10:48:06 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 25283
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:December 1995
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:December 1995
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
December 1995
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<h3>GILTS</H3> 
<H2>Can gilts get glitzier? </H2>
<H4>The Bank of England aims to attract more domestic and foreign investment
by improving the efficiency and transparency of the gilts market. But it
is strong macroeconomic indicators and not just efficiency that lenders
are looking for. Rupert Gordon-Walker looks at the bank's chances of success
</H4>
Arcane, illiquid, opaque, volatile, confusing - these are some of the more
polite things said about the gilts market. Even the terminology of the UK
government securities market is anomalous. While other governments raise
debt by issuing bonds that pay coupons, in the UK the equivalent instruments
are called stocks and pay dividends. Perhaps 300 years ago, the market's
founders looked into the future and saw that we would be encouraged to view
government as a business. But despite the Big Bang reforms in 1986, too
many other aspects of the gilt market have aged badly. <BR>
<BR>
The changes in the market's structure, some under way since 1994 and others
planned for next year, are intended to bring it in line with other government
bond markets by making it more transparent, predictable, liquid and efficient.
The motive? To attract foreign flows and retain domestic investors, which
might bring down the cost of funding and thereby reduce the taxpayers' burden.
<BR>
<BR>
It's a laudable aim and few deny that the market is long overdue for reform,
but it is arguable whether tinkering with the structure of government borrowing
will make a significant difference to potential lenders. Inflation and interest
rate prospects, currency and political risk as well as supply and demand
determine market levels and investment choices. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Macroeconomics is of first-order importance,&quot; says Jeremy Cave,
head of fixed income at Citibank Global Asset Management. &quot;Maybe the
changes will lower yields by a handful of basis points, but the degree to
which liquidity is enhanced by these measures is not going to affect our
asset allocation decisions.&quot; Paul Tucker, head of the gilt-edged and
money-markets division of the Bank of England concurs with the market view.
Although the changes should make the market more accessible to a wider range
of investors, he says, the fundamentals have to be right to persuade those
investors to want to access it. <BR>
<BR>
Since the mid-1980s, bond investors' options have expanded, facilitated
by more open market regimes. At the end of last year, foreign holdings comprised
18% of outstanding UK debt. But in Germany it was nearly 40%, in France
20% and in the US 19%. The trend towards higher foreign holdings has been
tentative in the gilts market. Throughout the last decade, overseas holdings
of UK government securities stayed constant at about 12%. In Germany, by
contrast, the proportion increased from 5% in 1979 to over 25% 10 years
later. In France, the increase was even more spectacular - from zero to
30% - precipitated by the rapid modernization of the market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>French market reform</B> <BR>
<BR>
The July 1995 Report of the Debt Management Review, issued jointly by the
Bank of England and the UK treasury (finance ministry) acknowledged that
the French experience &quot;provided an important impetus&quot; to the initiation
of the review in November 1994 by the minister of state at the treasury,
Anthony Nelson. In 1985, the French bond market was rationalized and reshaped.
A mixed bag of funding instruments was reduced to three: BTFs (treasury
bills), BTANs (treasury notes of two- and five-year maturities) and OATs
(accounting for 60% of government debt with maturities of seven, 10, 15,
20 and 30 years). The 10-year OAT is the benchmark and a new one is issued
each year, while all new issues of notes and bonds keep to a regular auction
calendar. Secondary market trades settle through Bank of France computerized
book-entry systems linked to Euroclear and Cedel, prices are quoted for
seven-day settlement for international investors by 12 market-makers (called
SVTs) who deal with each other anonymously via inter-dealer brokers. This
foreigner-friendly structure was inspired by the US. <BR>
<BR>
The US treasury market has about $3 trillion of government securities outstanding,
and an average daily trading volume of $175 billion, making it by far the
largest and most liquid market in the world. The UK Debt Management Review
concluded that &quot;consequently, it is not surprising that bond markets
elsewhere appear to be converging on the US model&quot;, and pointed to
salient features worth replicating - a market-maker system based on primary
dealers and an auction calendar (already in place in the UK), and an open
sale and repurchase (repo) facility and a strips market (planned for next
year). <BR>
<BR>
Other European markets have also emulated this model, although most still
have idiosyncracies. The Dutch is the most open and least complicated, but
is small and piggy-backs on its German neighbour which, in contrast, has
been slow to deregulate and streamline. Neither is size necessarily a major
attraction - Italy has the world's fourth-largest government bond market.
But in international bond markets, the gilt market can forget about winning
first prize - it would be knocked out in the first round. &quot;The US,
Japan and Germany are marching to the tune of a different drum,&quot; says
Graeme Johnston, investment director at Scottish Amicable Investment Managers.
&quot;They determine the success or failure of investments in other markets.
The greater degree of cross-border flows means markets are in competition,
and within Europe (except Germany) liquidity is important.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
However, unless the gilt market reforms, it will compete unsuccessfully
in the second tier of markets. Kit Jukes, bond strategist at NatWest Markets,
argues that the Bank of England's reforms are a precondition of its not
being left behind. &quot;A failure to modernize the gilt market would increasingly
have left it marginalized, domestically oriented and antiquated,&quot; he
says. Andrew Skirton, chief executive of BZW Investment Management, agrees:
&quot;A formal auction process, for example, means the market should be
better perceived. The UK hasn't kept pace with other European markets, and
consequently has looked messy and confusing.&quot; Tucker at the Bank of
England confirms that &quot;one aim of the reforms is to change overseas
perceptions of the gilt market&quot;, but adds: &quot;There is no one model.
Instead, the structure is eclectic and therefore unique, and we shall continue
to borrow the best from other markets and be receptive to suggestions from
practitioners.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Improved transparency</B> <BR>
<BR>
Jeremy Richards, head of bond trading at Prudential Portfolio Managers,
also welcomes the changes since he considers they will provide benefits
to domestic investors and attract greater foreign involvement: &quot;We
are in favour of the increased use of auctions in the funding process and
the trend towards a regular issuance programme where the timing and maturity
profile of issuance is standardized. The previous approach often caused
unnecessary speculation about the term of new issues and it also made planning
strategic investments in the market more difficult. The changes should resolve
these problems and also make the market more transparent for international
investors.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But are transparency and predictability a good thing? Active investors like
to have live prices displayed on their screens, particularly when markets
are moving rapidly. Says Gloria Leporati, senior portfolio manager of Italy's
second largest insurer, Riunione Adriatica di Sicurita (RAS): &quot;Our
main concerns are making money and also survival. We need to get in and
out at the right prices, and live prices help. US treasuries are screen-based
anyway; German, French and Dutch bond prices are usually well indicated
while gilts are positively misleading.&quot; In fact, there is no pretence
that Gemms (gilt-edged market-makers) display true dealing prices - they
are merely advertising their names. <BR>
<BR>
To many overseas investors, gilts are anomalous, but their volatility does
provide them with profitable trading opportunities. &quot;OATs are most
predictable, Bunds can be difficult, Dutch state loans follow Germany too
closely, while gilts are strange, maybe a proxy for US treasuries,&quot;
says Leporati. &quot;But generally, we are happy with gilts because we make
money; it is the Gemms who lose.&quot; An opaque secondary market can benefit
the customer, and no changes are planned. <BR>
<BR>
A salesman at a large US investment house explains: &quot;Gilts seem peculiar
to continental investors and are treated with suspicion, but in volatile
conditions they are easiest to arbitrage. The lack of live prices on Reuters
or Telerate screens and requests for seven-day (rather than the usual one-day)
settlement can mean discrepancies of up to eight ticks between market-maker
quotes. And some investors take advantage. A fund manager, if he has the
resources, gets his junior traders on to a dozen Gemms, and shafts them.
The salesman gets blamed for not controlling his client.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But will the changes attract new foreign investors? A fund manager at a
London-based Japanese bank says he speaks for most when he sees &quot;no
reason why the gilt market should not remain a peripheral concern,&quot;
but he adds: &quot;If they make it more accessible and less confusing then
we might be less scared about using it. But it's a minor market, like the
Dutch or Scandinavians.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Domestic habitats</B> <BR>
<BR>
A central bank in South-East Asia resolved that it would not touch gilts
again after the fallout last year, but was not averse to other bond markets,
despite similar price collapses. Others complain that although they have
heard of the reforms in general, they know little about them in detail -
a view shared by salesmen in Asia. &quot;They're not very interested,&quot;
says one. &quot;We've been marketing gilts here since Big Bang but the perception
is still that inflation is endemic in the UK, there's always political risk
and the currency is vulnerable. Investors are not interested in the structural
changes because they are rarely interested in gilts.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
However, not all foreigners are so averse to gilts. Michael Hallacker, head
of fixed-income portfolio management at one of Germany's largest investors,
Allgemeine Deutsche Investment Gesellschaft (Adig), says: &quot;Although
I am in favour of anything which improves the liquidity and reduces the
volatility of the gilt market, we already have a high exposure to it and
shall continue to do so. Repo, in particular, will help liquidity and narrow
bid-ask spreads, but of course, ultimately, we want performance which is
determined by fundamentals. The changes will simply make our decisions easier
to implement.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A manager of a leading US hedge fund, although acknowledging that the authorities
are at last sensitive to market wishes, reckons that the gilt market will
remain a &quot;mickey-mouse market&quot;. The market is &quot;just too small
and insignificant,&quot; he claims. Yet arguably, the changes look designed
to attract his type of short-term speculative money. <BR>
<BR>
Figures published in the Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin (February 1995)
show widespread net sales of government bonds by foreign investors in 1994,
following the US Federal Reserve's interest rate hike. This suggests a return
to domestic habitats - the retrenchment strongest in the second quarter
- compounding the sharp and protracted reversal of 1993's bull market. But
all bond markets saw substantial falls, so foreign sales were not offset
by domestic purchases. Market-makers too were large net sellers, prompted
by interest rate sentiment and early evidence of overseas investors taking
their 1993 profits. Only in domestically-oriented Japan were transactions
in bond markets relatively undisturbed - except in ultra-long dated JGBs
where Goldman Sachs found no bid for its long position and, according to
market rumour, made large losses. <BR>
<BR>
Liquidity and easy access for cross-border flows is a double-edged sword.
&quot;Portuguese bond yields have tightened against Spanish rates despite
illiquidity, and Belgium has also benefited from a lack of overseas participation,&quot;
points out Leporati at RAS. The lowest government bond yields in the world
are in Japan, yet the market is famously arcane and monopolized by the big
local securities firms. Overseas presence has averaged just 5% over the
last five years. <BR>
<BR>
Perhaps the changes to the gilts market will result in domestic funds being
retained by it. But as Scottish Amicable's Johnston observes: &quot;The
horse has already bolted, and besides, re-regulation would have to be introduced
to recapture domestic money - although I'm certainly not advocating it.&quot;
Yet according to another fund manager, there will always be a captive domestic
investor base, contained, for example, by actuarial remit in the UK or by
charter requirement among European insurance companies. <BR>
<BR>
UK pension funds' gilts holdings at the end of September accounted for just
9.7% of their portfolios, incurring pressure from trustees to increase the
proportion to historically prudent levels, so that they are more in line
with foreign competitors. An official gilt strips market might help. From
the second half of next year, the Bank proposes that four standard gilts
can be separated into their constituent interest and principal payments
(and rebundled) in the CGO (Central Gilts Office). A 10-year gilt paying
semi-annually can then be transformed into 21 zero-coupon bonds, each of
them direct obligations of the government. <BR>
<BR>
They will be attractive to investors seeking regular cash flows or those,
like pension funds, with specific outlays payable several years ahead. As
Jeremy Richards at Prudential Portfolio Managers says, its development will
&quot;be particularly beneficial to our clients who have long-term liabilities
to match.&quot; He adds: &quot;We would also look to use the market to back
interest rate views more effectively.&quot; Bullet payments have the advantage
of no reinvestment risk. <BR>
<BR>
Andrew Skirton at BZW Investment Management agrees, arguing that the availability
of more exact matching instruments will obviate the need for such &quot;a
rigorous investment approach&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
So why now? &quot;The gilts market is notoriously illiquid and unprofessional,&quot;
says Philip Sanders, director of fixed income at Guinness Flight Asset Management.
&quot;That the authorities have finally done something about it is amazing,
because they are naturally conservative and slow to change.&quot; According
to the Bank's Tucker, the market has been under constant review since Big
Bang. Bank of England officials were apparently writing papers about strips
and repos in the late 1980s. <BR>
<BR>
The Debt Management Review had as its terms of reference &quot;to review
the existing arrangements for the setting of debt management policy, the
selling of government debt and the management of outstanding debt&quot;.
Its report last July proposed new priorities for debt-management policy
to replace the original objectives set out in July 1990. The 1990 objective
had been to support and complement monetary policy. The priority now, the
review declared, was to minimize the cost of meeting government financing
needs - to be achieved by adjusting the maturity and nature of debt instruments
and, most important, by developing a more liquid and efficient gilts market.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Three-point reform</B> <BR>
<BR>
The Bank of England's Tucker believes the reform's three main elements should
produce a more efficient market. The first is greater predictability and
transparency in the bank's issuance methods. The publication of its remit
for a particular year, detailing funding requirements and the number, size
and maturity range of gilt auctions, and the subordination of taps (staged
sales over time in response to demand) to an occasional market-management
tool, will mean fewer surprises. This has been an evolving process. &quot;Auctions
have been used for several years - we have encouraged the systems to mature
and now they can be a predictable and regular feature of the market,&quot;
he says. <BR>
<BR>
The second element is the introduction of measures to improve secondary-market
liquidity - particularly repo, which is to start in January. This should
broaden trading activity and investor demand, attract international players
familiar with this type of instrument, and permit more investors to short
the market or fund purchases - which is particularly useful for discovering
the price level at auctions. <BR>
<BR>
The third element encompasses product enhancement - both the consolidation
of benchmark issues and the creation of a strips market in the second half
of next year. In addition, clarification of tax issues in the recent UK
budget should benefit investors and make the market more efficient. From
January 2 1996, interest will be paid gross on gilts if held in new CGO
Star accounts. The Inland Revenue, which will subject taxable investors
to quarterly accounting as a replacement for withholding tax, will identify
these accounts by their first digits. The removal of withholding tax should
broaden investor participation, ease price formation and hence make the
repo market run more smoothly. The Inland Revenue also proposes that income
and capital gains should be taxed equally, which will permit the development
of a strips market and further reduce yield curve anomalies. <BR>
<BR>
Nigel Richardson, head of bond research at Yamaichi International (Europe),
comments: &quot;Already the market has become more efficient and uniform.
The announcement of the proposed tax changes last summer prompted a convergence
of high and low coupon gilts - low coupons no longer trade at a premium.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Payment of interest gross on holdings in Star accounts will also end the
premium status attached to Fotra (free of tax to residents abroad) gilts,
and other rationalizing measures are planned. The frustrating 37-day ex-dividend
period will be reduced to seven days from the beginning of next year, and
discussions with Euroclear and Cedel are under way to link the CGO to the
two international settlement agencies. <BR>
<BR>
The reforms in the French bond market increased liquidity and attracted
substantial investor interest. The effect on yields is impossible to quantify,
but the Debt Management Review reckons that &quot;it is widely believed
to be significant&quot;. Yet as Jukes points out, real yields on French
bonds have increased - not declined - since the early 1980s, and for the
last decade have tended to be higher than yields on unreconstructed gilts.
It is tempting to identify an inverse correlation between opening the market
and reducing funding costs. <BR>
<BR>
Canadian yields were lower than in the UK this autumn - despite the prospect
of Canada's dissolution - yet the gilt market has never been easier to access.
As NatWest's Jukes says: &quot;There is no short cut to lower borrowing
costs, with the control of inflation and reduction of overall borrowing
so dominant that changes which make the market more liquid, efficient and
accessible will have only a minor impact - cutting yields by only a handful
of basis points.&quot; After all, he asks: &quot;Does it make any difference
to yield levels who owns gilts?&quot; <BR>
<BR>
If there is no evidence that reforming the market's structure will reduce
funding costs, what is it all for? In the past, say market practitioners,
the Bank enjoyed firm paternal control or even the role of school bully.
But Tucker at the Bank of England stresses that the changes represent a
joint initiative by the bank and the treasury. Any suggestions that the
bank was forced into reforming the market is &quot;nonsense&quot;. Neither,
he argues, does the change in the government's formal objectives for debt
management policy signify a further diminution in the central bank's authority
by reducing monetary policy to a subordinate role. Instead, he says, it
should be seen as a &quot;statement of current practice. Debt management
has not been used to influence the monetary aggregates directly for at least
10 years&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Another Bank of England source admits, however, that there was nothing wrong
with the old market. &quot;If it works, why fix it?&quot; he asks, but thinks
that the &quot;treasury does sometimes fall victim to the latest fad&quot;.
A minority voice of dissent, perhaps, but consistent with a market view
that the treasury was panicked into reforms by economists' forecasts that
it would be unable to fund a &#163;50 billion public sector borrowing requirement
in 1992/93, and dragged a reluctant bank into agreement. <BR>
<BR>
There is another suspicion. If European monetary union happens in 1999,
by definition, there can be only one government bond market for its members.
Individual countries will issue bonds denominated in Ecu. Rather as in the
Eurobond market, country-credit risk will determine the yield differential
between individual sovereign bonds. Will London be the trading centre for
the new market? Although, as Johnston at Scottish Amicable reflects, &quot;what
matters ultimately is the quality of the people in a financial centre to
attract business&quot;, there can be no guarantee that those people will
remain if they are frustrated by too much regulation. Guinness Flight's
Sanders is emphatic: &quot;An ossified structure is not compatible with
a dynamic, modern financial centre.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
At a conference hosted by NatWest Markets in November, members of the platform,
which included treasury and Bank of England representatives, suggested the
gilt market changes were &quot;bigger than Big Bang&quot;. The audience
seemed less impressed, but they were mostly domestic investors more interested
in developments in the index-linked market, and happy to earn fixed stock-lending
fees rather than incur the costs of setting up repo expertise and risk trading
losses. <BR>
<BR>
The authorities will need to spread the word overseas or else rely on Gemms
to advertise for them. The best advertisement, of course, would be a record
of low inflation, a strong currency and reduced borrowing - <I>plus &ccedil;a
change, plus c'est la m&ecirc;me chose</I>. <BR>
<BR>
<BR> 
<H3>10-year government bond yields* </H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.95.12.7.gif" WIDTH="348" HEIGHT="191" ALIGN=middle
NATURALSIZEFLAG="0"><BR>
<BR>
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-66</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B021-74</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.02/wl.96.02.2.html 194.217.137.48 19970114135720 text/html 22546
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:55:51 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 21 Oct 1996 10:32:55 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 22304
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00002400 Geopolitics -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
March/April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra14.gif" alt="Davos 1996">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H2>CITY LIMITS</H2>
<!--EMWL_WL_GEOPOLITICS-->
<H4>The city is moving back into the limelight as a player on both the investment
and geopolitical stage, although different issues face the developed and
developing world. At this year's Davos summit, <I>World Link</I> assembled
a range of specialists to discuss such issues from their different perspectives.
The panel was composed of Frank Gehry, an eminent architect based in Los
Angeles, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, professor at the Harvard School of Business
Administration whose book <I>World Class</I> was exerpted in our September
issue, St Petersburg's first deputy mayor Alexei Kudrin and Richard Sennett,
professor of history and sociology at New York University </H4>
<B>Kanter</B> I am not an expert on cities <I>per se</I>: my concern is
with a sustainable economy that creates jobs for people. But jobs are created
in particular places, and cities are the centrepieces of regions in which
all the factors of production intersect with people's lives. Increasingly,
metropolitan regions have to develop strategies not only for the classic
set of urban problems, but also to connect their citizens as workers with
the markets of the world, since each region has a different mix of industries
and assets while national policies are very general. I have been struck
by the growing consciousness of regions of the need to take control of their
fate in the global economy. <BR>
<BR>
My starting point was what businesses need to flourish... But I began to
see that all the other issues - the classic list of urban problems,
amenities, cultural attractions, educational benefits and the sheer value
of the clash of ideas - had to be resolved to make communities places
that attracted and held businesses. I was less interested in the trade-offs
between inner cities and &quot;edge cities&quot; or suburbs than with how
the entire region could develop a consciousness about its fate. <BR>
<BR>
Solutions are not going to come about because of competition between Wilmington
and Boston for the headquarters of a local software company. They are going
to come because those areas develop a shared strategy for being attractive
to software companies and avoiding the problems that arise when inner cities
are in turmoil. Businesses increasingly have an interest in seeing that
inner city problems are solved because they are associated with crime, congestion
or decay, which make it hard to bring customers or employers into the city.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Those two issues - the physical city and community -
often interconnect. I am often struck by the fantasy of globalspeak: people
talk as if it does not matter where economic activities are located. It
does matter and it makes a real difference to how businesses behave, whether
they are located in a small town or in a denser environment where there
are a myriad of competitors, where the head office is not a closed container
of people. <BR>
<BR>
I would dispute the argument that companies are moving out of cities, dispersing
to the suburbs or greenfield sites. In any case that process is mainly an
American development and has not happened in Europe in the same way. We
went through a 50-year period of dispersion in the US. In the next 50 years
we will see a reconcentration of cities, largely for economic reasons. The
issue is, how do you combine the positive economic charge provided by density
with better-quality cities that are more democratic and so on. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> It is hard to be too general. Some cities are not [dispersing]:
some cities still have an attraction. As crazy as Manhattan is, people go
there because they can get all the things that go with Manhattan. The art
museums raise a lot of capital for the community. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kanter</B> The city centre itself is very important for cultural density,
the interchange of ideas. Manufacturing will continue to locate on the periphery
and will often prefer the small town, but that is not where brain-centred
activities are. Whenever culture is feeding, sparking or communicating an
activity... those are human functions that the new electronic means will
not substitute. They will keep relationships alive and feed the need for
new relationships, but people will still gather face-to-face. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> But the eastern American city is a 19th century city and Los
Angeles is a different kind of city based on the automobile. There is no
centre. Everything you are talking about does not exist anymore. You can
go to the symphony, you do not see anybody: the buildings are designed so
you do not see anybody. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Density matters... <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> But we do not have it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> You have it, but in a new form. That is, you do not have
it cheek by jowl. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> But in downtown LA, someone finally realised that there is no
housing there. This was a revelation, just a couple of weeks ago... (<I>general
laughter</I>). <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> What makes a city healthy - it takes different forms
- is when you feel the presence of people outside the envelope of your
work. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> The thing that worries me is that even though LA is not a great
model, it is a city built on the automobile and developments all over the
world are mimicking that, not because they like it but because the automobile
creates it. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kanter</B> In Indonesia, a client of mine has built some new towns outside
Jakarta designed by golf course designers, modelled on the southern California
suburban community. They are helping to build a middle class, they are putting
in school systems and helping to reduce the city's incredible traffic congestion.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> That is an important issue. The question is, what is a new
form? We are not going to have the regions of the past with one city radiating
a hinterland. Among planners the question is, how do you conceive of a region
where you do not get bound into the mystification of the map, where the biggest
place looks like the most important. A lot of planners, particularly in
the developing world, are trying to sort that out. It raises the question
of how we think about the relationship between space and the entity that
we call a city. And that is not going to look anything like the traditional
city of New York I live in, which is a very dense space. I do not think
that means space is irrelevant. I would agree that electronic means of communication
do not displace physical space. It is an oversell of new technology that
it is going to take the place of land. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kanter</B> George Gilder, a writer who hypes information technology,
is saying virtual reality means that nobody will ever leave their home,
but I do not agree. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> These are people who will soon go under if they never leave
their home. The question for me, in social and cultural terms, is how do
you stimulate people by having that sense of relating to others. The traditional
city did it by packing them together physically. Now we have a technology
that does not have quite that crowd-like compaction. <BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> What does make a city liveable? Have we learned from the
past? Can people plan a city, or is that really not possible? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> In the Third World, where you have cities that are growing
exponentially, and people coming in have very little of their own except
their labour power, it is difficult to plan. That is a different kind of
planning problem from the one Rosabeth is talking about, where you have
an established settlement and the question is how to knit it together. I
cannot, as a urban historian, think of any time in the past when the rates
of city growth were as high as they are in south-east Asia. Nobody knows
how to deal with cities like that. <I>(Turning to Gehry)</I> What are your
thoughts about new forms of urban architecture? Your architecture seems
totally urban to me. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> I studied planning before I went into architecture... so I
was idealistic, but I have been edited out of everything: the kind of things
I do are not needed or called for. I know of no city that would hire me.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> What is it that you offer? And why is it not wanted? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> Most cities want to go back to the 19th century, they have
the Prince Charles thing [in Britain which emphasises neoclassical architecture]
because it is comfortable and tradition. I buy Brooks Brothers clothes,
so I understand. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Can you say what is urban about your architecture? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> I work contextually and live with what is there. I am optimistic
about it, I accept it. I presume that the cities I work in are products
of democracy, and the chaos exists because of that: I want to understand
it. The most optimistic thing is [to bring together] a whole neighbourhood
by what you do, and it is possible to do that. But it is about relating
to what is around, not copying it. For instance, in Prague we are just finishing
a building next to [Czech President Vaclav Havel's apartment block] on the
river, which opens in May. Havel [who owns the site] asked me, &quot;Don't
do a building that is 19th century, don't do Czech cubism. Give me something
of today but I want it to fit&quot;. I think I have done it. When the city
saw the plans there was a hue and cry, a lot of architecture school guys
and art critics screamed, but they took a referendum in the city and we
got 68% support. These are things you can show, but I do not know if you
can [turn them into a] formula. It is based on respect for your fellow man.
But while you are respecting him, you do not talk down to him. You present
the best you can do, not copying tradition and pandering to [popular fears].
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> We are still stuck in the planning of the past, we do not
think the way a modern corporation would think. We still have this notion
that a plan is a whole, but the truth is that when you get growth you do
not get things that all fit into a neat business plan. We are having [this
struggle] in New York with the city's third regional plan. I am a critic
of it because its notion is that either there is coherence and everything
fits together or there is anarchy. What is missing is what actually makes
an urban form happen, as with a good business [that allows] unexpected growth.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> You are saying the choice is not between perfection and
anarchy: what is the least or most that the authorities should do? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> You have to permit growth and you cannot, by making a plan,
create growth. On another point, in developing countries the biggest issue
that faces urban planners is rethinking the nature of the house. When western
architectural models got imported into this urban revolution, essentially
they took an early 20th century Corbusian idea of the house, a vertical
stack, and they put it into a world which stresses every infrastructural
requirement of that building: for example, it has got to have electricity
24 hours a day, otherwise people are stuck in the elevators. <BR>
<BR>
A lot of practical and cultural issues arise about how new migrants from
the countryside can feel they have a place that is something like a home.
This is a big problem... which I find difficult to get architects -
particularly young architects - to think about, because their eyes
are on the trophy of monumental civic institutions. Everybody's dream is
to do an art gallery or a museum. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> Not true! <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Not true? Argue with me! Let me finish what I am saying and
then you can tell me why I am wrong. There are much more flexible ways of
making housing which suit the fact that these families are growing under
incredible change. The housing we are putting them in is almost barrack-like,
old Soviet-style housing: nobody is learning anything. We have not learned
anything about the errors of this Corbusian model, particularly in the Third
World. As a planner, I think that is the biggest environmental problem we
face. Now tell me why I am wrong. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> You have fallen right into the clich&eacute; trap of the age.
This happens a lot, and I get it too because my work looks [offbeat, it
is not considered] socially responsible... Most young people, and myself
when I was young, become an architect as an act of social responsibility.
[Many established architectural talents] would love to do social housing
more than anything, they would do it for free. <BR>
<BR>
In my own case I was called about a $10 million project in Los Angeles for
the homeless, for the Union Rescue Mission. I was so excited: we went to
the client and started working. Halfway through the meeting we realised
they were also going to meet three other architects [who] had all agreed
to do the work <I>pro bono</I>. That is like asking for $1 million cash.
I walked out of the room and said I cannot do this. The guy that got the
job... needed the cachet. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> This has a resonance in business. The assumption is that
innovative architecture cannot be social architecture, that risk-taking
is not going to work in the context of economic scarcity. That is a terrible
error. <BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> What exactly is being left out and how would it make a
difference to cities? How would cities be better, more liveable places?
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> That is a very - excuse the pun - concrete thing.
Most of the building we do in the Third World is reinforced concrete which
is cheap to manufacture but extremely inflexible in its form. China can grow
them like microbes, because it is a simple building process. What has not
been done is the kind of forms Frank here deals with [using metal and glass
which] have broken the mould. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> The important thing is the intellect and talent of the person
coming to bear on the problem. I am trying to look for a form of building,
a structure, an idea which fits with the time we are in instead of the past.
We cannot do much for the future: we just hope that what we do has some
relevance in the future. The best we can try and do is live in the present,
and that means you do not copy, you do something now that is responsive
to where you are. Doing that creates a new look, just like the city built
on democracy looks different. <BR>
<BR>
By accident Tokyo has [an exciting dense mix of] of temples, post-war eight-storey
buildings and higher buildings. For me, the place is visually exciting because
of the variety: nobody followed any policy, it just happened. They copied
New York's Sixth Avenue in Chinjikuand it is horrible. For me at least there
is a moment in time in Tokyo, where the city is quite beautiful by accident.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Do you ever think of business as having an architecture?
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Kanter</B> Sure, and that metaphor is used by the reengineering and information
technology people. I would like to say something else about business. A
colleague said that if you looked at the most important buildings you could
identify the most important social institutions. Initially, for western
cities, it was churches. Then it became public buildings and the public
sector played the most significant role. Now it is company headquarters in
many places and that reflects the role of the business community in taking
a leadership role, helping to determine what a city should be. <BR>
<BR>
In many cases... it is not the public urban planning department or the local
economic development board that is shaping goals, setting criteria and helping
to raise money: it is business leadership. So when we look for the source
of future solutions [we should look at] the private sector, not simply contributing
to social problems the old way, by giving to charity, but by helping to
develop a coherent vision for the community so that the people it employs
can have a high quality of life. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Gehry</B> But business leaders are threatened by architectural talent.
There are 51 talents in the world of architecture, none of them get hired
by those people. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kanter</B> I am not sure it is a matter of the best architecture. How
much of the city is its physical bricks and mortar, and how much is its
culture, educational institutions, the interaction between people and organisations?
As an outsider, I saw planning and economic development as overly concentrated
on bricks and mortar, and under-concentrated on the social or cultural connections.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> This issue has bedevilled me all my working life. (<I>Turning
to Kudrin, who was only able to join the end of the discussion)</I> We should
hear from you. <BR>
<BR>
<B>World Link</B> For example, how you are juggling the balance in St Petersburg
between freedom and regulation? In all the post-communist cities local authorities
had difficulties deciding how much to regulate because in their minds regulation
was all bad. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kudrin</B> St Petersburg is one of the most beautiful cities on the planet,
with a population of 5 million. There is a historic centre and peripheral
development. In the communist years, the main aim was to preserve the centre
but the new areas are concrete boxes. Now, one sees that at least the communists
preserved the town centre. The city's chief architect is a young man, who
works independently... <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> But you have kept a chief architect. Earlier, we discussed
the possibility of doing something where there is not someone managing,
directing, controlling the total form. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kudrin</B> The chief architect's post is preserved so that he can give
his authorisation for all projects. Buildings must have his go-ahead. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> Would you call that democratic? <BR>
<I>(general laughter) <BR>
<BR>
</I><B>Kudrin</B> But the public approves of this kind of control. We fear
exactly the other phenomenon, when you have no regulation and end up with
concrete boxes next to old palaces... Especially the banks, the richest
institutions in Russia, want the centre for their buildings. Perhaps it
will be liberalised when there is no longer such a danger. The first thing
I did was to elaborate a development programme for the historic part of
the city. We launched a discussion with specialists, sociologists and architects,
to decide how we wanted the St Petersburg of tomorrow to look. The centre
of St Petersburg is recognised as a heritage monument, so we would rather
be conservative. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Sennett</B> But what is the balance between the city as museum and the
city which is more dynamic? Does the historic centre becomes something preserved,
not renovated by diverse uses - perhaps not by banks or big companies,
but... so that it is a living building? <BR>
<BR>
<B>Kudrin</B> This is the discussion which is taking place right now in
St Petersburg. The chief architect believes that we must reserve undeveloped
parts of the city for the business sector, as [has been happening] in Paris
Defence or the City of London. [But I should say] that the attitude in St
Petersburg is quite different from other Russian cities. Our inhabitants
are inspired by the old culture which permeates the city. I was a sociologist
at one point. I understood that... buildings also have a social role. St
Petersburg was predestined to be the capital of an empire. But now its role
is reserved for classical culture. <BR>
<BR>
<I>In an initiative linked to the Megacities programme at Davos, the city
of Budapest has set up a home page on the Internet for mayors at: http://www.fph.hu/mcc/mcchome.html</I>
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-67</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B026-102</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.11/em.96.11.6.html 194.217.137.48 19970114141506 text/html 20534
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:14:04 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 17:43:17 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 20327
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: Denmark
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD><TITLE>Denmark</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>

<P>

<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: November 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
November 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 


<H3> <B> DENMARK </B> </H3>

<H2> <B>Denmark's big two prepare for battle</B> </H2>

<H4>
<B>In the long term there will probably be room in the Danish banking market only for Den Danske Bank and Unibank. But before then they will have to adjust to the EU's single-currency system, which Denmark is unlikely to join at the outset, and to competition from consolidated banks in neighbouring states. Jules Stewart reports on their prospects</B>
</H4>

<P>
Denmark's two leading banks are gearing up for what Thorleif Krarup, chief executive officer of Unibank, describes as "the coming battle in European banking". Unibank and its main domestic rival, Den Danske Bank, are threatened by competition that will emerge as banks in Sweden and Germany consolidate. Another cause for concern is that Denmark will be left out of the first round of European economic and monetary union (Emu). Both banks have therefore embarked on ambitious diversification at home and expansion in the Nordic region to safeguard their future in what will be a euro-denominated banking market.

<P>
Denmark will join Emu only if a single European currency is approved by a national referendum. This effectively rules out adopting the euro on January 1 1999 with inner core countries such as Germany and France. Some analysts believe that even if the Danes vote to accept the euro, there could be a delay before the banks' systems are able to cope with the single currency.

<P>
Knud S&oslash;rensen, chairman of Den Danske Bank, says that if competition becomes distorted by banks operating in the Emu system obtaining better funding terms, his bank may have to consider moving part of its activities abroad. This, he says, could entail placing daily liquidity management operations in Hamburg or other nearby markets. "But there is still more than two years to go," he says, "so our position now is to keep a watchful eye on the situation."

<P>
Unibank's Krarup says the bank needs to do its forward planning now to meet the challenges of operating outside Emu. "Clearly, our large corporate clients are strongly affected by interest rates within the EU and they will be demanding services and products in euros," he says. "We will have to build up a parallel system in order to service these customers. A lot of cash management will be run in euros, there will be a demand for loans in euros and that means we will see an increasing portion of our assets in the single European currency. In the long term this could pose problems for Danish banks so we might have to set up funding bases in Luxembourg or Frankfurt, for instance."

<P>
Consolidation in the German and Swedish banking markets within the Emu system, given the potential size of the banks involved and the likelihood of their access to funding at privileged rates, poses big problems for smaller banks struggling to defend their home turf. There is already serious talk about Sweden's Sparbanken Sverige merging with or taking over Foreningsbanken. And the market believes this could trigger a broader realignment through the coming together of three or four other mergers.

<P>
"Size will mean a lot within Emu," says Unibank's Krarup. "This is one of the main reasons why we are expanding and consolidating our position in the Nordic region. We have come to consider this our domestic territory and we need to build up our presence for the coming battle. This is why we are working to become bigger in the Nordic market."

<P>
<B>Safety first at home</B>

<P>
Krarup believes it would make more sense from the point of view of delivering shareholder value if Swedish and German banks were to consolidate their domestic positions before going after foreign market share. He points out that none of these banks has more than a 5% to 10% share of its respective domestic market, while Unibank and Den Danske hold nearly 60% of the overall Danish banking market and up to 80% of some business areas. Krarup reckons consolidation among German banks will take five or six years. "After that they will start to look at neighbouring markets, and that is when it could become a challenge," he says.

<P>
Den Danske's S&oslash;rensen says there is no need for Danish banks to get unduly alarmed by the challenges of Emu and the threat of encroachment by more powerful foreign rivals. "We should not allow ourselves to become overly frightened, but of course we need to be aware of these developments and take the necessary steps," he says. "We feel that within our bank we have the capacity to cope quite well in terms of management and equity."

<P>
The fact is that despite being in what appears to be a vulnerable position, Denmark's two big banks are by no means pygmies. In the past two years they have shown themselves to be aggressive in taking on new business and moving in on neighbouring markets. 

<P>
Den Danske's and Unibank's management teams are considered comparable in quality and efficiency. A major difference is size &#173; Den Danske's total assets of Dkr411.9 billion ($70 billion) are well ahead of Unibank's Dkr297.2 billion, and Den Danske's Dkr2.35 billion pre-tax profits are almost double Unibank's. Den Danske is also considered the more conservative, blue-blooded institution, geared toward big-ticket corporate lending and the upper end of the retail market, while Unibank's focus is more on middle corporates and the lower segment of the personal sector. 

<P>
The Nordic gambit is a key part of both banks' strategies to strengthen their defences against the coming European challenge. "We have defined the Nordic region as our natural home territory," says Den Danske's S&oslash;rensen. "We have opened branches in Helsinki, Stockholm and Oslo and are in the process of opening offices in Malm&ouml; and Gothenburg. We are already running quite a book on these three countries, mainly with leading corporates and public authorities."

<P>
S&oslash;rensen says he does not rule out the possibility of moving into the Nordic retail sector and Den Danske also has ambitions in regional capital markets and investment banking. "One of our strategic aims is to become a bigger and more visible bank," he says. "Another is to broaden our portfolio in Britain where we have been operating for 15 years. Things have gone very well there and we operate in the UK as core bank for a number of British companies."

<P>
Unibank's Krarup expects cross-border competition to hot up in the Nordic region in the coming years. Unibank has also opened branches in the Nordic capitals and Krarup regards this as a domestic banking region for wholesale operations, securities trading and foreign exchange. "We have similar languages and legal systems," he says. "In spite of closer ties through the EU and the mass media, there is still a significant cultural gap between the Nordic countries and western Europe." 

<P>
Krarup showed his determination to consolidate Unibank's position in the Nordic investment banking market last August when the bank bought Asea Brown Boveri's international stockbroking activities, ABB Aros Securities. This gave Unibank a stronger regional position in equities, research and corporate finance. Krarup says that with this acquisition Unibank boosted its market share in Nordic equities to about 8% or 9% in Sweden and 10% to 12% in Finland. "We have just started up in Norway and we are now one of the three major players in the Nordic region, along with Carnegie, which belongs to Singer &amp; Friedlander, and ABN Amro's Alfred Berg," he says.

<P>
Denmark's two big banks were both born of mergers that took place about six years ago. They were ahead of the consolidation game in the rest of Europe and have created economies of scale at home and have begun to use their new-found strength to penetrate markets abroad. Den Danske managed to consolidate the cultures and systems of its two banks with comparatively little pain. Along with Svenska Handelsbanken it emerged unscathed from the Nordic banking crisis of the first half of the 1990s. 

<P>
At the outset Unibank, which attempted a more ambitious merger by trying to put together three banks of different size and cultures, had a rougher time. Then in 1992 Krarup was called in from his job as chief executive of Denmark's largest mortgage lender to crack the whip. "The merger is now completed but it has taken a long time," he says. "The new bank wasn't going forward at the right pace, but now after five years all the systems are in place."

<P>
Denmark's banks are cashing in on a more relaxed regulatory environment and buoyant economic growth, which Krarup expects to continue on a firmer basis than in the past. "There are good opportunities in the market if you can keep a tight rein on credit risks and costs with the next downturn in mind," he says.

<P>
Underlying growth in loan demand had been extremely sluggish over the past four or five years and the banks were also adversely affected by an inverted yield curve &#173; until recently, short-term rates were substantially higher than long-term ones. Customers therefore rushed to take out long-term home financing from mortgage lenders instead of relying on commercial bank loans.

<P>
"What we are witnessing this year, which I would expect to see carrying on into 1997, is stronger demand on the back of a normalized yield curve," says Krarup. "We are now operating on 3.5% overnight rates, which means that we can lend at 6% to 7%, compared with 8% or 9% for the mortgage lenders."

<P>
S&oslash;rensen reckons Danish banks will benefit from a period of good economic growth that has enabled them to build up a strong capital base and provisions. "The Danish banks are hungry for business and there is a lot of price-cutting and fierce competition," he says. "Interest margins are shrinking dramatically and if this continues some of the smaller banks could find themselves in trouble. People are taking a lot of risks that would have been considered unthinkable five years ago."

<P>
Bad-debt provisions remain at a high level despite the improved outlook. Both big banks are at a provisioning ratio approaching three times their disclosed bad debt portfolio, although unlike British banks the Danes disclose only the level of non-performing loans, not doubtful debts, which typically can amount to 20% or 30% of their non-performing loans. Could Danish banks, which have yet to return money to shareholders, be considered overcapitalized? "It would be hard to say we are overcapitalized," says S&oslash;rensen. "It would be fairer to say we are well provisioned in terms of providing a buffer against losses on our loan book. In that respect we rank in the top European league."

<P>
The two big Danish banks operate on exceptionally high Tier 1 capital ratios, nearly 9% in the case of Unibank and 7.5% for Den Danske Bank as a result of its recent insurance acquisition. The banks are required to apply mark-to-market accounting principles on all their assets, so they have to readjust their valuations yearly. Bankers argue that if interest rates start an upward trend, they will need a strong capital base so they are able to absorb losses on their bond portfolios.

<P>
"We believe that a 7% Tier 1 capital ratio is a reasonable target for Unibank," says Krarup. "We are confident that we can cover the difference with asset growth over the next couple of years. With the opportunities in commercial banking and other areas now coming into the market I would not say we are overcapitalized. This is also one of the reasons why we have not had a rights issue."

<P>
<B>Trimming costs</B>

<P>
Cost-cutting has become a prominent feature since the two banks put their respective mergers together and Denmark, along with the rest of Europe, entered an environment of low inflation and low interest rates. The market regards Den Danske as the more aggressive cost-cutter. It has reduced its staff from more than 16,000 to about 11,000 over the past five years. "Within our small country this has been a very eye-catching exercise," says S&oslash;rensen. "I cannot say that this will continue at the same pace but we will see more staff shrinkage in the coming years. We will also be in the forefront in introducing new technology. We believe the Danish public is well geared to work with this as up to 40% of all households now have a personal computer."

<P>
Krarup says that in the years he has been at the helm of Unibank the group has managed to trim costs by some Dkr1 billion, and he looks forward to the cost base remaining flat this year. "We have set a cost-income ratio target of 60% which we believe is attainable within three years," he says. This ratio, a measure of a bank's efficiency, currently stands at 68%. "The reduction will be achieved by cost-cutting, not just by adding on new business," he says. "This means bringing in new technology and increasing the overall efficiency of our existing systems. With more demand coming into the market we see the need for dramatic cost-cutting." 

<P>
The two Danish banks are now jostling for position in non-traditional markets such as life assurance and mortgage lending. A lower priority, but one which appears to be on the cards, is the future rationalization of domestic banking. Both banks are keenly aware of the need to trim their cost base further in a low inflation environment.

<P>
"Until a couple of years ago the mortgage and insurance markets were off-limits to the banks," says Matthew Czepliewicz, equity research director at Salomon Brothers in London. "Since the restrictions were lifted the mortgage lenders have been losing business to the banks. Den Danske and Unibank have moved into this market in a very aggressive way."

<P>
With competition growing in the domestic retail market and banks' lending margins being squeezed, Unibank decided to diversify into mortgage business two and a half years ago. Since then it has built up a home loan book valued at Dkr40 billion, making it Denmark's fourth-largest player in the market after the three traditional mutuals.

<P>
"Demand is starting to return to personal lending and we can foresee a growth rate of 5% to 6% a year, but the mortgage market is showing much more dramatic growth," says Krarup. "We should easily be able to increase our mortgage book above Dkr100 billion and we have set ourselves a target of Dkr150 billion in the near term, about 20% of the total market. We already have an 18% market share of new gross lending."

<P>
Den Danske has also moved into mortgage lending, a business S&oslash;rensen calls "a major growth area". This more conservative of the big two banks considers portfolio management to be another area in which it can build its profile as a universal bank. With the acquisition last year of the Danica group of companies from Baltica Forsikring for about Dkr6.8 billion, Den Danske became a major player in the lucrative life assurance business. Danica raised the value of the bank's assets under management to nearly $30 billion, large by Danish standards. "This year we set up a separate asset management company and we look forward to good results from that venture," says S&oslash;rensen. He also points to consumer financing as a way forward. Many customers seem to prefer paying over the odds for a loan obtained via the anonymity of a computer-scored application form rather than having to face embarrassing questions from a credit officer in a branch office.

<P>
A dilemma for the banks in their domestic strategy is how they will deal with competition from small and medium-sized regional and local players. Market participants reckon that in the longer term, especially after Emu, there will probably be room in the Danish market for at most the two big banks.

<P>
Of the two, Den Danske seems the least enthusiastic about embarking on domestic acquisition trails. "I don't foresee very clearly an active role by our bank in any future consolidation in the home market," says S&oslash;rensen. "On the other hand, while we are now enjoying the benefits of economic growth and lower provisions, harder times might be around the corner. There could be a situation in which we were called upon by the authorities to help bail out smaller banks in trouble. In that case I could not rule out the possibility of getting involved in some rationalization process, as a result of friendly persuasion by the central bank or in our own interest. But this is not a high priority for us."

<P>
<B>Setting pricing</B>

<P>
Unibank's Krarup, on the other hand, sees opportunities for further rationalization in the domestic market as the banking sector becomes more polarized between the big players and smaller local banks. Three or four years ago, he says, the small banks and niche players set the pricing in the market. Today this is in the hands of the big banks. The smaller banks, says Krarup, are going to find market conditions even tougher when Emu is instituted. The two large banks can build up a system of access to a euro-based source of funding, but small or medium-sized regional players lack sufficient international exposure or contacts to do so.

<P>
"We are open to discussion," he says. "It is quite feasible that some of the smaller and medium-sized banks might like to acquire a larger identity.  From a shareholder's point of view I think it makes more sense to expand and maximize profits on our existing customer base."

<P>
Krarup says Unibank's overall strategy is to broaden its existing business network, attract new customers and "tell the market that if somebody would like to join Unibank we are willing to discuss that possibility".&#009;*


<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>



<!-- This document was created using BeyondPress(TM) 2.0 -436010. -->
</BODY></HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-68</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B040-125</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.01/em.96.01.5.html 194.217.137.48 19970114125132 text/html 42113
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:50:24 GMT
Last-modified: Thu, 07 Nov 1996 12:40:23 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 41876
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:January 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine:January 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00012200 Russian Federation -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
January1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>RUSSIA</H3>
<H2>Sitting out the Russian winter </H2>
<H4>Russian banks and brokers face a bleak winter. Equity business generated
from buying and selling privatization vouchers has dried up, and Russian
companies - in urgent need of capital - will not be ready to access the
international capital markets for another two to three years. Peter Lee
looks at brokers' efforts to bolster the value of Russian company shares
and to keep the foreign investors biting </H4>
During the last few weeks of 1995, equity traders in Moscow all but gave
up on the slumping Russian stock market. Turnover volumes fell to a meagre
$40 million a week, down from $100 million a day at the peak of stock market
activity last June. Instead of quoting share prices, bored traders offered
spreads on the share of the popular vote the Communist party might win in
the country's parliamentary elections on December 17. Early in November,
the pessimistic Russian and foreign bankers were quoting 33% to 35% for
the Communists. By early December, the mood was better, as expectations
for Communist successes fell to between 17% and 19%. <BR>
<BR>
But hopes that the recent government reform policies would survive the elections
failed to boost the stock market back to the high levels seen during August
and September 1994 and the summer of 1995, when speculative foreign buyers
rushed into stocks. Even the best-known Russian companies suffered dramatic
declines in their share prices during the second half of last year. <BR>
<BR>
LUKoil shares traded as high as $7.50 during the summer but fell to $3.80
by late November. Norilsk Nickel fell from $14 to $3.85, shares in vehicle
company Kamaz fell from $6 to $3, Rostelekom fell from $7.45 to $4.10. Oil
company Tomskneft fell from $10 to $3. And there have been other even more
dramatic crashes, such as oil company Komineft from $24 to $2.20 and Surgutneftegas
from $0.55 to $0.11. The Moscow Times index of leading shares rose from
100 in September 1994 to over 120 in October 1994, fell to 60 in May last
year, rose again to over 90 in June, before falling back to 60 at the end
of 1995. <BR>
<BR>
Mid-December brought some relief. One Russian broker began buying up shares
- in what the market saw as a concerted effort by a large foreign portfolio
investor to buy in at the bottom of the market. Prices nudged up. Russian
equity brokers hope other big western buyers will follow, attracted by Russia's
improving economic fundamentals - monthly inflation down to 4% from 16%
early last year, a stable rouble, and hard currency and gold reserves rebuilt
to $12 billion from $1 billion a year ago. But politics - presidential elections
are set for June - will make for a volatile stock market. &quot;For the
next two or three years, the Russian market is likely to perform in phases,
with large movements up and down of 60% and more, and high volatility,&quot;
predicts Henry Anstey, director at ING Barings. <BR>
<BR>
Amidst all the gloom, it is worth remembering that Russian capital markets
have developed with impressive speed. Some 50% to 60% of the economy has
been transferred into private hands within the last two years. A stock market,
capitalized at around $20 billion, has grown up, along with a professional
brokers' association, a screen-based trading system, a securities and exchange
commission, a shareholders' association, some independent share registries
and plans for a national depository and clearing system. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Thin spreads, harder times</B> <BR>
<BR>
Ironically, these very successes spell trouble for some Russian brokers.
They have a tough winter ahead of them and some may not survive it. Many
have emerged in the last two years, and until recently they thrived by buying
cheap vouchers and stocks in Russian regions from the workers of privatized
industries and the public, and selling them at a profit in Moscow. But that
business is played out. Volumes have fallen, spreads have narrowed as a
result of improvements in stock market infrastructure, and some segments
of the broking business have dried up completely. Last year, dealing spreads
on shares in Russian blue-chip stocks - the 30 or so most actively traded
names - were around 4% to 5%, while spreads in illiquid stocks of the more
obscure companies ranged from 50% to 100%. Now spreads have contracted to
2% for blue chips and to between 25% to 40% for illiquid stocks. <BR>
<BR>
In part, this reflects gradual improvements in the system for registering
purchases and sales of shares, and settling trades. A year ago all trades
were over the counter and could have taken from two weeks to one month to
settle. Now 10% to 15% of trades are conducted via screens on the electronic
Russian Trading System (RTS), bringing greater transparency to pricing.
Two Moscow-based counterparties with all their documentation in order might
settle a trade in one day. <BR>
<BR>
To the intense frustration of larger brokers, stock-trading and settlement
mechanisms have not yet improved sufficiently to attract large volumes of
foreign money that would boost values. <BR>
<BR>
Just as frustrating for the armies of foreign investment bankers who have
regularly trekked to Moscow and points east over the last two years, the
process of bringing Russian companies to the international markets has proved
longer and slower than many of them at first hoped. &quot;There won't be
international public market transactions out of Russia for 12 months,&quot;
warns Boris Jordan, president and chief executive of newly created Renaissance
Capital and until last May co-head of Russian operations for CS First Boston,
the most active international investment bank in the country. &quot;There
is no proper domestic market infrastructure, no audited financial statements
from Russian companies and what's more, very little interest in compliance
by the Russian corporate community.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But Russian companies are crying out for funding. Following privatization,
many enjoyed a short period of grace when they thrived by avoiding taxes
and using cheap energy. That situation could not last. This year and next,
the new company owners will seek working capital and long-term funding from
the capital markets. For those investment banks and brokers that can survive
a little longer in Russia, the good times may be just ahead. &quot;This
winter will force numerous small brokerages to close down. Some larger ones
will either merge or go bankrupt,&quot; predicts Jordan. &quot;Even the
strong Russian banks and brokers will not survive just from broking equity.
They must either diversify or be bought.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
That buyers will come forward - at least one large international investment
bank is now debating whether to set up an office in Moscow or acquire a
Russian broker - demonstrates the enduring allure of Russia despite the
depressed state of the stock market. Another international investment bank
recently planned the budget for its modest-sized Moscow office. It expects
to earn at the very least $10 million in 1996 and maybe as much as $25 million,
if markets are favourable. It hopes to make as much as $50 million in 1997,
just three years after setting up. <BR>
<BR>
It is easy to understand the allure. Russia has the lowest ratio of market
capitalization to potential economic output of any large country. &quot;People
will make real killings in Russia,&quot; predicts Charles Harman, partner
at MC Securities, the brokerage firm headed by Hans-J&ouml;rg Rudloff. &quot;Russia
is so cheap compared to other emerging markets, and investors that were
not thinking about the country a year ago, now are.&quot; MC Securities
spent three weeks last year marketing a Russian index fund. Attendances
at roadshows - 120 investors in London, 75 in Paris, 160 at various stops
in Switzerland - were reminiscent of a multi-billion dollar developed market
privatization, not a small emerging market country fund. <BR>
<BR>
Although capital markets business has been no more than a trickle, foreign
investor interest is mounting. Bankers in Russia were particularly pleased
by the reception given to a $22.5 million private placement of American
depositary receipts (ADRs) representing shares in Moscow electricity utility
Mosenergo, led by Salomon Brothers. Although small - the deal was restricted
to the amount of its own shares Mosenergo held as treasury stock - the deal
attracted large blue-chip international investors from Europe and America,
including US mutual funds which are restricted in the markets they can invest
in by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). According to John
Parker, head of emerging market equity sales at Salomon Brothers in London:
&quot;One large American client bought ADRs for its $2 billion utility fund,
not for its emerging markets funds. That's the goal. That's what we are
after. So far, up to $2 billion of foreign money has been dedicated to Russia
by hedge funds and specialist investors. If we continue only supplying stock
to these investors, this will be a small business. Our aim is to access
the hundreds of billions of dollars in general global equity funds.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Mosenergo is the type of company that isn't supposed to exist in Russia.
It has a strong management, reasonably transparent financial statements,
dependable earnings protected by regulated tariffs and very little debt.
One or two investors offered to buy the whole Mosenergo deal. In the end,
Salomon Brothers placed it with 10 to 20 different institutions. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Custodial safeguards</B> <BR>
<BR>
In designing the Mosenergo ADR structure, Bank of New York and Salomon Brothers
added several features designed to protect international investors against
registry risk. Others are modifying their approach. Chase Manhattan has
worked harder than any foreign bank to solve this problem - by inspecting
the registrars of leading Russian companies and signing performance contracts
with several. That makes Chase the only subcustodian in Russia that the
American SEC has approved for regulated mutual funds to use for direct investments
in Russian shares. Other banks are following suit and writing modified versions
of its contracts with <BR>
registrars. <BR>
<BR>
For example, Chase undertook as one part of its contract to inform investors
if it saw something untoward at a registrar. Bank of New York placed more
responsibility on Mosenergo under the contract for its ADR issue. &quot;The
issuer has taken on certain responsibilities as to the performance of the
registrar,&quot; says Christopher Kearns, assistant vice-president at Bank
of New York. &quot;It will not guarantee to cover losses arising from registrar
risk, but if for example, we see that share purchases have not been registered,
we will inform Mosenergo which will then put pressure on the registrar,
which is Mosenergo's paid agent.&quot; That contract was enough for US law
firm Skadden Arps to decide that the ADRs would be eligible for US mutual
funds to buy. <BR>
<BR>
Although small, the Mosenergo deal was ground-breaking. Most investment
banks in Russia admit to wishing they, and not Salomon Brothers, had led
it. In four months, the issuer produced a prospectus, which included a Russian
audit worked over by KPMG and a description of the company's operations,
plant, bad-debt allowances - designed to enable investors to compare it
with utilities in other emerging and developed countries. &quot;We showed
that, with the right structure and disclosure from a good company, it is
possible to generate significant demand for Russian stock,&quot; says James
Dannis, managing director for Russia and CIS at Salomon Brothers in Moscow.
He estimates there was $60 million of demand for the issue. <BR>
<BR>
Martin Andersson, director of Moscow-based brokerage Brunswick, says: &quot;Until
eight or nine months ago, no-one had heard of Mosenergo. Now it's a blue
chip. If you look beyond the big natural-resource companies, there are exciting
opportunities in pulp and paper, shipping, regional phone companies and
utilities. The challenge is to identify the small handful of potential winners
in each sector. Because any company now with good management that can raise
some finance has a fantastic chance to establish strong market share.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Still, Mosenergo was not a routine sell. At a roadshow in Boston, one American
fund manager asked Mosenergo's president, Nestor Serebryanikov, what the
biggest risk of investing in his company was. He replied: &quot;The biggest
risk is that you will lose everything.&quot; Political uncertainty, even
more than problems of stock market infrastructure, weighs heavily on share
prices - especially after a year when American investors could have scored
30% returns at home. The Mosenergo deal was priced at $30 - the bottom end
of its indicated range - despite the strong interest. Its share price has
since fallen back to $27. <BR>
<BR>
LUKoil's $320 million convertible bond, the only other large international
placement from Russia last year, was something of a disappointment. American
oil company Atlantic Richfield bought $250 million, and without its participation
the deal would not have worked. Institutional investors took up just $70
million of bonds, not the $145 million originally sought. The terms and
structure were partly responsible for this disappointing reception. Bonds
were zero-coupon and mandatorily convertible into equity this April at a
price of just over $6. In early December, LUKoil shares traded at around
$4. The convertibles do not offer investors a current coupon - the traditional
downside protection of a convertible bond. They are more a forward investment
in LUKoil's equity. <BR>
<BR>
The deal shows that investors still harbour reservations about Russia. &quot;High-risk
foreign capital has been in Russia for two years and so far has made zero
returns,&quot; says Jordan. &quot;The interest of the international community
is limited. People have talked a lot about cheap values. We, as Russian
investment bankers, now have to prove the point by realizing investments
for our clients and showing them real gains.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Wall Street beckons</B> <BR>
<BR>
This year the level of interest among international investors, beyond the
50 or so hedge funds and specialists already active, will be tested. The
shares of more Russian companies will begin trading in ADR form. Last September,
the American SEC announced it was sufficiently comfortable with the workings
of the Russian market to consider filings for Level I ADRs from Russian
companies. Both Bank of New York and Citibank have secured mandates from
several Russian companies to set up ADR programmes. LUKoil's should be operational
from the beginning of this year. According to its agent, the Bank of New
York, LUKoil's final application was delayed only by a compulsory waiting
period of 40 days following the company's sale of convertible bonds. Other
ADR programmes are likely to follow soon, for long-distance and international
telephone company Rostelecom, oil company Chernogorneft, energy company
United Energy Systems and department store GUM. A handful of companies may
follow Mosenergo and attempt to raise funds through private placements of
ADRs with 144A investors. Most though - perhaps as many as 10 - will opt
for Level I programmes during the first half of the year. <BR>
<BR>
In theory, these should be a first step for Russian companies to open themselves
up to foreign investment, and should lead the way to more substantial fund-raising
through international equity issues beginning perhaps as soon as late 1996,
but more likely during the first half of 1997. &quot;These very large companies
need so much money - billions of dollars each over a number of years - that
they have to make a start on mechanisms for raising that,&quot; says Stephen
Marquadt, director at Merrill Lynch, which is advising Rostelecom. &quot;If
we could raise $1 billion for Rostelecom tomorrow, they could use it productively.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Russia is likely to launch a Eurobond next year and some large Russian companies
will follow suit. But it will be tough for credit analysts at bond investors
to work through their balance sheets. Most of these billions will have to
come from equity investment. &quot;The capitalization of the Russian equity
market will be larger than all the markets in Latin America within five
years time,&quot; Marquadt predicts. The process of preparing for an ADR
programme should help Russian companies to understand the information foreign
investors require and to develop their own internal models for projecting
earnings and capital requirements. <BR>
<BR>
Level I programmes are the simplest form of ADR. They allow for over-the-counter
trading in receipts. They do not require additional financial reporting
to international accounting standards (IAS), nor do they raise capital for
the companies. Some bankers in Moscow question whether, amid considerable
excitement at the prospect of ADRs, Russian companies have fully understood
these limitations. &quot;I think there is considerable confusion among Russian
companies. And there will be some disappointment when they find that these
instruments do not raise capital nor double their share price overnight,&quot;
says Dannis at Salomon Brothers. &quot;Few Russian companies have worked
out what it takes to create an active secondary market in their shares.
I think we will see some ADR programmes begin with no roadshow, no disclosure
of information by management and they will be unsuccessful. Because confidence
in the Russian market is so fragile, that could look bad for the whole market.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Even if ADRs enable previously excluded foreign investors to buy Russian
stocks, there are other issues beyond technical ones that outside investors
want to see addressed. If investors were fixated on registry fraud in 1994,
this year they will increasingly look at the broader question of corporate
governance - who runs Russian companies, for what motives and according
to what controls. There are some startling differences in approach. LUKoil
is generally portrayed as one of the more attractive investments in Russia.
Charles Ryan director at United Financial Group (UFG), a Moscow-based broker
with links to Paribas, says: &quot;LUKoil's management consolidated their
power at the company quite early on after privatization. Now they are very
concerned with building a major oil company, expanding their networks, participating
in international consortia. As part of that, they have a very clever capital
markets strategy, bringing in a foreign bank to run the registry. They hope
to increase the transparency of the registry and so increase the value of
their shares.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A rule of thumb in identifying Russian companies which are beginning to
be run for shareholder benefit is to look at those compnies which have appointed
western auditors to prepare IAS audits. Companies will need to file these
for three years before they can launch public international equity deals
that are listed on a reputable stock exchange. The first listing of a Russian
stock in New York or London will be the sign that Russia has been accepted
by international investors. One investment banker recalls a recent call
from an obscure manufacturing company in Siberia announcing that it wanted
to list on New York the following month. In fact, it is unlikely that any
Russian company will do so before mid-1997. <BR>
<BR>
It is the increasingly familiar names which have armies of western accountants
working through their books: LUKoil, Rostelecom, truck manufacturer Kamaz,
Purneftegaz, energy company RAO UES, Yugansneftegas, Mosenergo, Irkutskenergo,
Komineft, Megionneftegas, Chernogorneftegas, Kondpetroleum. It's a painstaking
process. According to Kenneth Crawford, head of KPMG's more than 400-strong
practice in Russia: &quot;Even though the chief accountant of a Soviet factory
was personally responsible if so much as a pencil went missing, it's unsafe
to think you can take an old Russian balance sheet, make a few key adjustments
and produce an international-standard balance sheet. A few of the old source
documents may be useful, but it is almost better to go in and construct
anew. &quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>The struggle for stakes</B> <BR>
<BR>
Many Russian companies are not ready for this process. They are still caught
up in a scramble for control of their assets. Powerful interests including
politicians, company managers and Russian banks have no desire to take actions
which will drive share prices up. They are too busy fighting to win control
of those shares as cheaply as possible. If anything, they want to drive
prices down. Cynical brokers in Moscow were not too surprised when news
of a large previously undisclosed tax liability at oil giant Yukos leaked
out, just two weeks before the completion of its highly controversial loans-for-shares
and investment tender privatization deals. They will likely see Menatep
Bank emerge with control over a large stake in oil company Yukos from a
bid widely thought to be supported by Yukos management. Menatep Bank is
also agent for the auction. Clearly, it did not want to overpay for shares.
<BR>
<BR>
An investment banker in Russia reports that his firm won two mandates for
large convertible bonds last year. These are a sensible vehicle for companies
to raise capital. Scarcely any Russian company will have three years of
IAS accounts before the middle of next year. A good way to raise funds would
be to sell bonds now with a reasonable coupon, convertible into equity after
mid-1997. A strong Russian company might command reasonable terms - despite
the prevailing gloom in the stock market - if investors think that the company
will have good financial reports by 1997 and that the whole infrastructure
of the Russian market will continue to improve. But the deals never got
off the ground. Why? &quot;Various interested parties did not want convertibles
with high premiums because they thought this might set a new high floor
for the share prices.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Brokers contrast the situation at LUKoil with that at Yukos and at Sidanko,
another oil company. In December, 51% of Sidanko's shares were due to be
auctioned under the government's loans-for-shares scheme. Sidanko has plentiful
reserves but its production sites and refineries are widely dispersed and
need substantial investment. Management is described as weak by many brokers.
Banks winning control of a 51% block might dominate the company and even
fire many of its managers. But only after one group consolidates control
will Sidanko, and other Russian companies like it, be run for the benefit
of shareholders. <BR>
<BR>
That will be the theme for later in 1996 and 1997 among Russian companies
which have state holdings that are falling below 50%. Companies will start
to sell assets, consolidate, merge, lay people off. But until the scramble
for control is over, &quot;in Moscow, the concept of portfolio investment
has little impact&quot;, says Harman at MC Securities. &quot;Russians buy
to control assets, not to take a portfolio view on companies' potential
long-term earnings growth.&quot; And when Russian companies do open up to
outside investors and try to raise capital, they will be looking for portfolio
investment in minority holdings. They will not wish to concede control.
<BR>
<BR>
Covering many of these companies during the battle for control is a difficult
task for foreign brokers. Few Russian companies are open about their results,
their profitability, even what other companies they own, for fear of being
hit with high tax demands from the government. They often lie. One Russian
securities analyst proffers a report on a Russian shipping company: &quot;Treat
this as a draft,&quot; he warns. &quot;There are one or two points we are
not clear on. Particularly, we don't know who owns this company.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Research means relationships</B> <BR>
<BR>
The whole process of conducting research on Russian companies is much more
akin to classic corporate finance activity in any other country. &quot;Clearly,
just putting investors into one blue chip or another is no way to succeed,&quot;
says Christopher Van Riet, associate director at Russian broker Alliance
Menatep. &quot;Most brokerage houses have their pet projects.&quot; These
start with research reports on companies and hopefully develop into private
placements or even public deals. Alliance Menatep for example is working
with regional telephone company Irkutsk Electrosviaz. Alliance Menatep points
out that the company has achieved both volume and margin growth in the last
18 months by focusing on long-distance and international traffic. It pitches
the company as the &quot;Russian baby Bell of choice&quot; which is positioning
itself eventually to circumvent Rostelecom's strong position in these most
profitable sectors. <BR>
<BR>
To date, the stock is thinly-traded, with a free float of 22% and just 5%
in western hands. To researchers like Van Riet, it's an example of the strong
company stories that lie beyond the more obvious oil and gas giants. Clearly,
Alliance Menatep hopes to be involved in financing the company's future
investment in modernization - perhaps in partnership with an international
investment bank. But the firm has to work hard at its relationship. Other
brokers have noticed Irkutsk and are pitching services to it. And the Russian
brokers remember that while Brunswick had a close relationship with Mosenergo,
Salomon Brothers led its landmark international placement. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;You need to talk to the company every day and remind them that they
are important,&quot; says Van Riet. &quot;And people at the firm have to
remember that the company is the customer.&quot; Research is of doubtful
value, in any case, to investors. Foreign liquidity is more likely to drive
prices than company fundamentals. One broker recalls discovering that a
large Russian oil company was about to make a dilutive new share issue to
finance a buy-out of part of the company from the state. The broker told
investors this was bad news and that the share price should fall. Instead,
it rocketed because two country funds had just closed and had begun buying
any blocks of stock in large Russian companies they could find. <BR>
<BR>
Many research reports are directed at developing relationships with Russian
companies rather than being primarily investor-driven. Brokers continue
to produce research because it provides an introduction to company managers.
Many company managers own substantial blocks of shares in their companies,
which they acquired for next to nothing. Brokers will explain that by producing
research, and familiarizing foreign investors with the company, they are
beginning a process which might raise the share price and make managers
extremely wealthy. Brokers also hope that companies will turn to them to
lead new issues in the future. Harman says: &quot;There is an enormous amount
of potential business in Russia. Most companies want money. And investment
banking relationships with these companies are up for grabs.&quot; It's
a thought with which investment bankers in Russia will console themselves
during the bleak winter months. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Beyond bread and butter</B> <BR>
<BR>
For now, some Russian companies are financing themselves through small private
placements of equity, with foreign institutions included. These deals may
be as small as $10 million. They provide bread-and-butter business for new
Russian investment banks like Renaissance, which has just closed a small
placement for restaurant chain Rosinter and is working on a few others.
These deals enable banks to begin relationships with what they hope will
be the giants of the Russian market in a few years - and to make some money
- until the big deals start flowing in earnest. <BR>
<BR>
That should happen before long. &quot;I can scarcely think of a single Russian
company with sufficient working capital, let alone enough development capital
for the big projects like new factories and oil fields,&quot; says Andrew
Cowley, managing director at United City Bank in Moscow. &quot;Eventually,
the banks and other new owners will have to begin financing these companies.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The key to future progress with this huge task may lie in the development
of local markets even more than it does with ADRs and foreign investors.
The often quoted figure for Russian flight capital is $43 billion. Half
of that is the foreign-currency earnings of large Russian exporters held
legitimately in foreign banks. But the other half might slowly flow back
into investments in Russian companies. One foreign banker recalls taking
a recent flight from Moscow to a meeting in Geneva. The plane was packed
with Russians. &quot;They know what the risks and returns are here in Russia,
and now they have a couple of years of experience of returns at Swiss banks.
I imagine many wealthy Russians have been shocked by that experience.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Russia boasts a high savings rate. Its insurance companies are growing fast,
although for the moment they are putting most of their funds into high-yielding
government bonds rather than equities. Scandals like the MMM pyramid scheme
may have put many small investors off investment funds but some banks are
exploring ideas to create domestic mutual funds. &quot;In the end,&quot;
says Cowley, &quot;Russia will have Russian capital markets, not Anglo-Saxon
or German ones.&quot; Perhaps the strongest signal that these markets will
develop is the much criticized loans-for-shares deals. &quot;It is enormously
encouraging that, for the first time, Russian investors are putting up large
amounts of cash,&quot; says Jordan. &quot;Once they have risk capital at
stake, they will be forced to restructure those assets to push values up.
They will have to put proper controls in place to attract new money so that
they can get their own capital out.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
 <BR>
<BR>
<B>Towards safer custody</B> <BR>
<BR>
The doubtful status and performance of Russian share registrars has been
one of the greatest obstacles to foreign investment in Russian companies.
The only legal proof of an investor's ownership of shares in a Russian company
is the physical book entry of its name in the registrar's computer records.
Many companies run their own share registries. Investors fear that, because
many Russian company managers dislike the influence of outside shareholders,
unscrupulous managers might simply erase the names of unwanted investors
from their registers, leaving investors with little hope of redress. <BR>
<BR>
In fact, there have been few instances of such criminal behaviour in the
last year. All brokers and bankers in Moscow claim that the problem is overstated
and has not been a big concern since the early days of the Russian stock
market in 1994. Recent market regulations introduced by the Russian SEC
insist that large Russian companies - with over 1,000 shareholders - hand
over their registers to independent companies, and several thousand registrars
now operate within banks' brokerages and as specialist companies around
Russia. <BR>
<BR>
Bank of New York has invested along with IFC, EBRD, the Russian bank Oneximbank
and Nikoil, the share registrar for LUKoil, in an ambitious venture - the
National Registry Company (NRC). This is intended to become a share registrar
for many of Russia's largest and best-known companies. But progress has
been slow. Since it set up last August, NRC has attracted no new Russian
clients to LUKoil. <BR>
<BR>
Foreign investors' doubts are not entirely resolved. The Russian SEC is
good at producing regulations but has almost no capacity to enforce them
or penalize recalcitrant companies. Many have indeed moved their share registries
- but only, it turns out, to separate but wholly owned subsidiaries either
in a Moscow office or at the parent company's own headquarters. Chase Manhattan
has made the most progress in Russia through this minefield. Its Moscow
branch acts as subcustodian and de facto supervisor of Russian registrars
for the Templeton Russia Fund. Chase entered into contracts with several
registrars, which have agreed to maintain specified levels of service, to
submit to monitoring by Chase and to recognize procedures for making claims
for compensation for losses resulting from lapses at the registrar. <BR>
<BR>
Armed with these contracts, Chase was granted status as an eligible subcustodian
under the American SEC's rule 17f-5. That makes the Templeton Russia Fund
the first American mutual fund allowed to invest directly in Russian securities.
Peter Zorn, who ran Chase's custody operation in Russia for several months
before returning to London to oversee all the bank's custody efforts in
Russia and central Europe, says: &quot;While there is still no functioning
centralized registry or depository, we are seeing some consolidation in
the regions whereby, for example, a number of issuers might move their registries
to a local bank or independent firm. It's quite a positive step for these
companies to understand the need for more standard registry procedures.
And there is some comfort for investors. Often these do employ decent systems
with an adequate audit trail.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But suspicions linger. Investors wonder, for example, just how sophisticated
independent registrars are at backing up their systems. Many are small companies
with few assets to press claims against, if investors suffer losses as a
result of accident or incompetence. As one foreign banker admits: &quot;You
could end up suing just two or three people and a PC.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
So far, Chase Manhattan is the only 17f-5 eligible subcustodian in Russia.
This is a valuable service which it will only provide to a select list of
existing US and international investing clients. Other banks and brokers
are examining different solutions to the registry problem. Some banks, such
as Credit Suisse, ING and Citibank, hope to follow Chase Manhattan's lead.<BR>
<BR>
<BR> 
<H3>The Caribbean route to Moscow </H3>
While brokers and bankers wait to see how ADR programmes will work, they
have also been exercising their ingenuity devising other mechanisms to attract
outside investors which would not normally deal in Russia. Best known are
the Russian depositary receipts (RDCs) devised by ING Barings. This programme
allows investors to buy certificates in a Cayman Islands trust which, in
turn, holds title to shares of Russian companies. The actual shares are
held by a subcustodian, ING's bank in Moscow. The certificates settle through
Euroclear, Cedel or the US Deposit Trust Company (DTC), and are eligible
for mutual funds to buy. Before including a company's shares in the RDC
programme, ING Barings inspects its registrar and gauges management's attitude
to the rights of outside shareholders. The American SEC has declared RDCs
eligible investments for US mutual funds, and they - along with UK pension
funds and specialist emerging market investors - have been active buyers,
according to Graham Marshall, assistant director at ING Barings. &quot;Most
of these are long-term holders. Investors' requests determine which companies
we try to include in the programme. The companies' attitudes towards foreign
shareholders are usually black or white. We only include those keen to see
more foreign names on their share register.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
An index of 11 companies now included in the RDC programme showed a 20%
outperformance - from its inception in March to November - against the Moscow
Times index of 50 leading ING Russian stocks. Partly, this is because the
programme covers stronger companies, which are more attuned to enhancing
shareholder value than the average. Among them are Rostelecom, LUKoil, Mosenergo,
confectioner Red October, Chernogorneft, Far East Shipping Company and Irkutskenergo.
Another factor in this share-price performance may well be the inflow of
foreign money, following inclusion in the programme. Turnover in RDCs in
the last six months has been in excess of $150 million. <BR>
<BR>
Rivals of ING Barings say this is not wildly impressive. And they make two
criticisms of the mechanism: investors rely for liquidity on one market-maker,
ING Barings itself, and holders of trust certificates have little protection
against registrar malpractice. &quot;The Cayman Islands trust doesn't have
its name on the register. If ING's Moscow subsidiary has its name wiped
off, certificate holders will have no recourse,&quot; says one banker. &quot;It
would be less risky to buy shares directly through a broker in Moscow.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
ING Barings considered following the Mosenergo example of asking the companies
to take responsibility for registrar performance, but decided that this
was ultimately of limited value because it might take many years for an
aggrieved investor to pursue a company through the Russian courts. Its main
safeguard is to examine the registrar's systems and ensure that they follow
basic rules - for example, holding a separate copy of the share register
overnight in a bank as a precaution against share ownership records being
destroyed by a fire at the registrar's office. <BR>
<BR>
United Financial Group (UFG), a Moscow-based broker with links to Paribas,
is working on a repackaging product which sounds very similar to RDCs. Charles
Ryan, director at UFG, describes it as a dematerialized share product, called
Russian equity trust certificates. The firm will buy shares in Russian companies
and will employ Chase Manhattan's custody system, and Paribas will place
certificates in an offshore trust, backed by those shareholdings, with international
investors. Certificates will be cleared and settled through DTC. The trust
will be designed to allow investors to tailor exposure to individual stocks,
certain sectors or other baskets of shares. Other Moscow brokers have considered
one-off securitizations for Russian stocks such as LUKoil, although they
have been deterred by the imminent start-up of its ADR programme. <BR>
<BR>
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell has set up a holding company to own shares in Gazprom
and has marketed depositary receipts in the company to international investors.
Another new initiative is MC Securities' index fund. This is meant simply
to track the Moscow Times 50 index. It is designed as an alternative to
mixed Russian investment funds which may buy private equity or other illiquid
assets which they may carry at cost for five years before realizing. The
risk for buyers of these funds is that the price of shares in them will
underperform until assets are realized. <BR>
<BR>
Other investment bankers see this as the correct approach to take. Renaissance
is running a direct investment fund - the Sputnik fund - of over $100 million.
That is enough money to buy substantial stakes in some fairly large Russian
companies and the fund's managers have interested themselves in the Russian
government's auctions of loans for shares. <BR><BR>
<H3>Relative performance - RDC index versus MT50 </H3>
<IMG SRC="images/em.96.01.5.gif" WIDTH="344" HEIGHT="216" ALIGN=middle NATURALSIZEFLAG=
"0"><BR>
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-69</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B047-25</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123314 text/html 42095
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:32:06 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 18:10:52 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 41855
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>

<H2> <B>Financial shocks: where next?</B> </H2> 

<P>
<a href="em.96.09.1a.html"> What keeps them awake at night? </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1b.html"> The fear that dares to speak its name </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1c.html"> Risk management's final frontier </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1d.html"> Foreign passport, who needs one? </b></a>
<P>

<H4>Financial crises have
a habit of hitting where the world least expects. No-one predicted that disaster
would strike Barings in Singapore, the Mexican peso, Daiwa Bank, the copper
market, Morgan Grenfell Asset Management &#173; to mention only the worst
debacles of the past year. So where is next? Over the 25 pages that
follow, <I>Euromoney</I> writers identify some possibilities. A crash in credit
cards? Gridlock in foreign exchange settlements? A catastrophic loss of
confidence in Hong Kong after the handover to China? First, Brian Caplen reports
on the results of brainstorming with forecasters and analysts and highlights some
dangers ahead</B> </H4> <P> 

<P>
<P>

<H3> <B> CREDIT CARDS </B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Cracks in the plastic </B> </H3> 

<P> Credit cards aren't what they used to
be. When they were first sold, they were marketed to financially sound bank
customers. Their relatively high interest rates reflected not so much risk as the
fact that they weren't intended to be used for long-term loans. They were
unsecured, but banks chose customers carefully. But credit cards turned out to be
money-spinners for the issuers. That meant more banks scrabbling for market
share. In turn, this implied less discrimination about customers and lower
interest rates &#173; but also a frightening increase in defaults.

<P> The result is that credit cards now head the banking risk list. Credit cards
represent a risk so severe that defaults could create a debt crisis as
significant as LDC and property loans in the 1980s. Loan volumes are huge &#173;
$360 billion in the US alone, more than twice Brazil's foreign debt. Loans on
cards are showing rapid growth: in the US it has averaged 20% annually for the
past three years, with some banks expanding their portfolios 500% in that period.
Not surprisingly, as the quality of borrowers diminishes an increasing proportion
of them are going bankrupt. Bankruptcies have reached record levels &#173; they
are expected to rise 30% to a forecast 1.15 million this year. At a time when the
US economy is healthy, loan losses are almost as high as they were at the height
of the 1991 recession.

<P> So if the economy takes a nose-dive, losses are likely to get completely out
of hand. The banks whose only line of business is credit cards are likely to be
hit first. The crisis will then engulf all major banks.

<P> "Credit cards are the number one risk in banking ... and the pressure can
only intensify if we have an economic recession," says a report by US brokerage
Gerard Klauer Mattison. It warns that unease could spread if a bank were to admit
to difficulties by increasing loan-loss reserves or if regulators were to request
higher capital allocations. The risk manager at a major UK bank says that "credit
cards could certainly be a big issue in the UK and Europe as well as in the US".

<P> In their bid to win market share, banks have waged a marketing blitz. Last
year in the US 7,000 issuers sent out 2.7 billion mailings to attract new
customers. Over the past two years, the average adult American has received 32
mailings offering him $130,000 of credit.

<P> Individual banks have no clear picture of their borrowers' full debt
position; the loans are without collateral and their repayment is a lower
priority than home, car and other loans. Bankruptcy is a relatively easy
procedure with little stigma attached. Half the net losses of large card issuers
result from bankruptcies.

<P> Under extreme conditions, securitization of credit card debt may make banks
more, rather than less, vulnerable to losses. Loans have not been sold on and, if
losses were to rise dramatically, the terms under which cards are securitized
would force them back onto the banks' balance sheets. No capital has been set
aside to cover such losses. On the contrary: "A prime reason for securitization
on the part of card issuers is to reduce their capital and loan-loss reserve
requirements," says George Salem, senior vice-president of Gerard Klauer
Mattison.

<P> If it comes, the US credit card crunch will expose banks to large loan losses
that will show up their capital inadequacies. Banks wishing to avoid disaster
should review their portfolios now.

<H3> <B> PROJECT FINANCE </B> </H3>

<H3> <B>"Equity without the upside"</B> </H3>

<P> Project finance has always
been a risky business. "Lending to a project is like equity without the upside,"
says Philip Wood, partner with UK law firm Allen &amp; Overy. But market growth
&#173; to nearly $370 billion of outstandings &#173; and erosion of margins have
made it much more so.

<P> Competition has pushed banks to give loans on over-generous and increasingly
loose terms. There have been cases of them lending to power projects without a
power-purchase agreement being in place. An example of this is the development by
PowerGen of the UK of a coal-fired generating plant at Yallourn in Victoria,
Australia. And banks are increasingly prepared to lend without guarantees from an
export credit or multilateral agency. The value of such unguaranteed loans rose
by 79% to $23.3 billion in 1995. They are "an accident waiting to happen", say
many project finance insiders.

<P> Given what competitive pressures have piled on top of the risks inherent in
the business &#173; lending into remote places, dependence on unstable
governments, lack of recourse &#173; it's hard to see how project finance can
avoid a disaster in at least one country or sector. The softest landing would be
if a sector were to fail soon and knock some sense into pricing.

<P> "At the big-ticket end [of lending], banks have been taking their pricing
into aggressive territory. This is most dangerous in project finance because of
the leverage and cross-border elements," says Alan Brown, director of group
credit policy for Barclays Bank. "There could be contagion by product, geography
or sponsor. If one project failed, a bank which had underwritten loans to a
similar project hoping to sell down 80% would no longer be able to do so." Wood
points to the hazard of "creeping expropriation": a government gradually changing
the rules &#173; raising taxes, lowering prices and insisting on localization
&#173; such that a project becomes unviable. Even in developed markets, project
finance is a tricky proposition &#173; witness the problems of Eurotunnel, the
Anglo-French consortium that built the Channel tunnel. In emerging markets, the
list of risks extends to political, currency, market, technology, regulatory and
legal risks. Taken together, not properly priced for, they are a recipe for
disaster.

<H3> <B>LATIN AMERICA</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>A new bank debt crisis</B> </H3> 

<P> Latin America's debt problems
look as if they could return. Debts are building up again and the risk of default
is increasing. Banks that thought bonds, not loans, would cause the problems this
time around are mistaken. They will be dragged in as deeply as before.

<P> If Latin American countries defaulted on their bonds, the banks would be
forced to pick up the pieces &#173; as they did after the 1994 Mexico crisis.
They will advance new loans in place of sovereign bonds. Fairly soon they will be
carrying large and problematic exposures to Latin America. Sorting out these bad
debts will be much more like the LDC debt crisis of the early 1980s than last
year's Mexico bond default. "When capital market flows dry up, the countries go
to the banks and the banks have to lend. They have no choice," says Raphael
Soifer, a banking analyst at investment bank Brown Brothers Harriman.

<P> Soifer continues: "There will be peer pressure, political pressure and
pressure on their own portfolios [of bonds]. Many US banks hope to do a great
deal of banking business in the countries themselves. In order to keep the
government friendly they must support its borrowing needs."

<P> A report by the Institute of International Finance confirms that "total bank
flows [to emerging economies] almost doubled in 1995 to $83 billion ... [This
partly] reflected the temporary restriction in availability of bond finance
following the Mexican crisis."

<P> Besides the fallout from bonds, the banks could be in trouble because of
their generally high level of emerging-market lending &#173; not just to Latin
America. Stealthily &#173; often without telling their shareholders &#173; US
banks are increasing this. In 1995, according to a report from Brown Brothers
Harriman, emerging-market lending increased by 5% on the previous year.

<P> Notable increases in exposure were to Brazil, up 25% to $14 billion;
Argentina, up 8% to $9.8 billion; Indonesia, up 27% to $3.9 billion; China, up
48% to $2.2 billion; India, up 47% to $2.2 billion; South Africa, up 59% to $2
billion; and Turkey, up 55% to $2 billion. Of the $83 billion total exposure, the
six US money centre banks account for $63.2 billion, almost as much as their
combined tangible common equity and 5% of their total assets.

<P> Emerging economies are financing ever-larger current-account deficits with
short-term borrowings, so crises look inevitable. Many analysts argue that the
lending banks are better capitalized than they were in the 1980s when a systemic
collapse was narrowly avoided. But this time they have extensive derivatives
positions on emerging market instruments. If these turn out badly, there could be
spectacular failures.

<H3> <B>EMERGING-MARKET DERIVATIVES</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Engineering in the dark</B> </H3>

<P> There are risks that financial
engineering cannot overcome, especially in emerging markets. These markets are
typically illiquid, volatile and lacking in transparency. If new derivative and
structured instruments further obscure pricing and market intelligence, they may
hasten rather than prevent crashes.

<P> An example is the packaging of direct investments for portfolio investors. A
large holding in a Malaysian or Thai company could be split between many
investors, in packages that perhaps offer capital gains or dividend income. This
enables investors who want to get out to sell their shares back to the bank,
therefore avoiding the problems of illiquidity involved in dealing directly in
the local market. But, if all the investors wanted to sell at once, either the
investment bank would have to take a hit or it would have to try to unload, say,
half a company into a tiny, illiquid stock market.

<P> Systemic risk is heightened because the local governments are unaware of what
is happening. On their books, such capital inflows look like long-term direct
investment. In reality, they are short-term portfolio flows. Their economies are
more exposed to capital flight &#173; and Mexico-style crashes &#173; than they
realize.

<P> "Derivatives in emerging markets can affect capital-flow accounting," says an
IMF official. "What looks like foreign direct investment can be portfolio
investment but won't be accounted as short-term liabilities." The source notes
that since derivatives written on emerging markets are often over-the-counter
instruments, local governments are more than likely unaware of them, making
economic management more difficult.

<P> Wall Street bankers reckon OTC derivatives contracts on the dollar/peso
exacerbated the peso's fall during the 1994-95 Mexican crisis. Structured-note
contracts worth $20 billion were taken out between Mexican banks and US banks on
behalf of Mexican customers, say market participants. When the peso moved down,
margin calls drained close to $4 billion from Mexican coffers in mid-December
1994.

<P> As long as relatively opaque OTC instruments dominate relatively transparent
exchange-traded ones and underlying markets are illiquid, the shocks will
continue.


<H3> <B>AGRICULTURAL BANKS </B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Europe's agro-nightmare </B> </H3>

<P> In Europe, reform of the
Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) tops the list of likely policy changes that
could harm banks. If subsidies and price supports to farmers are reduced, one or
two French and German banks that specialize in lending to the sector could be
seriously hurt, with wider effects on the banking system.

<P> Growing budgetary pressures in the EU mean reform of the CAP is inevitable.
The critical issue is whether it is gradual or sudden. If budgets were slashed at
a stroke, multitudes of small European farmers could face ruin, taking banks that
lend to them down as well.

<P> "A fundamental change in lending assumptions, such as deregulation of prices
or changes in tax rules, is what frequently causes a banking crisis," says John
Leonard, a director of Salomon Brothers International in London. "In Europe,
reform of the CAP is just the sort of change to facilitate a banking crisis."

<P> A driving force behind CAP reform is the likelihood of enlargement of the EU
to include eastern European countries. Of a 1996 EU budget of around Ecu90
billion ($112.5 billion), some Ecu40 billion is accounted for by agricultural
subsidies. But, if east European states were admitted and subsidies retained
their present form, this could rise by between 30% and 60%. Economists at Union
Bank of Switzerland estimate that admission of the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Poland and the Slovak Republic by 2000 would add 60% to an unreformed EU budget.

<P> If the EU's political goals are to be achieved, the CAP must be trimmed. But
in France, Greece and Italy, where farmers rely heavily on subsidies, there is
solid resistance that could delay reform. Last year a report produced by a group
of UK agricultural experts warned that "leaving reform until the CAP becomes
unmanageable will result in panic measures designed to address immediate
problems". The danger is that a political crisis &#173; such as instability in
Russia &#173; might speed up the timetable for admitting eastern European
countries into the EU before the CAP has been properly reformed.

<H3> <B>SECURITIZATION </B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Damaged reputations</B> </H3> 

<P> A new threat to the good name of banks
has emerged. And its effects will be worse than the derivatives snarl-ups of a
few years ago. At least those affected only individual customers, albeit
important ones like Procter &amp; Gamble and Orange County. But when asset-backed
bonds run into trouble &#173; and no market has a smooth ride for ever &#173;
thousands of investors will turn on banks with unprecedented ferocity. Courts
will be overwhelmed by lawsuits.

<P> Securitization is growing fast: publicly traded asset-backed securities
reached $109 billion in 1995, up 45% on the previous year. The problem is that
investors and borrowers don't fully understand the mechanics of securitization.
Investors are content that the paper they buy is rated triple-A but yields better
than a triple-A sovereign or corporate bond. "Securitization is a machine into
which you often put double-B paper [or loans] at one end and out of the other
comes triple-A," says George Salem, senior vice-president at Gerard Klauer
Mattison. "There is an insatiable appetite for this paper because it is rated
triple-A yet has a better than triple-A yield on it. It's too good to be true."

<P> That these instruments are not a species of alchemy will become clear when a
major <BR> securitized instrument fails or falls substantially in price.
Investors will realize the usual credit and market risks are implicit in their
bonds, but will try to blame the issuing banks for their plight. The banks will
have to decide whether they should pay compensation to protect their image,
though they have done nothing financially untoward.

<P> Borrowers might also enter the fray if they were to discover that loans
negotiated in their name with a bank had been securitized and passed on to
third-party investors. If a homeowner, for example, defaulted or fell into
arrears, he might find that investors rather than the bank were pressing for
repossession. It's easy to see how an anti-bank media campaign could be
orchestrated on the back of the resentment this would generate.

<P> Of all the securitization-linked risks worrying banks, the most serious is
damage to reputation. "If something goes wrong for one bank, it's often bad for
all of us," says Alan Brown, director of group credit policy for UK bank
Barclays. "It may reduce the flow of business to us all. Reputation risk is one
of our most serious threats." To avoid fallout from asset-backed securities
flops, banks need to educate investors now on the instruments' true nature.

<H3> <B>GOVERNMENT DEBT</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>A western European default</B> </H3>
<P> The governments of Italy,
Belgium and Sweden seem disinclined to sort out their countries' public finances.
If they wait much longer the global capital markets will do it for them.

<P> These indebted European nations are failing to make sufficient cuts in social
security spending or to raise taxes to cover it, so their debt-GDP ratios will
rocket. If Italy carries on <I>dolce far niente,</I> its debt/GDP ratio could
reach 700% by 2030. Even Germany's would go over 400% were it to keep on sitting
on its hands. Even with higher interest rates, the Italian government could find
itself unable to roll over a maturing bond and in technical default.

<P> The panic would spread to other highly indebted countries, and other G7
countries and the IMF might be unwilling to underwrite massive bail-outs. The
problems would have to be straightened out the old-fashioned way through mass
bankruptcies, failures and economic stagnation.

<P> "If governments continue going deeper into debt, if they don't face up to the
entitlement issue and the markets don't force them, they could find themselves in
inescapable debt traps," says McKinsey consultant Lowell Bryan.

<P> In their book <I>Market Unbound</I>, Bryan and co-author Diana Farrell draw
out positive and negative forecasts based on government use of savings. Between
1992 and 2002, they estimate, household net financial assets will increase by $12
trillion, half of which will be derived from the US. This is about one-third of
the world's entire stock of financial assets (some $35 trillion). Savings have
rapidly expanded because more and more people in the developed countries are
reaching their high-savings years &#173; between their late 40s and retirement.

<P> These savings are endangered by high-spending governments. In Bryan and
Farrell's worst-case outcome, $10 trillion of them would be gobbled up by
governments with growing debt burdens. Four or five countries could end up with
debt-GDP ratios of 130%, paying real interest rates of 10% upwards and running
real deficits of 13% because of interest costs. Eventually one country would
default and be thrown into economic turmoil.

<P> "Under this worst-case scenario, the world's economy would be devastated, and
it could easily lead to armies marching and to massive social upheaval," the
authors conclude. "This scenario, which is almost unthinkable, can be avoided if
governments pursue the appropriate set of policies."

<H3> <B>US TREASURIES</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Taking on Uncle Sam</B> </H3> 

<P> China is amassing the weapons that
will put it in a position to engage in economic warfare with the US. Its foreign
exchange reserves will reach $100 billion by the end of this year, second only to
Japan's and ahead of those of Germany and the US. (US reserves stood at $85.6
billion at the end of May.) And China's trade surplus with the US overtook
Japan's for the first time in June.

<P> Vast foreign reserves imply the power to move international financial
markets. China is buying Eurobonds and plans to build a portfolio of US
treasuries. Foreign ownership of US debt is the Achilles heel of the US economy.
"The foreign share [of US national debt] has grown sharply during the Clinton
administration from 19.1% in 1992 to 27.5% in March of this year &#173; by far
the highest percentage in American history," wrote Bruce Bartlett, senior fellow
at the US National Center for Policy Analysis in the <I>The Washington Times </I>
in July.

<P> China will soon be able to emulate Japan's position in the treasuries market,
affecting both US bond prices and the dollar. But there's an important difference
&#173; at bottom Japan and the US are allies; the US and China are enemies.

<P> The next time the US threatens China with sanctions for copyright or trade
infringements, China's reply could be a large-scale treasuries sale. The
resulting economic tumult would be felt worldwide. Bond prices and the dollar
would plummet and markets fall into disarray.

<P> To many economists, the fundamental friendliness or hostility of those
holding vast amounts of US paper is of no consequence. The fact that the US is
running huge trade deficits &#173; a record $173.4 billion last year &#173;
funded by foreign money is destabilizing whoever it is borrowing from. In <I>The
Future of Capitalism</I> Lester Thurow writes: "No-one can run a large trade
deficit forever. The United States is very large, it can borrow a lot and sell a
lot before it goes broke, but at some point the world's financial markets will
clamp down upon it just as they clamped down on Mexico."

<H3> <B>CRIME</B> </H3> 

<H3> <B>Mainframes and the mafia</B> </H3> 

<P> Russian crime is big business, so
big that it threatens the world financial system. Russian criminals are an
integral part of the social and political system, able to operate unhindered.
They employ some of the world's top brains. They are capable of stealing from a
foreign bank's computer system, as Citibank learnt in 1994 when around $400,000
was stolen by computer hackers based in St Petersburg.

<P> Russia's next international computer hack will be bigger and more successful.
It could bring down both banks and the system. Extortion by Russian criminal
groups and money-laundering pose similar threats. Banks with Russian assets could
discover that the whole portfolio was rotten. A regulator who decided to
confiscate crime-linked assets would bring banks to their knees.

<P> The troubles go back to the way Russian president Boris Yeltsin brought the
old communist power-brokers and corrupt elements into Russia's reform process
&#173; his "Faustian bargain". Even Yeltsin has admitted the extent of the
problem: "Crime has become problem number one for us. It has acquired such scale
and character that it poses great danger for ... the whole Russian state. Crime
is destroying the economy, interfering with politics and undermining morale."

<P> Internally, the murder rate shows how lawless Russia is &#173; in 1994 there
were 32,000 murders, 21.8 per 100,000 people, roughly twice the US rate.
Externally, the Russian mafia regards western financial institutions as sitting
targets. Banks that fail to respond to extortion will soon learn that the
technology for disrupting their operations has been upgraded. Reports in the
British press in June 1996 claimed cyber-terrorists had extorted $600 million
from banks by threatening to wipe out computer systems with high-intensity,
radio-frequency guns. "Disabling and extortion are far easier to undertake than
the urban fairy tale of the hacker rounding nickels and dimes into his own
account," says John Howell, director of London-based Compliance Methodology
Consultants.

<P> International money-laundering flows, many of which originate in Russia, are
so large they could take over an entire economy. In 1996 total flows arising from
such sources as drugs, prostitution, extortion and outright theft of public
resources were put at between $500 billion and $1 trillion. That's 10 times more
than total aid flows and roughly equivalent to the combined economies of
Switzerland, Sweden and India.

<P> "The sheer size of profits from laundering can seduce entire governments of
poor countries as an attractive alternative to the tough conditions of official
international loans," says Jan Dauman, president and chief executive <BR> of
London-based strategy consultants InterMatrix Group.

<H3> <B>THAILAND</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>The tequila effect</B> </H3> 

<P> Mexico 1994, Thailand 1996? A
Mexico-style collapse looks likely for the fast-growing Asian economy. The
downgrade of its short-term sovereign debt by credit-rating agency Moody's
earlier this month is the latest sign of how serious things are.

<P> Thailand is exhibiting many of the features that characterized the run-up to
Mexico's troubles &#173; a large current account deficit, high levels of
short-term debt and an overvalued currency. And the Thai government seems to be
taking no short-term measures to solve the problems.

<P> With rating agencies and economists all highlighting Thailand's troubles,
there's a danger of a self-fulfilling prophecy. The markets are spooked and a
single piece of bad news could send them into free fall.

<P> It could be a further slowdown in export growth, a bank failure or a
political crisis. The markets would respond by speculating against the baht and
the Bank of Thailand couldn't contain this, for all its $39 billion in foreign
reserves.

<P> Their depletion in a battle for the baht would take them far below Thailand's
$41.1 billion short-term external debt. The central bank would then be unable to
shore up the economy in the face of capital flight. A Thai crash would have
serious knock-on effects in south-east Asia, damaging the region's standing as an
engine of growth.

<P> How did Thailand &#173; like pre-crash Mexico a model of reform &#173; get
into this mess? "Thailand's current difficulties owe a lot to its persistence
with an inflexible exchange rate which led to the contradiction of the central
bank attempting to impose a tight monetary policy to only limited effect," says a
report by the brokerage Asia Equity. "A sharp build-up in foreign debt resulted."

<P> Paradoxically, though, while many of Thailand's difficulties have been caused
by an undervalued currency, the baht is now overvalued. This is harming export
competitiveness and adding to a current account deficit that has reached 8.5% of
GDP.

<P> But if Thailand devalues, it risks setting off a flight of newly arrived
foreign capital. Its hard lessons on fixed exchange rates should be learnt by
other emerging countries before similar fates befall them.

<H3> <B>SOCIAL UNREST</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Underclass struggles</B> </H3> 

<P> With communism dead or dying, the
external threat to capitalism has disappeared. But the internal threat is
increasing. A huge, expanding underclass will make its presence felt.

<P> As technology cuts out unskilled jobs and the axe falls on social spending,
this lumpenproletariat will hit back. It will be organized, will cause social
disruption, and could take over power if its needs were not answered.

<P> "You can squeeze people for a long time, but eventually they start fighting
back. When they do, they usually win," said a labour activist at last month's
Democratic convention in Chicago. The backdrop to his remarks was TV footage of
the 1968 Chicago Democratic convention, when police and anti-war protesters
fought bloody battles that helped speed US withdrawal from Vietnam.

<P> No political party in Europe or the US has a solution to widening inequality
and joblessness. Force will drive change. In the US, real wages for the bottom
20% of males have fallen 23% in the past 20 years. The combined forces of
technology and global capitalism &#173; with unskilled jobs going where costs are
lowest &#173; will ensure they drop further. The result will be rising crime,
poverty and urban decay.

<P> In western Europe, relatively strong labour unions keep wage levels up; the
cost is higher unemployment. The crisis there is being kept at bay by higher
social spending. But the gravy train will have to stop, either just before or
immediately after some European countries go broke. The US and Europe will then
be in about the same position.

<P> US president Bill Clinton has no solution but he has identified the problem:
"The cast-offs and the drop-outs who were left out of the boom of the 1980s and
who are now living in a world apart &#173; they don't vote, they don't work,
don't report crimes, don't necessarily send their children to school, and
sometimes don't even have a telephone to receive calls. And in the vacuum in
which they live, it is unclear whether society holds any claim on them or power
to censure them."

<P> But the underclass will start exercising its power. With nothing to lose,
urban terrorism will be a tempting option. Banks will find revenues from new
business being eaten up by the costs of insurance and extra security. Governments
will have to spend on policing what they save on welfare cuts. Bankers may start
pressing governments for long-term investments in education and skills. But the
payoff will be decades away. Meanwhile, the financial system may collapse under
the strain.

<H3> <B>US STOCK MARKET</B> </H3> 

<H3> <B>It's the liquidity, stupid</B> </H3> 

 <P> At worst it will be a crash, at
best a large correction. But it has to hit the US stock market before long.
Equities are overvalued, but most market participants are miscalculating the
impact of their being brought down to realistic levels.

<P> Equity players think the pain should be moderate because they've had time to
prepare. Many set great store by their new approaches to risk &#173; quantitative
techniques, marking to market, hedging strategies and a focus on liquidity.

<P> They believe these techniques will see them through. They will be
disappointed. The banks' latest risk models will show as many shortcomings in the
next equities crash as their old ones did in the last. In fact the new techniques
will even contribute to market volatility.

<P> US economist Henry Kaufman believes quantitative methods giving numerical
values to the risk of a security or credit provide false comfort. "Computer
models are based on past relationships, and they cannot fully give adequate
weight to something that is just changing or is about to happen," he says. "But
there has been an added degree of risk-taking because of the certainty of using
numbers."

<P> Kaufman argues that the extent of US households' equity investment and heavy
consumer debt is worrying. A sharp fall in stocks and higher interest rates could
produce setbacks in consumer spending and credit use much greater than cyclical
expectations.

<P> In a crash, the robustness of institutions is called into question. Players
have tried to draw accurate, up-to-date pictures of their financial health by
marking to market. But Kaufman argues that this is a blunt instrument unless it
takes account of liquidity and beta (price volatility). Indeed, marking to market
increases volatility because it encourages institutions to sell if assets change
in value.

<P> Kaufman warns that shorter investment horizons promote an "illusion of
liquidity" that prompts the taking of larger and riskier positions. Yet in a
financial crisis liquidity will dry up and hedging strategies will come apart.

<P> "This contraction of liquidity feeds back strongly onto related markets and
often onto unrelated markets, too," says Kaufman. "The inevitable results are
sharp price breaks and other manifestations of volatility."

<H3> <B>CHINA</B> </H3>

<H3> <B>Resurgent nationalism</B> </H3> 

<P> Over the centuries China has gone
through cycles of centralization and disintegration. Is there any reason to
believe the pattern of the past has been broken? The evidence suggests not.
Tensions in every sphere point to major dislocation &#173; probably break-up. In
the process, foreign investors' dreams of a market of 1.2 billion consumers will
be shattered.

<P> The trigger will be a weakened central government desperately trying to
regain control. The bid fails and civil strife follows. Provinces withhold taxes
and form regional coalitions; the army splinters; political chaos degenerates
into economic crisis.

<P> The intractable economic problem is that communism has collapsed as an
economic system yet remains the guiding political force. The government
desperately needs a philosophy to justify its hold on power.

<P> "Almost no influential figure in Chinese government or society believes in
communism any more, and that has created a vacuum that nationalism, always a
stronger element in the party's legitimacy, is filling," says Thomas Christensen,
assistant professor of government at Cornell University.

<P> But nationalism could become ultranationalism. Waging economic war on the US
would be just the beginning. If an attempt was made to rein in the provinces,
resistance would lead to chaos. Gangs and secret societies would expand their
influence as the agents of local leaders; mass migration would take off as
refugees and migrant workers rioted and fled; regional currencies would appear
and regional trade blocs would be formed; nuclear weapons would fall into the
hands of warlords.

<P>

<H3> <B>When conspiracy meets cock-up</B> </H3> <P> The intention of animal
rights group Save Animals From People (SAFP) had been to send a message of
disapproval to Alpine Bank Company&#173;Compagnie Alpine des Banques
(ABC&#173;CAB). The bank was well known for funding the testing of a new
contraceptive, Counterpartner, and using rabbits in its experiments.
Unfortunately for the bank, details of an early test in which several hundred
rabbits died were leaked to the press. A European newspaper reported that the
rabbits had suffered lingering, painful deaths because a night supervisor had
failed to comply with  procedures for relieving stricken animals by placing them
in an incinerator. ABC&#173;CAB had been criticized for its lack of knowledge of
day-to-day activities at the laboratory.

<P> SAFP, riding high after a successful direct-action campaign against
ill-treatment of water buffaloes in Asian rice cultivation, decided to make its
opposition to the Counterpartner project known to the bank. The agreed strategy
was to hack into ABC&#173;CAB's computer system and place a rabbit icon on all
the bank's PCs. When an operator clicked on the icon, comprehensive details of
the bank's involvement in Counterpartner would flash up, together with a lurid
description of a rabbit suffering.

<P> Assembling a team of expert hackers sympathetic to SAFP was easy, and soon
they were downloading the latest hacking software from the Internet and getting
down to work.

<P> The team was prepared for long nights of systematically searching for
telephone access to ABC&#173;CAB's system and cracking its security. But what
might have been a fruitless exercise lasting several weeks was never completed.
At the outset, a novice hacker dialled up ABC&#173;CAB's Web site and discovered
that the bank had left a standard trading programme running on it that led him on
to a server. This allowed the novice to breach the firewall between the Web site
and the bank's internal systems, and set off on his own hi-tech <BR> journey
around the bank.

<P> Eager to earn his stripes as a SAFP radical, the novice decided he would
wreak some destruction of his own before telling his comrades about his success.
He began searching for files named Counterpartner and came up with hundreds of
documents headed Counterparties, containing names and addresses, and endless
columns of figures and data. He couldn't understand them so he deleted the lot,
and those at the bank's bomb-proof back-up site.

<P> Wiping out records of a bank's swap book would normally have caused distress
but not catastrophe. But ABC&#173;CAB  &#173; a major player in the swaps market
&#173; was under severe financial pressure. It had been a heavy lender both to
the troubled media sector in the West and to Russia, and was carrying a high
proportion of non-performing loans. So when the bank announced that it was
temporarily halting trading to sort out internal problems, the market panicked.
Other banks pulled credit lines and depositors shifted their funds elsewhere.
ABC&#173;CAB collapsed &#173; as did several banks with large exposures to it.
SAFP admitted responsibility, pleading that it had not intended to bring about
the bank's collapse. There were no prosecutions, since the hacker's identity, and
the jurisdiction where the alleged crime had taken place were never established.
<B><I>&#173; BC</I></B>

<P>

<H3> <B>What else could go wrong?</B> </H3> <P> <B>Environmental fallout </B>The
financial effects of a second Chernobyl could be as damaging as the environmental
ones. In the global economy, nuclear contamination of large tracts of
agricultural land would bankrupt farmers, destroy businesses and ruin banks.

<P> <B>Index-led volatility </B>The widespread investment practice of tracking
market indexes &#173; even by non-index funds &#173; is giving huge powers to the
diminishing number of active portfolio managers. A group of them could ramp up a
market for short-term gains, then bring it down by selling out.

<P> <B>Leveraged folly</B> Leveraged buy-out (LBO) funds are awash with money
and, like banks with too much capital, it is difficult for them to resist using
it. LBOs are starting to get as busy in the service sector as in manufacturing.
But deals could easily come apart if equity prices were to fall and there was
insufficient cashflow to cover the debt.

<P> <B>Hi-tech rout</B> Hi-tech stocks are fashion victims. When in favour, their
prices rocket out of all proportion to earnings. Sometimes there are no earnings
as a product has yet to gain official approval. A high-profile collapse where
investors are backing, say, a new cure for cancer which ends up causing it, would
cause sector-wide problems.

<P> <B>Electronic money fraud</B> Electronic money is being hailed as the final
triumph of laissez-faire banking in which central banks and paper money
disappear. But a major fraud could set back the technology. If a criminal found a
way to insert false value into a smart card, he would substantially slow its
progress.

<P> <B>Capital glut</B> If $12 trillion in new savings is sloshing around the
world by 2002, the problem could be finding homes for it. If emerging markets
were to fail to liberalize their financial systems and make foreign portfolio
investors welcome, too much money would be set chasing too few assets. The result
would be overheating and inflation on a global scale.

<P> <B>Reaganomics resurgent</B> US economists of all political colours are
alarmed by a Bob Dole presidential campaign based on a 15% across-the-board tax
cut and only vague spending cuts. A repeat of the soaring budget deficits of the
1980s could do serious damage to the treasuries market and the dollar.

<P> <B>A Saudi boycott</B> Islamic fundamentalism in Saudi Arabia has grown
stronger since the Gulf War and the latest US missile attacks on Iraq could
increase its appeal. Control of Saudi Arabia by an anti-western government would
lead to use of the oil weapon, with predictable effects on oil
prices.

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-70</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B047-61</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.1a.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123331 text/html 13857
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:32:33 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 18:03:33 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 13617
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>

<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>

<H2> <B>What keeps them awake at night</B> </H2> 

<P>
<a href="em.96.09.1.html">Financial shocks: where next? </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1b.html"> The fear that dares to speak its name </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1c.html"> Risk management's final frontier </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1d.html"> Foreign passport, who needs one? </b></a>
<P>


<H4> <B>It's the job of senior
managers in banks to identify, worry about and make contingency plans for future
shocks. Brian Caplen asks two of them how they do it</B> </H4> <H2> 

<B>Fears of
the next Chernobyl</B> </H2> <P> <I>Derek Wanless, group chief executive of
Britain's NatWest Bank, is concerned about environmental risk </I>

<P> <B>What is the biggest risk for your bank?</B>

<P> Credit risk is still the most significant risk to NatWest, alongside systemic
risk. Credit risk is about looking after NatWest. Systemic risk is about the
ability to do business with all the major financial institutions in the world,
conscious that our exposures to some of these would massively outweigh our
exposure to any corporate. If one of the world's major banks went down, that
would have unpredictable, knock-on effects right through the system. If there was
any hint of systemic risk, you couldn't be sure how counterparties would be
affected.

<P> <B>Do you have a contingency plan for a failure of a major world bank?</B>

<P> We've been through a number of the "what ifs" and how we would cope. A lot
would depend on the actions of the regulators in the home jurisdiction. The
regulators have avoided systemic risk so far. But still we must consider the
worst outcomes. What if a major bank went down? What knock-on effects would that
have, first of all on the home country's  banking system, then on the world
system? Or if  one of the Japanese banks went down &#173; who knows in western
accounting terms what the balance sheets would have looked like.

<P> You quickly get into the debate about whether any banks are too big too fail.
What the regulators are attempting to do is get the structures in place to
contain systemic risks &#173; so that if a major bank went bust there are
watertight systems in place. But as bankers, the primary guard we have against
systemic risk is the strength of our counterparties.

<P> <B>Has your attitude to risk changed over the past few years?</B>

<P> There can't be a bank CEO who is not thinking more than ever about risk. Our
response to the problems of the late 1980s and early 1990s [arising out of the UK
recession] was to make a main board director, John Melbourn, responsible for
risk, especially credit risk because that's where the problems surfaced so badly.
This has been widened out to an overall risk function. We're not saying we
shouldn't take risks &#173; after all, we're in the risk business &#173; but we
want to measure and price risks as best as possible.

<P> We also do scenario planning as part of our annual strategic review. One of
the things that went wrong in banking in the late 1980s was having a one-scenario
view of the future &#173; especially with credit risk. I recently looked back at
our 1989 plan to see what happened. The UK part of the plan said that times were
going to get a bit harder, and growth was going to slow down to 2%, or even as
low as 1.5% at the outside. There was just that one picture. Lending money into
that picture wouldn't have been too difficult. Many of the policies we put in
place could have coped, but clearly they couldn't cope with what actually
happened.

<P> <B>What is your worst case outlook on the European Union?</B>

<P> The very worst would be a break-up of the single market. If the EU fragmented
over the single currency &#173; if some countries couldn't take their people
along and that put the single market in danger &#173; that would be a real step
backwards. Our customers would be damaged and so would we be. Or a squabble
between the ins [countries in the single currency] and the outs &#173; that would
be damaging, as would an overnight reform of the Common Agricultural Policy that
hurt farmers.

<P> <B>NatWest is known to be concerned about environmental risks. What are your
worst nightmares there?</B>

<P> There's a massive number of things that could happen, some of which have few
implications, some of which could be catastrophic for both the bank and the
world. The one-off disaster is extremely difficult to do anything about. With
long-running issues like climatic change, we <I>are</I> doing work on what the
impact will be on the agricultural sector.

<P> One of the potential big risks is massive environmental problems in eastern
Europe that spill over into western Europe. Given the lack of environmental
protection over the last 20 or 30 years of industrial growth, there is a risk of
some kind of Chernobyl-type accident. Something like that could affect both our
physical resources and our business.

<P> <B>What are the shortcomings of scenario planning and risk-modelling?</B>

<P> There is a spurious accuracy about a lot of the systems. Almost too much
comfort is being taken from information collection and risk-modelling. By
definition a big risk will be something unexpected. This isn't an excuse for not
thinking, but it is a reason for putting the output from models into perspective.
In any case, you can't run a business on the downside risk picture; it would mean
doing almost nothing.

<P> <B>How do you deal with the risks of fraud?</B>

<P> The thing that makes banks very nervous is the speed at which technology can
move money; the invisibility of so much of what we do to the naked eye. Most of
the underlying techniques of fraud have been there for a long time, but it's the
size and scale of what can be done in a new technological environment that causes
concern.

<P> Like most banks, we have a security section where we try to employ the best
people with knowledge of what has been tried and what can be tried. At some
stage, the money has to leave the banking system, or disappear in the banking
system. A lot of traditional  techniques, of knowing who your customers are and
what they are doing, remain the best defence against fraud.

<P> <B>What new issues are thrown up by electronic banking?</B>

<P> We invented  Mondex [a smart-card technology] so that we could be at the
forefront of this. Attempting to ensure new electronic systems are as rigorous as
possible in preventing fraud is what we are all about.

<P> One issue is how will it be regulated. Regulators have to decide how they are
going to cope with smart cards and payments through the Internet. If I plug in a
PC and start making payments in different parts of the world, who is the
regulator? The danger of regulatory arbitrage developing is quite serious. If you
look at the difficulties of getting Gatt or the WTO to agree about trade issues,
you realize the significant difficulties of getting banking regulators around the
world to come to a common agreement. The situation would be even more difficult
if non-banks were allowed into the system.

<H2> <B>Risk premiums must rise</B> </H2> <P> <I>Felix Fischer, chief financial
officer of Union Bank of Switzerland, on his bank's biggest risk concerns</I>

<P> <B>What are the most serious risks facing UBS?</B>

<P> In the short term, our biggest concern is domestic credit risk due to
structural change in Switzerland. We are mainly in the market for medium-sized
corporates &#173; which don't have credit ratings &#173; with a portfolio that is
impossible to change. The only way out is to raise the risk premiums. Current
credit prices are inadequate for the level of risk and we are trying to raise
them even if we do lose some business.

<P> In the longer term, measuring operational risks is where we will be making an
effort, mainly because it is most difficult to quantify. Fraud is an issue
against which we protect ourselves internally through a strict separation of
front-office and back-office duties, extensive product controls and internal
auditors. Externally, we have made sure that no access is possible into our
computer systems. Customers that communicate with us electronically have only
access to certain kinds of segregated data. We have been amazed by the
revelations in other banks of how many signs there were of fraud and how long it
took for the case even to be discussed. It's astonishing. We are determined to
see it doesn't happen here.

<P> <B>How do you deal with the risks arising from derivatives?</B>

<P> For derivatives we use analogue market and counterparty risk measurement
systems as for other trading or lending products. In addition, the valuation
model of every derivative product is checked twice, once on the front line, for
example in London, and then centrally in Zurich. We also defer a portion of our
earnings to take account of long-term derivative positions such as 10-year
options or swaps.

<P> <B>Is European monetary union a threat?</B>

<P> I am confident Emu is going to happen but really the worst thing for us is
the long-term appreciation of the Swiss franc that it could bring about. It's not
likely to appreciate by 5% or 10% overnight, which means it's not a market risk.
The risk would be on the credit side but it's impossible to judge how severe it
would be.

<P> <B>Why has the bank introduced a new risk-control  system? </B>

<P> We wanted to have a consistent overview of all risks. In the past, we have
had a clear separation between credit and market risk, but there are connections
between credit, market and operational risks. So mid-year, as part of a general
reorganization, we created a risk-management group with a day-to-day watching
brief on risk, together with a new executive group called the risk council which
meets once a month to review the situation. The president, the heads of credit
and market divisions, the head of the new risk-management unit, and myself all
sit on the council.

<P> <B>How does the new unit track risk?</B>

<P> We have mathematical models that we use on a continuous basis. In addition,
we take a major event, such as the 1987 stock market crash or the breakdown of
the European exchange rate mechanism, and run it through our models to determine
what the effects would be if it were to happen now. We want to test whether the
bank could withstand these types of crises.

<P> <B>But what about unforeseen events? </B>

<P> Well, there isn't much that could have a higher impact than a stock market
crash, unless it was total system failure. That is something different. You are
not then talking about one instrument becoming illiquid. You are dealing with
creditworthiness and counterparty risk that runs across the total banking
community. This would be a meltdown of the financial system that would be beyond
the control of any risk manager.

<P> <B>In the end, of how much use are models? </B>

<P> I take no absolute comfort from mathematical calculations, but this is the
best we can do in terms of modelling risk. Bankers must always be alert to
changes that fall outside their models.

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-71</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B047-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.1b.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123411 text/html 37115
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:33:03 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 18:03:23 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 36875
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>


<H2> <B>The fear that dares to speak its name</B> </H2> 

<P>
<a href="em.96.09.1.html">Financial shocks: where next? </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1a.html"> What keeps them awake at night </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1c.html"> Risk management's final frontier </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1d.html"> Foreign passport, who needs one? </b></a>
<P>




<H4> <B>Ask any central
banker what is his worst nightmare and he's likely to say one word: Herstatt.
Herstatt means gridlock in the world's financial system as hundreds of banks,
which yesterday trusted each other to make payments, no longer do. What can
shatter that trust? A technical snarl-up, a political shock, or worst of all, the
sudden failure of a major bank. By David Shirreff</B> </H4> 

<P> On October 7 in
Florence, the plumbers of the world's financial markets will attempt heroically
to put aside their differences and cooperate. In theory they are all trying to
avert the same disaster. In practice, for the last few years, they have been
pulling in different directions and pursuing at least five different solutions.

<P> The disaster is Herstatt risk, something the world has come close to only
once, in 1974, when Bankhaus Herstatt in Cologne was shut down by the German
banking supervisors. The closure, at 3.30pm German time, left all of Herstatt's
dollar foreign exchange transactions half completed in New York, where it was
still only 10.30am. The panic caused, even by that small number of failed
payments, resulted in dislocation and gridlock in the foreign exchange markets.

<P> Leading bankers and central bankers vowed it should never happen again. And
it hasn't. In 22 years, including the collapse of several banks &#173;
Continental Illinois, Drexel Burnham Lambert, Barings &#173; and disruptions such
as the 1990 invasion of Kuwait and the 1991 attempted Russian coup, there has
been no gridlock of Herstatt proportions.

<P> But the only thing preventing it has been fast-thinking central bankers. For
22 years very little has been done to the plumbing of financial markets to reduce
the risk of gridlock.

<P> Ask those leading bankers and central bankers what is their worst nightmare
and it is still the "gridlock caused by sudden failure of a major international
bank". But it is important not to forget other potential causes of gridlock
&#173; political chaos in a major country, the imposition of exchange controls on
a reserve currency, the default of a big exchange, or the collapse of even a
medium-size bank.

<P> Former New York Federal Reserve Bank chairman Gerald Corrigan says that for
years he was a "voice in the wilderness" on payments risk. "In the last four or
five years there's been much greater willingness to work for the common good," he
says. "Payment systems were taken for granted. Now the issue has come out of the
back-room into the board-room." In January, as chairman of the international
advisory committee at Goldman Sachs, he put together a symposium on the subject.
"This should be a concern not just of commercial banks," says Corrigan, "but also
of investment banks and the world's top 100 globally active industrial
companies."

<P> Because of the new risk management culture among banks, and because central
banks have decided they must retreat from being the markets' ultimate punchbag, a
crunch has come. In March, the G10 group of leading central banks in a report now
known as the "orange book" gave market practitioners two years to reach a
solution. Failure to do so, they implied, would lead central banks to impose a
solution themselves, in the form of penalties or a capital charge.

<P> So banks, some willing, some unwilling, are being forced to concentrate and
spend money on this risk, which some of them believe is so small it's hardly
worth thinking about. Even in the Herstatt case hardly anyone lost money.

<P> But recent studies suggest the risk is far greater than previously thought.
Foreign exchange market volume has grown to an estimated $1.4 trillion a day
&#173; that means $2.8 trillion in payments on both sides of the transaction.
Around 80% of that volume is concentrated between the 20-or-so major players.
Detailed surveys of the length of time at risk between payments of one leg and
receipt of the other leg of a transaction, often via correspondent banks, show
that the gap can be up to three days. During that time more than the entire
principal of one leg of a transaction can be at risk. Given today's technology
there appears to be no excuse for this sloppy risk management. The strongest
message from the G10 orange book is that banks can do a lot simply by tightening
up their own procedures for pursuing settlement and tracking their exposures.

<P> <B>Widening the net</B>

<P> To be fair, there have been several private-sector initiatives since the
mid-1980s to address Herstatt risk &#173; more precisely, foreign exchange
settlement risk. But they have been fragmented by politics and prejudice.
Citibank and a club of major international banks created FXNet in 1984. That nets
foreign exchange payments bilaterally between roughly 30 international banks in
16 currencies, reducing the physical payments and hence their mutual settlement
exposure. According to FXNet, daily transactions of around $170 billion are
netted down to flows of around half that number. That accounts for about 8% of
the world's daily foreign exchange volume.

<P> Swift (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Communication) created Swift
Accord in 1990, which logs members' foreign exchange transactions and allows them
to net bilaterally. A group of European banks last year went live with Echo
(Exchange Clearing House), a multilateral netting system, after two years of
trials followed by one awaiting approval. Multilateral netting reduces the
physical flows still further, since members transfer their deals to a single
counterparty, the Echo clearing house. A single daily payment in each currency,
covering all its transactions with other members, is all that is necessary
between each member and the clearing house.

<P> But Echo, which accepts deals through Swift Accord, cost &#163;50 million to
set up and is still losing money, say rivals who believe it has too few members
logging too few deals to achieve critical mass. Echo officials say it is a
capital-intensive business that will take time to see returns &#173; the system
continues to add members and volume. It is seeing flows of $6 billion gross a day
(which could represent as much as $18 billion in principal at risk, say Echo
officials) netted to around $2 billion.

<P> In North America there is a similar multilateral clearing house, Multinet
&#173; not yet in operation &#173; being established by six Canadian and two US
banks. Multinet is going through the same tortuous legal and regulatory process
that Echo endured, in order to clear deals in seven currencies in several
jurisdictions. Multinet has an agreement with FXNet which, according to FXNet
chairman Peter Bartko, could reduce FXNet's net daily flows of $85 billion to
just over $30 billion, and further to a mere $6 billion if instantaneous
payment-versus-payment is applied.

<P> Multilateral netting is a good interim solution, since it reduces the total
payment flows. Echo has added a payment-versus-payment feature, and Multinet
intends to do the same, to reduce the time-lag between payments as well as the
volume. But they are both clearing houses, which means they become the
counterparty to every deal done through them.

<P> Many of the biggest players dislike the idea of a clearing house because it
undermines their competitive advantage. A clearing house gives all members' deals
the same credit rating. It also stands in the way of inter-dealer relationships
and opportunities for horse-trading and re-negotiating forward deals during their
life. JP Morgan and Bankers Trust, among others, see that as an unnecessary
sacrifice.

<P> So Multinet and Echo have failed to attract the biggest banks, with a handful
of exceptions. Chase is a member of Multinet, for historical reasons &#173; the
banks merged with Chase, Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover, were not members.
ABN Amro, BNP and HSBC are among the bigger members of Echo. ABN Amro, Barclays,
HSBC and Lloyds Bank are members of Echo and FXNet (see diagram, page 70).

<P> There are technical differences between Echo and Multinet and differing
philosophies on risk management. But the biggest gulf between them is historical
and tribal. Each side recognizes that it makes little sense for two systems to
compete to become what is close to being a public utility &#173; they rob each
other of critical mass. For five years there have been attempts by big players to
bring Echo and Multinet together and perhaps to modify the clearing house
concept, but to no avail.

<P> The G10 central banks' committee on payments produced a series of papers
between 1989 and 1993, encouraging efforts to reduce Herstatt risk, deliberately
falling short of backing any one private-sector solution. Yet one report in 1990,
known after its chairman as the Lamfalussy report, has set minimum standards for
any netting system seeking approval from a central bank. The Lamfalussy minimum
standards demand, among other things, legal certainty in the relevant
jurisdictions, technical soundness, fair access, and in the case of multilateral
netting the ability to ride out the default of the one counterparty with the
biggest overall position.

<P> Most bankers accept the Lamfalussy standards, although there has been some
murmuring about supervisors wanting to go to "Lamfalussy plus" &#173; demanding
enough liquidity to cover default by the <I>two</I> biggest position-holders.

<P> In 1994 major New York banks, members of the New York Clearing Houses
Association (NYCH), formed a global payments committee to examine progress on
netting schemes so far, found it wanting, and tried to redirect efforts to<B>
t</B>he core of Herstatt risk: that is, to reduce to zero the time-gap between
one payment and its counterpart, by means of simultaneous release of funds,
so-called payment-versus-payment (PVP). Many domestic payment systems in national
currencies are already capable of supporting this. Real-time gross settlement
(RTGS) exists in most of the G10 currencies, but much work is needed to reconcile
national idiosyncracies, as Echo's experience with cross-border PVP bears out.
With payment systems extending their opening hours so that they overlap across
time-zones, payment-versus-payment across continents becomes more feasible. In
1997 the US Fedwire system plans to be open from half past midnight until 6.30pm.

<P> Major international banks seized on the NYCH initiative and formed a group of
17 members in June 1994, calling themselves the G20. In March this year the G20
went public, announcing that it was concentrating on a model for
payment-versus-payment through "continuous linked settlement". This would be
real-time settlement whereby matched deals between members that satisfy risk
management limits become irrevocable and are settled instantaneously through the
passing of entries on the books of a special purpose bank. The initial focus is
on G10 currencies (which account for the bulk of foreign exchange volume). But
the aim, according to programme director Rob Close of Barclays, is eventually to
handle "all the world's FX settlement". The criterion for admitting a currency
for settlement by the continuous linked settlement bank (CLSB) would be that it
has legal certainty based on a national real-time gross settlement system
providing payment from central bank accounts. And, to safeguard liquidity, banks
using the system would be of a minimum size and standing. The system would also
take netted payments from bilateral or multilateral netting systems, such as Echo
or Multinet, or netted flows from pairs of banks.

<P> But outsiders have tended to see this project as too much of an exclusive
club. By concentrating on payment-versus-payment and real-time gross settlement
the G20 project &#173; which has added three more members to make up the 20
&#173; seems to be trying to upstage the other efforts to reduce risk by netting.
Real-time gross settlement can accept netted payments, but it doesn't need them.
Certainly the promoters netting systems see the G20 as yet another competitor
threatening to rob their efforts of critical mass.

<P> In June a number of predominantly Echo banks &#173; European banks which tend
to be second-tier in the foreign exchange markets &#173; formed a lobby group in
protest at the G20, calling themselves the G40. The G40, thankfully, is not
offering yet another mechanical solution. It simply wants to keep itself informed
of what the G20 is doing, says spokesman Finn Otto Hansen, general manager at Den
Norske Bank. "We want to cooperate with them," he explains. "To start a new
system to cover all the risks you need more than 20 banks."

<P> The G20 says it welcomes another 40 banks concerned about Herstatt risk. But
it is keeping the details of its CLSB under wraps. "It's a very complex project,"
says Close. "We want to keep the industry informed, without having a wide debate
until technical matters are researched further." A G20 working group colleague
explains: "It's hard enough getting 20 people round a table to reach a decision."

<P> The G40 makes the point that, although its 48-or-so member banks account for
about 30% of FX trading volume, and the next 50 banks only around 15%, those 50
banks represent the highest risk of unexpected failure, and 15% is still $500
billion a day of exposure. "The risk you're taking on medium-size banks has
historically been the highest," says G40 spokesman Hansen.

<P> <B>Political games</B>

<P> In Florence on October 7, nearly 2,000 delegates at Sibos, the annual Swift
International Banking Operations Seminar, will have a chance to hear the latest
on the G20 project. Chairman of the G20 steering committee, Mark Urkowitz of
Chase, and Close of Barclays will outline progress so far on the continuous
linked settlement system and how it might affect the audience. Representatives of
G40, Echo, FXNet, Multinet will be there. If there is going to be a watershed,
marking a new era of cooperation on Herstatt risk, this should be it. But don't
hold your breath.

<P> The G20 itself is riven with politics, not only between banks and groups of
banks, but also within the banks themselves, between payments people, risk
managers, and FX dealers. Those close to the G20 admit that the initiative came
from payments people. The cynical view is that payments divisions favour gross
settlement because of the opportunity to squeeze revenue from each transaction.
FX people favour netting because it reduces the number of transactions, which to
them represents a cost. Risk managers protest that all bankers welcome risk
reduction as a common goal. G20 spokesman Close, who is payments strategy
director at Barclays, explains that payments revenue will drop significantly with
continuous linked settlement (CLS). "The transactions will be processed through
CLS by book transfer, which is far different from making a charge on a payment."
But if there's a loss, "the payments people's books would be hit". Reducing risk,
says Close, means reducing revenue "but that's a small price to pay".

<P> Others see the G20 as a political game being played across the Atlantic. Some
fear the aim is to create a cartel through which all FX payments must pass. A G20
source says pragmatically: "We'll try to make money, but not at the expense of
eliminating settlement risk." The G10's orange book makes it clear that central
banks will not favour a solution that seeks to maximize profit, or that ventures
into central bank territory. Ernie Patrikis, first vice president at the New York
Federal Reserve, cautions: "We don't want to see the CLS bank creating money or
making one-sided clear payments. That should be done by domestic payments
systems, which in the US means Fedwire and Chips [Clearing House Interbank
Payments System]."

<P> The most cynical see G20 as an exercise in prevarication &#173; kidding
central banks that something is being done while ensuring that none of the
netting schemes gains critical mass. "The last thing a triple-A bank wants is a
level playing-field," admits an FX manager at one top-rated bank.

<P> Bartko at FXNet is certainly frustrated by the lack of decision: "I wish
they'd pick one [solution] so I don't have to compete with things that don't
exist."

<P> A G20 member describes the exercise as "almost more a corporate finance
problem than an intellectual problem". But to avoid further dissipation of effort
the G20, FXNet, Multinet, Echo and G40 factions now have to talk to each other.
"It's a challenge to bring them together," says a G20 source, "with their
different shareholding structures". It will be difficult for the Sibos delegates
to strip away their tribalism and reach dispassionately for a common solution.

<P> The technical differences between Echo and Multinet, although small, embody
philosophical differences. Multinet is described by supporters as a "robust"
clearing house. Its medium-term debt has a triple-A rating from IBCA. It accepts
and nets deals only after they have been rigorously matched and tested for
counterparty limits. If deals are rejected, sometimes on a mere technicality
&#173; but payment-versus-payment deals are not rejected &#173; both sides,
including the innocent party, have to settle that day's deals bilaterally. Echo
is seen by supporters as more user-friendly, but its critics argue that it is
perhaps less robust. Echo initially accepts its members' deals. If there is a
technical problem, counterparties are given a deadline of around two hours to put
things straight. But if there is still a problem, for example if one bank has
exceeded its exposure limit &#173; which is a soft limit, not a deal-breaking
limit &#173; the offending counterparty has to trade down its position or put up
margin. However, the trade goes through and the innocent party is not affected.

<P> To achieve a merger of Multinet and Echo, one of these philosophies must be
modified. It seems that the big US banks favour Multinet's more rigorous, less
flexible risk-management approach. But Echo's advantage is that it is up and
running, and it works. It is also planning to introduce hard limits by around
April 1997, so that trades can be rejected for credit reasons. "We've taken on
board some of the criticism of the soft limits," says Peter Davey, deputy chief
executive at Echo.

<P> If the big banks have their way, a merged multilateral netting system would
also have to lose its clearing-house status. The big banks want their
counterparties to remain <I>their</I> counterparties. JP Morgan, which was
involved in early discussions with Multinet, pulled out when it foresaw that
forward foreign exchange contracts netted in the Multinet clearing house would
compete with its over-the-counter currency swap business.

<P> Evolving a common private sector solution to reduce Herstatt risk may just be
a risk manager's and central banker's dream.

<P> Bob Blower, assistant director at the British Bankers Association, is
sceptical whether there is enough incentive to see the project through. The FX
business is in decline, volatility has been low, costs are under pressure. This
is not a time for new spending with no palpable return. Blower believes a lot can
be done without seeking fancy solutions. FXNet has shown what risk reduction
simple bilateral netting can achieve. Bilateral netting agreements between banks,
such as Ifema (the International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement) and the
master agreement of Isda (the International Swaps &amp; Derivatives Association),
address replacement cost and close-out netting. They have reduced much of the
incentive to create a multilateral foreign exchange clearing house. Citibank,
originally one of the founders of Multinet, pulled out to focus on its own
bilateral netting agreements. "It would have been difficult getting people to
sign with us bilaterally if they knew we were going for a multilateral system
which would take multiple years," says Sy Rosen, vice president for payment
systems at Citibank. Citi is also heavily involved in FXNet as a founder member.

<P> For most banks, risk management means putting their <I>own</I> house in
order. The culture of risk awareness, driven by small shocks such as Barings,
Daiwa, Sumitomo, Procter &amp; Gamble, Metallgesellschaft, and led by central
banks and a handful of global players, means that banks are under pressure to
upgrade their systems and risk management just to compete. "We don't have to do
any benefit-selling any more," says Dajit Saund, of risk management software
vendor SunGard, "that's driven by regulators and crises. The second-tier and
lower banks are scrambling like mad."

<P> For purists, that is not enough. The banks at the forefront of the risk
management culture want to identify and quantify <I>all</I> the risks they face,
and apply a business cost.

<P> <B>Establishing a price</B>

<P> Herstatt risk, unfortunately, is not one of those Greek letters that appear
in value-at-risk calculations. Quantifying it requires something more than
projections of historical volatility. JP Morgan tried three years ago, presenting
the New York Clearing House with a paper equating Herstatt risk with a one-year
unsecured loan. Morgan's peer group were not impressed, complaining that a loan
is a different asset class. One bank applies a Herstatt model internally, which
has "opened a few eyes in the firm", says a risk manager. "We've run the model on
a shadow basis," he says, "but we intend to charge [internally]. In effect, the
FX business will pay." SBC Warburg has aggregated the time between irrevocable
commitment of funds release and settlement reconciliation, the amount, and the
probability of default (net of recovery), and allocated capital on a portfolio
basis to the foreign exchange business. That gives a figure for the consequences
of counterparty settlement failure, but it doesn't address the exposure to a
systemic event, when the foreign exchange market goes into gridlock. "We
<I>do</I> calculate concentration risk, by going through the same analysis,
excluding the probability of default," says Bill Mundt, managing director for
global settlement risk at SBC Warburg. "We also ask ourselves 'Would an expected
default on behalf of one of our counterparties impair our <I>own</I> ability?'
&#173; so that we're not the one to create the systemic risk."

<P> Because systemic gridlock is such a low probability event, and there is only
one historical case, a Black-Scholes model or other volatility calculation would
not throw up a useful number. Moreover, how do you factor in the likelihood that
a central bank will intervene and take the problem away? One risk manager says
his bank has introduced a "fudge factor" in its systemic risk analysis &#173;
"this is a guesstimate of the likelihood of getting some kind of relief", he
says.

<P> But the fudge factor may be diminishing. Central banks today are less
intervention-minded than they were. "Central banking is becoming collateralized,"
says Blower at the BBA. "Central banks are giving fewer and fewer free
overdrafts." It works both ways. The solution to the Barings crisis last year was
not a quiet takeover by British banks, assisted by cheap liquidity from the Bank
of England, as it might have been in earlier days. The market was told there is
no safety net.

<P> The main message of the G10 orange book was that the private sector must find
its own solution to Herstatt risk. The <I>dirigistes</I> are not so happy with
that conclusion. Researchers at the IMF have been working on a paper, to be
published in mid-September, suggesting that national payment systems are a public
good, and that the integration of real-time payment systems around the world
should also be treated as such. Most major national payment systems can settle
transactions on a real-time basis. This raises a question about the need for
parallel private-sector systems. "It's a controversial point whether
payment-versus-payment can work in the private sector, legally and practically,"
argues an IMF official. "Ultimately it's the central banks that provide the good
funds."

<P> Government-owned payment systems are beginning to make a charge for daylight
overdrafts, which implicitly is a charge for Herstatt exposure. US Fedwire
charges a flat fee. The Bank of England asks banks to collateralize daylight
borrowing with repos (deposits of government securities). The Swiss National Bank
charges an hourly overdraft fee.

<P> These daylight charges implicitly reflect the risk that a bank will fail to
repay or settle. But how should that risk be priced? The US Fedwire real-time
payment system charges 55 cents a transaction, while Chips (Clearing House
Interbank Payments System), which is private, charges 25 cents. Does that price
differential recognize that Fedwire is charging for Herstatt risk, while Chips is
getting a free ride, since the central bank implicitly stands behind it, were it
to fail?

<P> Should central banks set the price for being the ultimate insurers of
Herstatt risk? Unfortunately, that elegant solution is the very one they wish to
avoid. Even if they do stand between the world's financial system and perdition
they don't want anyone to count on it.

<P> Perhaps the private sector could establish a consensus price, as it has to
some extent with options valuation, even if the model makes some debatable
assumptions. Correspondent banks might be able to set charges that factor in
Herstatt risk by counterparty, with a further levy for systemic risk.

<P> The British Bankers Association (BBA) intends to run a round-table on this
topic in the autumn. "Correspondent banks could make a market in settlement
risk," says the BBA's Blower, "but this isn't like hurricane insurance, it's more
like terrorism insurance." Others have compared the risk to that of meltdown in a
nuclear power station. "The risk is so small, but potentially so devastating,"
says a central banker, "that you work to ensure it doesn't happen."

<P> "Intellectually, [establishing a price] is the right way," says Hansen at Den
Norske Bank, "but it would be complicated for the first bank to do it." Merrill
Lynch and Bankers Trust already monitor and rate their counterparties for payment
and settlement efficiency. But sanctions and charges against inefficient
counterparties are difficult to implement.

<P> On a counterparty-by-counterparty basis, Herstatt risk is a credit issue.
"Whether it manifests itself as liquidity risk, settlement risk or insolvency
risk is just a matter of timing," says Hansen. The credit risk can involve a bank
or group of banks, a country, or a clearing house or payment system. The ultimate
guarantor of a national payment system is the central bank. But does a
multilateral payment system also need an ultimate guarantor? If the G20
implements its continuous link settlement system, is its planned group of
private-sector liquidity providers enough of a defence?

<P> These almost philosophical questions have not yet been thoroughly explored.
Robert Heller, president of the International Payments Institute at Tiburon,
California, has suggested that the IMF could step in, in moments of crisis, as a
provider of settlement finality, using its stock of special drawing rights
(SDRs). "I don't think of this as replacing current settlement schemes at all,"
says Heller. "I'm thinking of it in times of severe financial crisis." Citibank
vice chairman Onno Ruding has supported Heller's suggestion. But IMF sources
believe the SDR is not widely enough used to take on this role. Moreover,
Heller's would be an unfashionable public-sector solution.

<P> As the G20's continuous linked settlement (CLS) system is more accurately
modelled, questions arise about the possible effect on domestic money markets,
and the conduct of monetary policy. It will be a multicurrency payment system
operating offshore, and outside national payment system hours. With extensive,
large-volume payment-versus-payment, there are likely to be peaks in liquidity
demand. Where will those be met: by central banks or by the CLS system's
liquidity providers? What happens if they can't meet the demand. Will national
central banks step in? Can central banks step in when their national payment
system isn't open? The US national payment system Fedwire is planning to open
from half-past midnight New York time, starting in 1997. That should mean a good
overlap with Japan's settlement system which closes at 1.00am New York time. But
this creates an anomaly for California: the next settlement day starts at 9.30pm
the previous evening.

<P> The CLS system has a provision that if liquidity is unavailable in one
currency, an equivalent amount can be delivered in another currency, provided the
counterparty has enough value in its collateral pool. Some experts regard this as
a potential problem &#173; "migration of liquidity problems from one currency to
another," says one. "A problem in dollars causes a problem in yen." But others
are relaxed: "Can an offshore system create money? No," says Eric Sepkes, vice
president of global transaction services at Citibank, London. "Money has already
been created by the FX trade itself. It's a debate that must be had: but I think
you'll find that all this results in payments in the national system."
Nevertheless, the CLS system is being designed to ensure that using one currency
to settle another only occurs intra-day, not overnight, to allay concerns by some
central banks.

<P> Such questions are getting close to the theory of finance: what is the nature
of a financial system and the ideal relationship between banks and central banks?
This is happening at a time when the European Monetary Institute (EMI) is
wrestling with the design of Target, a payment system for the euro. Yet, so far,
there has been little or no contact between the G20 and the EMI. "We're assuming
that if an industry utility works with European currencies it will work with Emu
[European monetary union] and Target," says David Roscoe, a managing director at
JP Morgan. A Bank of England source points out that even with a real-time euro
payments system "there won't be a single law, so you need to understand the
insolvency laws of any state where the CLS operates".

<P> A tenet of the G10's orange book, and of all attempts to mitigate Herstatt
risk, appears to be that the way today's FX markets work should not be affected.
But that is a rather pious hope. The innocent introduction of Swift 19 years ago
revolutionized foreign exchange markets by speeding transaction times and
increasing volumes in a way that was not foreseen.

<P> A multinational system of payment-versus-payment is likely to produce another
revolution. But it remains to be seen whether it will increase the velocity of
transactions and widen the number of counterparties, or whether the strain on
liquidity will slow velocity right down. Instinct suggests ways will be found to
produce the former result.

<P> <B>Essential reading</B>

<P> <I>Management of operational risk in foreign exchange</I>, the New York
Foreign Exchange Committee, April 1996

<P> <I>Settlement risk in foreign exchange transactions</I>, Committee on payment
and settlement systems of the central banks of the G10 countries (Allsop report
or "orange book"), BIS, March 1996

<P> <I>Papers from a symposium on risk reduction in payments, clearance and
settlement systems,</I> sponsored by Goldman Sachs, January 1996

<P> <I>Risk reduction and enhanced efficiency in large-value payment systems: a
private sector response</I>, New York Clearing House Association, January 1995

<P> <I>Reducing foreign exchange settlement risk</I>, New York Foreign Exchange
Committee, October 1994

<P> <I>Central bank payment and settlement services with respect to cross-border
and multi-currency transactions</I> (Noel report), BIS, September 1993

<P> <I>Report of the committee on interbank netting schemes</I> (Lamfalussy
report), BIS, November 1990

<P> <I>Report on netting schemes</I> (Angell report), BIS, February 1989

<H2> <B>Close shaves</B> </H2> <P> <B>Bankhaus Herstatt</B>, June 1974. The
closure of this German bank at 10.30am New York time resulted in a classic
chain-reaction of mistrust, as Herstatt's dollar FX payments failed to settle.

<P> <B>Continental Illinois</B>, 1982 to 1984. This could have been the big one,
but the realization of this big bank's insolvent position took two years. In the
words of Ernie Patrikis, first vice president of the New York Federal Reserve:
"If you're going to die, that's fine. But we want you to have a nice slow death."

<P> <B>Bank of New York</B>, November 1985. Computer failure at the bank
threatened to disrupt payments in the New York market. The New York Federal
Reserve stepped in with a $23 billion discount loan.

<P> <B>Drexel Burnham Lambert</B>, February 1990. Following Drexel's failing
access to liquidity because of market rumours, the Bank of England acted as
honest broker to settle payments between Drexel's London subsidiary and its
foreign exchange and gold trading counterparties.

<P> <B>Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce International</B>, July 1991. A UK and a
Japanese foreign exchange counterparty each lost the principal amount of deals
with BCCI having failed to settle before the bank went into liquidation.

<P> <B>Invasion of Kuwait,</B> August 1990. Fears about the survival of the
Kuwaiti banks and the dinar threatened gridlock, averted by the prompt action of
the Bank of England and other central banks.

<P> <B>Attempted coup in the Soviet Union</B>, August 1991. Correspondent banks
in deals with Soviet banks refused to release funds to settle contracts even
though countervalue amounts had been received. Some Soviet banks faced liquidity
problems, but gridlock did not spread.

<P> <B>Barings</B>, February 1995. Barings just after its collapse was unable to
cancel receipt of an Ecu amount, threatening to cause a knock-on effect
throughout the Ecu clearing. system.

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-72</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B047-149</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.1c.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123448 text/html 37432
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:33:51 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 18:02:19 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 37192
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>



<H2> <B>Risk management's final frontier</B> </H2> 

<P>
<a href="em.96.09.1.html">Financial shocks: where next? </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1b.html"> The fear that dares to speak its name </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1a.html"> What keeps them awake at night</b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1d.html"> Foreign passport, who needs one? </b></a>
<P>


<H4> <B>Banks measure credit
and market risk because they can, not because these are the biggest risks they
face. Operational risk is larger, more dangerous and no-one knows exactly what to
do about it. Mark Parsley looks at banks' first faltering steps in this area</B>
</H4> <P> What is the use of having state-of-the-art market-risk measurement
tools if one rogue trader can bankrupt your institution in a matter of weeks? Why
bother with the complexities of modelling credit and counterparty risk if a fund
manager at one of your foreign subsidiaries can cost you &#163;200 million in
cash, and untold millions in tarnished reputation and credit standing?

<P> While the leading financial institutions can claim to have half-way
scientific ways of measuring, monitoring and providing for credit and market
risks, most would agree that they struggle even to define potentially the largest
and most pernicious class of risks they face &#173; operational risks. At the
cutting edge, however, banks are now developing methodologies to complete the
risk-management triangle. Their ultimate aim is a capital allocation system that
takes all risks into account.

<P> The pat definition of operational risk is simply any risk of earnings
volatility that is not market or credit related. In this sense it is the set of
risks banks share with most other publicly-owned commercial organizations:
product liability risk, the risk of fire and explosion, business interruption
risk of any kind, image impairment risk, directors' liability, technology risk
and so on. Traditionally, these risks fall into two classes &#173; insurable and
uninsurable. In general companies have simply paid the premium for things like
business interruption and directors' liability, and tried to create internal
controls and contingency plans to cope with risks the insurance industry would
not touch.

<P> More recently, industrial companies have been forced to look again at
operational risk. First, there seems to be more of it. Legislation has become
more onerous, government and supranational bodies such as the EU have become more
demanding and customers generally more litigious. Second, changes in the cost and
availability of insurance cover have highlighted the inadequacy of traditional
insurance. Years of large claims have pushed premiums up; open-ended cover is
difficult to find; exclusion clauses have become more widespread reducing the
protection available; insurance pay-outs are typically slow, often involve
litigation and do not cover the full cost of lost business; and insurance
companies are beginning to insist on insurance audits. So companies have had to
find other ways to eliminate risks or ways to evaluate them accurately in order
to be able to self-insure. In one of the more public examples of this trend, UK
oil giant BP decided that the cost of insuring itself against large catastrophes
was more than its expected level of loss. It now insures against smaller more
probable risks and self-insures the rest.

<P> But why should banks be interested in the problems their commercial relatives
face? The most obvious reason is that the operational risks both sectors share
are huge. Operational risks, not the market risk that was superficially
responsible, were at the root of the business losses of Barings, Bankers Trust
and Daiwa Bank. And even businesses that take neither market nor credit risk
&#173; such as asset management &#173; carry huge potential operational risks, as
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell has discovered recently. The best way to assess these
risks &#173; to separate them from credit and market risk &#173; is to look at
companies who don't take any of the latter and so whose earnings volatility must
be derived solely from operational and business risks.

<P> Also, trends in the non-financial world have been mirrored in banking. Banks'
customers have become more litigious, particularly in the derivatives and mutual
fund sectors. Financial institutions are now heavily reliant on their technology
and face huge consequential liabilities in the event of systems failure. The
business of a large cross-border financial institution has become more complex
and therefore more vulnerable. And the global payments systems that link these
institutions could bring the entire financial system to a halt if even part of
them failed. None of these risks is easily evaluated or cost-effectively insured
and most aren't covered by the kinds of policies banks usually have: business
interruption insurance (which covers physical causes such as storms); a bankers'
blanket bond (which covers fraud and negligence); directors' and officers'
liability; and so on.

<P> Banks have also found that by themselves credit and market risk don't explain
all the earnings volatility they experience and against which they want to
allocate capital. Value-at-risk (VAR) and credit risk models tend to look only at
principal risks. They do not cover the fee and commission income that is so
important to banks these days. The earnings volatility risk attributable to, say,
M&amp;A advisory work is not a straightforward function of some observable market
price. It is linked more closely to people and reputation &#173; which are
operational variables. An increasing proportion of this kind of income is earned
from so-called structured or tailored products: the complexity and lack of
standardization that add value also carry higher operational risk &#173; legal,
technological and in the back office. Only by understanding these risks, and
perhaps allocating capital against them, can banks get a true picture of the
value of these revenue streams. As one consultant asks pointedly: "Is it any
accident that banks are now looking for growth in areas where they do not
directly allocate capital and where risk is difficult to manage, rather than in
basic trading and lending where businesses now have to pay their own way?"

<P> It's also in banks' direct financial interest to get to grips with
operational risk. The gap between most banks' total capital, and what their
models say is required to cover market and credit risk, is very large. Any way of
measuring how much of that cushion they need against the remaining risks &#173;
operational risks &#173; offers the hope of discovering an excess. That excess
can either be invested profitably in taking more credit or market risk, or be
given back to grateful shareholders.

<P> Measuring operational risk may even provide banks with a way to price a new
and lucrative source of business. Bankers Trust and its subsidiary the WM Company
have already taken over a number of technology-intensive back-office functions
for large institutional investors such as Scottish Widows. The bank has also
become back office to Abbey National's derivatives operations. Lee Barba, a
Bankers Trust managing director in New York, predicts that outsourcing will
become one of Banker Trust's largest businesses within the next five years.

<P> Pricing the contracts that underlie these outsourcing ventures depends on
being able to specify exactly the services offered and the responsibilities
undertaken by each party. Among the many negotiating points: what error rates are
acceptable in processing trades or in a global custody outsourcing? And who is
responsible for losses incurred by errors? To price the contract the bank
offering the outsourcing service must be able to monitor and measure these types
of operational risk.

<P> There are two main classes of operational risk &#173; confusingly categorized
as operations risk and business event risk. Consultants Coopers &amp; Lybrand
have produced a useful checklist (see chart, page 76).

<P> Operations risk covers three main areas: transaction risk (processing and
settlement risk of various kinds &#173; the narrowest version of operational
risk), operational control risk (the risk that individuals will break internal or
external guidelines and cause losses) and technology systems risk (covering
implementation errors, information input/output errors and system failures).
These risks are, in general, easier to model and evaluate than business event
risk.

<P> Business event risk covers the much broader risks faced by most businesses in
their day-to-day operations. These are legal risks, reputation risks, taxation
risks, regulation risks and disaster risks. Some of these risks can be both
internal and external. In the past they have been mitigated not by capital
allocation but by strategic solutions such as better planning, investment in
staff and customer care, and so on. These definitions are not fixed: every bank
puts different risks into these two broad classes.

<P> At Barclays, operational risk is defined as fraud, failures in controls and
the like, while business risk is any other change in revenue that is not matched
by a change in costs and thus creates earnings volatility or margin changes.
Around 70% of the bank's earnings volatility is due to provisions; the remaining
30% is put down to business and operational risk.

<P> The bank considers operational risk smaller than business risk because it is
made up of a large number of very specific risks that (it believes) are not
correlated and so tend to cancel each other out. Barclays allocates capital
against both business and operational risks. However, quantifying large one-off
operational risks is very difficult, which makes them poor candidates for capital
allocation. Instead, Barclays believes they are best controlled by better
management-and-control infrastructure or by insurance.

<P> Philip Severs, deputy group operational risk director at Barclays, believes
these narrowly-defined operational risks have increased, as banks' businesses and
organization have changed, although they are not as significant as business
risks. "The back office used to be a large number of small units. These functions
are now often concentrated in a single processing centre. The impact of a
particular event is therefore likely to be greater than before."

<P> Bankers Trust prefers to focus on the major causes of business and
operational risks, grouping them under five categories: customer relationships,
human resources, technology, the physical environment and assets for which the
bank is responsible, and lastly a catch-all, "other external", which includes
regulatory risk, fraud and so on. Doug Hoffman, managing director at Bankers
Trust, explains: "The main theme [in deriving operational risk categories] is
that they are resource based and, like any company operating in a service sector,
our major resource is our customer relationships, our people, our
systems...having derived these risks from the resource classes, we looked at the
functional areas [within the bank] that could be assigned responsibility for
them".

<P> So, risks related to personnel start in the human resources department. Risks
that spring from problems in customer relationships can be laid at the door of
relationship managers, technology risks with the head of information technology
and so on.

<P> <B>Processing risks</B>

<P> In this arcane area, which some banks won't venture to quantify, transactions
risk is a good starting point. Transaction errors tend to be reasonably frequent,
they generate clear cut but small losses and they are recorded. This means that a
statistically significant history of losses is sometimes available from which to
make valid assumptions about the future. Each process can be broken down into a
series of steps. At each step the error history can be used to generate a
probability that a particular mistake will be made and the loss history can be
used to generate an expected loss for each outcome; and finally a probability
tree for the entire process can be constructed to produce a maximum expected loss
for that process. Aggregate every process in a department, such as settlements,
into a model like this and from the resulting probability tree an overall
expected loss can be derived.

<P> Unfortunately, even in back-office environments, loss histories and error
databases are usually insufficient by themselves. Instead, methods from a
half-forgotten science of the 1970s &#173; known as operational research &#173;
are being resurrected. This is a high-tech version of the time-and-motion study
and is more commonly used in industries where the processes being analyzed are
purely physical. For example, aviation authorities model the likelihood of
failure in any part of an aircraft engine and use the results to draw up
regulations that govern how far from an emergency landing site single and
twin-engined aircraft may fly. Using tested mean times between failures (MTBF)
for each component and testing the effects on an engine of each failure is
relatively straightforward for a purely physical process such as an aero engine.
Barclays, in its operational risk management analysis, uses a system derived from
the aviation model to aggregate mean times between human errors.

<P> Nigel Webb, director of financial systems consulting at Andersen Consulting,
has first hand experience of operational risk. He has worked for Drexel Burnham
Lambert and Bankers Trust. He explains operational research as follows: "The aim
is to approximate the risk characteristics of a particular event. It is not a
statistical approach, it is an estimate of the time to failure of a process and
then an estimate of how big the resulting loss is, based on how much cash is
flowing through the system." The result is not based on statistically valid data
sets; it is simply a consistent estimation technique.

<P> But there are problems extending the technique to human processing systems
even as narrowly defined as settlements. And even where process evaluation is
possible, a number of banks have come to the conclusion that while operations
risk may be measurable in areas like settlements, it costs too much to quantify
and is not worth eradicating completely anyway.

<P> <B>Trade off</B>

<P> Sharon Larmour, managing director operations at CSFP in London, explains the
dilemma: "You have to be careful in settlements that you make the right trade-off
between the costs and disadvantages of putting in controls to take care of every
eventuality, and the necessity of actually processing the trades you have to.
This depends on the type of market you are in. In plain vanilla bond markets
where you are working on a delivery-versus-payment basis you have to process a
large number of almost identical trades. The main errors will incur the risk that
you have to pay a day's interest, so it is an overnight funding risk. In OTC
markets like derivatives or, say, in emerging markets debt where the trades are
more individual, that overnight risk can become market risk or even the risk of
losing the full principal amount. So you need preventative controls in OTC
markets and, in more vanilla markets, you need detective controls which pick up
errors accurately. But where the cost of preventing the error may be greater than
the cost of allowing a certain level of that error to happen, you also have to
ask: is it worth doing all the analysis required to quantify the risks or is it
better to spend that money on having people understand the risks?"

<P> Her boss, managing director and chief financial officer Chris Martin, is
quick to point out that this is not an argument for sloppy settlements.
Transaction processing is an area that needs constant monitoring and detective
controls are only useful if your systems are already top-notch. CSFP has a lower
regulatory capital level imposed on it by the Bank of England than some others,
precisely because of the level of control it demonstrates in operational areas.
"Acceptable error rates are judged in the light of your track record," says
Larmour. "If you constantly make a particular kind or level of errors, then you
correct."<B> </B>

<P> She is sceptical of any claims to be able to measure even simple operations
risk consistently. "The problem is the number of assumptions you have to make
about even very concrete variables," she says. "For example we model capacity for
planning purposes. But what if volumes suddenly treble? What if the product mix
changes dramatically? And what about the fact that procedures constantly evolve?
And what about the correlations between errors in one process with those in
another? The maintenance for any model of the probability trees for expected
losses of settlement processes would be incredible."

<P> Despite this scepticism, settlements chiefs will increasingly have to be able
to measure the residual risks they claim to be happy with, in order to quantify
the costs of the error rates they believe acceptable and to measure how much more
departments should be charged for complex one-off transactions than for plain
vanilla. In transaction processing, operational risk management is definitely
coming.

<P> <B>Non-processing risks</B>

<P> Banks that have struggled with the assessment of large, specific operational
risks find their biggest problem is lack of data. "Fortunately we don't have
enough experience of such losses," jokes Lawrence Dickinson, deputy corporate
planning director, at UK clearer Barclays. So researchers have tended to try to
plug the data gap by looking outside their own industry. At Bank of America, the
Risk &amp; Capital Allocation Analysis Group has spent the last five years
developing the bank's economic capital models. Recently, the group has turned its
attention to what it calls business risk, defined by director of risk analysis Ed
Zaik as "a non-portfolio risk, the kind of risk you'd find in any type of
business". Zaik started off by looking at businesses outside the bank and on a
sectoral basis looked at the capital structures employed in each business type.
"We looked at publicly-traded companies, gauged how closely they were related to
our business or a part of our business, and then analyzed how they were
capitalized."

<P> How well did it work? "Not that good," says Zaik. "It was difficult to find
peer play situations." For example, the bank looked at a number of retail
businesses including fast food chains to find a match for its retail banking. In
practice it proved difficult to get unit heads to agree with comparisons that
likened their businesses to burger bars.

<P> The next step was to focus instead on a set of eight or so key ratios (such
as operating expenses to total expenses) as a way of comparing businesses and as
a way of comparing individual business units with the whole bank. Business group
heads were also asked to fill in surveys on the riskiness of their businesses.
"The problem was that, with no benchmarks, everyone put down that they were a
medium risk," says Zaik. Finally the bank came up with the methodology it uses
today. "We look at the level of fixed costs and non-interest expenses, and set
aside a percentage of that against operational risk," explains Zaik. "We take 25%
of fixed costs and 50% of non-interest expenses, and multiply by a correlation
factor that takes into account that risks [operational, market, credit] are
connected. And we are doing work to refine the correlation analysis."

<P> <B>Selling job</B>

<P> This seemingly simplistic approach makes sense if you assume that historical
levels of these costs incorporate any payouts for operational losses. In this way
they are a reasonable proxy for future levels of operational risk capital
requirements. It is also an easy sell to business heads. "Remember we have to
sell this at the top level and then have business unit managers push these
methods down," says Zaik. "Qualifying operational risk in individual units &#173;
in the number of geographies and markets we operate in &#173; would be
impossible. So we try to start off at the macro level, and help senior managers
identify and measure risk that way."

<P> Like Bank of America, Barclays decided that the best way to augment meagre
internal databases was to look at non-financial companies as their earnings
volatility is entirely due to business and operational risks. "We analyze our
businesses, breaking them down into a set of activities. We then benchmark those
activities against the relevant activities in the non-financial sector," explains
Dickinson of Barclays. On this basis a capital allocation is made, expressed as a
percentage of costs. Typically the allocation runs at between three and six
months' costs.

<P> These rudimentary methodologies are just a first step. They are based on
historical proxies for operational risk rather than on any real operational risk
data. They tend not to monitor operational risk actively and do not work well in
fast-changing environments. And they cannot yet cope with the obvious
correlations between operational risks: for example, that settlement failure can
cause legal or reputational risk.

<P> The other way to measure operational risk is to borrow from those who are
expert at riding out rare but devastating losses: insurance companies.

<P> Insurance is superficially similar to market and credit risk capital
allocation in that it seeks to set aside cash against expected losses and to
quantify those expected losses by statistical analysis. However, market risk
deals with marketable positions whose values can constantly be ascertained and
whose future values can be predicted as a function of volatilities.

<P> Credit risk deals with losses from contracts and securities that can be
valued either directly or by an accurate proxy, for which there is a large amount
of public and internal data, and which are themselves correlated with each other
and with economic conditions.

<P> Insurance is concerned with events that are extremely rare, impossible to
predict and that often have no bearing on each other. While value-at-risk and
credit risk models tie themselves up in ever more complex statistical analysis
based on volatility and correlation, insurance remains reliant upon the most
basic assumptions of probability theory: lump together enough similar but
unconnected events and you will begin to get a half-way decent sample. Derive a
best guess margin of error around the mean. Then use that historical data and
best guess to determine an expected level of losses. Finally set a premium that
will cover all the losses plus your expenses and leave you with a profit.

<P> However hit and miss that sounds &#173; the myth of actuarial precision
&#173; it is essentially how any bank wishing to tackle operational risk
management will have to proceed for the very low probability risks. The first
thing they will need is a loss database bigger than one they can develop from
internal records.

<P> Bankers Trust (BT) appears to be the only bank that has grasped this nettle
by investing heavily in an external database of operational loss events. "No firm
has enough operational loss experience to be statistically relevant," says
Hoffman. "So our database is far broader than Bankers Trust. It looks at all
types of banks and corporations. And since we're interested in losses that are
neither credit- nor market-related, most of the database is non-BT." Although the
bank has been building the database actively for only two years it contains
around 10 years of loss experience, mostly clustered in the last five years.

<P> As loss events are captured they are examined for relevance. How much like BT
is the corporation involved? How are the circumstances of the loss relevant to
the businesses BT is in? Once these questions have been answered &#173; somewhat
subjectively &#173; a weighting is given to each loss in the database.

<P> The database gives BT the same starting point as an insurance company. Says
Hoffman: "The huge investment that we have made in the database gives us
statistical reliability to look at operational risk to the same 99% confidence
level we use in the rest of our Raroc [risk-adjusted return on capital] model
[99.73% of the values in a normal distribution fall within three standard
deviations of the mean] although the tail [area of very high loss and low
probability] is not as well populated as we would like." Unsurprisingly the
potential losses shown up by BT's analysis are "large".

<P> At present, the majority of the loss events recorded on the database are
legal settlements, as these are the most public and transparent symptoms of
operational risk. This skews the database towards risks related to problems in
customer relationships that result in product liability suits, legal and medical
malpractice suits and the like. Because of this, BT is having to reclassify its
risk classes, being concerned that losses previously viewed as causal are in fact
symptomatic. The broad definition "customer relationship", with the consequent
finger of blame pointed at relationship managers, is too vague.

<P> There are also notable holes in the data. Technology risk is one of the
largest operational risks a bank faces, yet companies' reluctance to disclose
anything about technology failures and losses creates an almost total blackout in
this area.

<P> Having arrived at their quantification of business and operational risk,
banks must then decide what to do about it: tighten operational controls to
minimize risk, buy insurance against it or allocate capital to it.

<P> At Barclays, capital is allocated against business risks, which are
continuous, but not one-off operational risks. "Operational risks are large and
one-off. That does not make them very good candidates for capital allocation.
Instead we focus on understanding and then measuring these risks," says Severs.
"We then try to ensure a consistent and rigorous risk assessment process is
applied worldwide and that appropriate management controls are in place."

<P> BT allocates operational risk capital to all types of business and
operational risk, though it is in the process of reclassifying these risks
because of the problems of separating cause and effect. The number is broken down
into three components: a core operational risk number; a surcharge based on an
evaluation of controls within a business &#173; poor controls means a higher
surcharge; and an insurance-related discount.

<P> The core operational number is derived from analysis of the exposure of a
business to the database's broad classes of risk &#173; technology, people,
physical assets, relationships and to factors that intensify or mitigate these
risks. So, for example, a department would be judged for its reliance on
technology by comparing it with similar businesses in the loss database. The loss
experience from the database as well as the department's own history of
technology-related losses is then used to derive aggregate loss expectancies. To
this would be added scores dependent on the department's perceived inherent
riskiness, based on a proprietary business vulnerability index. This includes
factors such as product complexity, where a business is in its life cycle (mature
or new), the level of automation in a business, market share, documentation
volumes, and the level of regulation and litigation associated with that business
line.

<P> The control surcharge penalizes businesses for poor internal audit ratings or
for having been singled out for control problems by the firm's auditors. The
insurance-related discount is a deduction that takes into account the banks'
existing insurance policies.

<P> While some bankers judge the exercise to be worthless, because it is so
riddled with assumptions, Bankers Trust takes it very seriously. Capital is
allocated on this basis and incentive schemes incorporate these capital
allocations. Says Hoffman: "This system allows us to develop a capital
attribution framework to quantify the operational and event risks of the firm; to
create a risk management tool &#173; an incentive for business lines to implement
where appropriate tighter controls and reduce the risk of operational losses; to
identify the operational/event risk dangers of a strategy and suggest
invest/disinvest/divest decisions."

<P> <B>Insurance instead</B>

<P> Operational risk management seems so like insurance to some banks that they
look for insurance cover instead of developing their own capital allocation
systems. In the breathing space afforded by the insurance they can then decide
whether to spend the money and time quantifying their risks more exactly or
whether to keep paying the premium. A number of insurance companies are
reportedly offering policies, though none was willing to discuss them. They are
thought to be preoccupied with settlements and payments risks. Says one insurance
broker: "Insurance against external payments failures has sort of existed for
some time. Organizations such as Swift (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Communication) can insure themselves against liabilities arising from these
failures and so can banks."

<P> Banks cannot know how much to pay for these policies unless the risks have
been evaluated. If they have, then unless insurance is significantly cheaper than
an internal capital charge, why buy a policy? In theory banks should favour
self-insurance over any off-the-shelf policy. Capital allocations based on a
bank's own internal loss histories and position data should be more accurate than
the more general picture used by insurance actuaries to calculate premiums.

<P> Barclays is exploring the use of insurance. Says Dickinson: "If you don't
wish to hold a large specific risk you may be able to take out insurance. This
involves a cost but shares the risk with someone else. You also transfer the
problem of calculating that risk correctly. The choice between insurance and
capital involves a trade-off between the cost of the insurance and the cost of
holding capital against that risk. Banks cannot yet insure against business risk
but they can against some forms of operational risk."

<P> Those working on capital allocations insist that insurance is a financing
tool not a risk management tool. Says one consultant: "A business-by-business
capital allocation system encourages line managers to think about risk and to
reduce it where appropriate. Paying a flat premium and charging it as an overhead
does not, because it breaks the link between that business group's behaviour and
the costs of that behaviour."

<P> This is a science in its earliest days. The insurance/self-insurance
trade-off has not been worked out; the huge holes in available databases have not
been plugged; no standard definitions or methodologies exist. So it's no surprise
that no-one is yet tackling problems such as the correlation between market risk
and operational risk, the link between increased operational risk and increased
credit risk, and the multiple correlations between the operational risks
themselves.

<P> Some bankers may prefer not to play the numbers game to this extent because,
they say, it chases symptoms not causes. In their view, legal risk is a symptom
of some deeper failing &#173; such as a deceitful product salesperson &#173; not
a cause. The risk of losing an entire trading team, in their book, is linked to
staff turnover, which itself is related to levels of pay, training, management
failings, culture and workload. But risk managers, now a powerful voice within
firms, are constantly pressing for these questions to be weighed and quantified.
Businesses that don't take credit and market risk must have capital allocated to
them, and the earnings volatility risk that remains when credit and market risk
have been stripped out is too large to ignore.

<P> With regulators and rating agencies placing increasing importance on firmwide
risk management and capital allocation, and with the issues raised by Barings,
Daiwa and now DMG, the quest to quantify risk ever more finely will
continue.&#009;*

<TABLE BORDER=1 CELLPADDING=1 CELLSPACING=1> <TR><TD COLSPAN=2><B>Operational
risk according to Garp</B></TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD>Operational risk</TD>
<TD>Transaction risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>Execution error</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Product
complexity</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Booking error</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Settlement error</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD>Commodity delivery risk</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>Documentation/contract risk</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Operational
control risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Exceeding
limits</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Rogue trading</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Fraud</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Money
laundering</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Security risk</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Key personnel risk</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD>Processing risk</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Systems risk</TD>
<TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Programming error</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Model/methodology error</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD>
<TD></TD> <TD>Mark-to-market error</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>Management information</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>IT systems
failure</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Telecommunications failure</TD>
</TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Contingency planning</TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD>Business/event risk</TD> <TD></TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD>
<TD>Currency convertibility risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Shift
in credit rating</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Reputation risk</TD>
<TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Taxation risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P>
<TR><TD></TD> <TD>Legal risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Disaster
risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Natural disasters</TD>
</TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>War</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD>
<TD>Collapse/suspension of markets</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD>Regulatory
risk</TD> <TD></TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Breaching capital
requirements</TD> </TR><P> <TR><TD></TD> <TD></TD> <TD>Regulatory changes</TD>
</TR><P> <TR><TD COLSPAN=2>Source: Generally accepted risk principles, Cooper's
&amp; Lybrand</TD> </TR><P> </TABLE> 

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-73</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000314-B047-193</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.1d.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123528 text/html 51968
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:34:18 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 18:01:30 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 51728
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>



<H2> <B>Foreign passport, who needs one?</B> </H2> 

<P>
<a href="em.96.09.1.html">Financial shocks: where next? </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1b.html"> The fear that dares to speak its name </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1c.html"> Risk management's final frontier </b></a>
<P>

<a href="em.96.09.1a.html">What keeps them awake at night </b></a>
<P>


<H4> <B>Next year's IMF/World
Bank meeting will be held in Hong Kong, by then three months into Chinese
communist rule. What will delegates find: a thriving boom town or a ghost of its
former self? Confused local opinion suggests things could go either way. To get a
view from the top, Steven Irvine<I> </I>sounded out more than 30 of Hong Kong's
tycoons, politicians and bankers, and drew some far-reaching conclusions</B>
</H4> 

<P> By July 1 next year Hong Kongers who have the means will have bought
insurance policies called foreign passports. A government source reckons close to
a million already have them and could leave tomorrow. Over the coming months
there will be no shortage. The prime minister of Tonga in the South Pacific wants
to sell 7,000 passports at around US$20,000 apiece before the transfer of
sovereignty. He is even sending over his police force to organize the sales.

<P> Under the joint declaration signed by the UK and China in 1984, Hong Kong
will become an "inalienable" part of China on July 1. However, under Deng
Xiaoping's one-country, two-systems model, it will be governed autonomously under
a capitalist system with supposedly minimal interference from Beijing. This has
produced an atmosphere of hope mixed with trepidation. Henry Tang, the outwardly
positive chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industry (his own company,
Peninsula Knitters, employs 12,000), frankly admits: "One country, two systems
looks great on paper. I've never seen it done anywhere else in the world."

<P> Will Hong Kongers need those passports? There are two versions of the future
that visitors to Hong Kong hear or read about: the optimistic and the
pessimistic. First the bad news.

<P> It is June 4 1998. Every year since 1989 a vigil has been held for the
victims of the Tiananmen Square massacre. Between 2,000 and 10,000 people have
turned out each year to demonstrate and hold placards hostile to the rulers in
Beijing, an exercise of the right of free expression. On this occasion, however,
it's treason. The world's televisions show pictures of arrests, with protesters
being frogmarched out of Victoria Park.

<P> Far-fetched? Perhaps. But the leadership in Beijing has hinted that such
demonstrations will not be tolerated. China's unofficial embassy in Hong Kong has
traditionally been the Xinhua News Agency. Its deputy director, Zhang Junsheng,
this year made a specific reference to the Tiananmen anniversary: "It's up to the
laws passed by the post-1997 government to determine if these events continue.
But I tell you one thing: this certainly is not a patriotic activity. It also
disturbs public order."

<P> The muzzling of the press is perhaps the pessimists' most realistic fear, and
if it occurs it will certainly change the atmosphere in Hong Kong. China's
information minister, Zeng Jianhui, commented in July: "Hong Kong's press can do
what it does now, namely report what other people say. But if the press says we
should do something [deemed harmful to China], that's different. No country would
allow that." He also suggested that local writers should look to the mainland
press for guidance on how to cover sensitive issues such as Taiwan.

<P> <B>Press under pressure</B>

<P> Hong Kong has two major English-language papers and 12 Chinese ones. The
standard of journalism is high and often independent in tone. Journalists who
fear for the future often refer to the case of Xi Yang, a journalist in China who
was given a 12-year jail sentence for disclosing the alleged financial secrets
that the central bank planned to sell off part of its gold reserves and that
interest rates would not rise for a third time that year. He was kept in custody
for seven months, his trial held in secret and his informant jailed for 15 years.

<P> Mak Yin Ting, chairman of the Hong Kong Journalists Association, is mindful
of the incident: "I don't think reporters should have to think: 'Is this
confidential information that I cannot report?'" She adds: "I don't think
reporters will give up without a fight. But some journalists think they will stay
in their job until 1997. They have a wait-and-see attitude."

<P> But the pre-eminent fear of the business community is less the move towards a
self-censoring press than the growth in corruption &#173; although the two will
tend to go hand in hand. In last year's <I>New York Times</I> corruption index,
China was found to be the second most corrupt country in the world after
Indonesia. In contrast, Hong Kong's staggering growth has been aided by its lack
of corruption &#173; the index found it less corrupt than Japan and on a par with
the US.

<P> This has been the case since 1974 when the Independent Commission Against
Corruption (ICAC) was set up. Between 1974 and 1995, 54,059 corruption
allegations were received, 30,928 of which were directed against public servants.
A total of 7,674 prosecutions resulted, 1,523 involving public servants and a
further 1,570 private individuals who had sought to bribe public servants. The
ICAC estimated in 1991 that the cash and gifts paid to mainland Chinese firms to
do business in China added between 3% and 5% to business operating costs.

<P> There is no reason to be believe the culture of Hong Kong is immune to
corruption should it fail to be policed properly. The principal fear is that
princeling sons and daughters of the Beijing elite, the People's Liberation Army
and mayors from China, will muscle their way into Hong Kong franchises. This
would quickly destroy the image of the level playing-field, which Hong Kong
financial secretary (the territory's equivalent of a finance minister) Donald
Tsang refers to as one of the pillars of the territory's success.

<P> Irregularities already emerge from time to time. A famous example led to the
resignation in May 1991 of the deputy chairman of the stock exchange, Philip Wong
Yu Hong. He had attempted to get the exchange's governing council to return to
the old practice of giving members preferential share allotments when new issues
were listed. His proposal was pushed through when exchange chairman Lee Quo Wei
was away. It was overturned as soon as he returned. Afterwards it emerged that
Piers Jacob, then financial secretary, had sought Wong's resignation not just
because of the share-allotment affair but because other transgressions had
emerged from an investigation of Ronald Li, the flamboyant former exchange
chairman, who was jailed for corruption.

<P> This has not prevented Wong, 42, from representing the business chamber in
the legislative council. The legislative council (Legco) is Hong Kong's lawmaking
body and membership is equivalent to being a UK MP or US congressman. Another
businessman, Chim Pui Chung, 49, represents the financial services constituency
in the legislature. He is on HK$40 million (US$5.1 million) bail on charges of
share irregularities in a property company.

<P> Nor are investors or tycoons averse to ingratiating themselves with their new
masters in Beijing. In 1993, for example, a Hong Kong fund was set up by TT Tsui
to invest US$25 million in China. There were to be 20 Hong Kong shareholders and
10 from the mainland. When word got out that premier Li Peng had sanctioned the
fund personally, it rapidly grew in size to US$65 million and 54 shareholders.

<P> The situation is not helped by the fact that a worrying number of public
servants are leaving. More than a third of the inspectorate level of the police
have indicated an intention to go. Between April 1995 and March 1996, 237
expatriates left the civil service. The director of public prosecutions, Peter
Nguyen, admits to losing 65 public prosecutors &#173; 59% of his staff &#173;
between 1993 and 1995. They had an average 12 years' experience. By law, the top
layer of the civil service now has to be ethnic Chinese.

<P> Some businessmen are already complaining of a fall in efficiency. Nick
Brooke, senior partner at property consultants Brooke Hillier Parker, says: "To
get a planning application approved to get a lease modified for an alternative
use can now take up to two years. It used to take a third of that time." About
70% of the companies listed on the stock exchange are real-estate related, so if
bureaucracy slows down the real estate sector it slows down the economy as a
whole. "I'm more concerned about bureaucracy than corruption," Brooke adds.
"Bureaucracy is a creeping malaise."

<P> Another practical issue concerns visas and work permits, the details of which
have not yet been explained and about which most investment bankers admit to
confusion. Frank Martin, a former banker now in charge of the American Chamber of
Commerce, says the present system has become more flexible in recent years.
Although regulations state expatriates should arrive in Hong Kong with their work
permits finalized, in practice most arrive first and sort out permits later. He
notes that if the authorities simply enforce the rules more strictly and are less
flexible, the numbers of <I>quai lohs</I> (politely translated as "foreigners")
coming to the territory would naturally decrease. This, however, would not affect
investment bankers and key staff so much as the transient young population that
reinforces Hong Kong's cosmopolitan image.

<P> In the run-up to the handover in July the Chinese political scene could get
messy. In September and October a National People's Congress is to be held at
which a new central committee is to be chosen, and premier Li Peng is to retire.
The resulting power struggle will coincide with the handover, and may make Hong
Kong something of a political pawn.

<P> Perhaps this sort of fear is why over half the companies listed on the stock
exchange now have their domicile outside Hong Kong.

<P> The most bearish on Hong Kong &#173; and on most matters &#173; is Hong
Kong-based Marc Faber, who owns Marc Faber Limited and is author of the widely
respected <I>Gloom, Boom and Doom Report</I>. He acknowledges that although the
Chinese authorities are fully aware of the territory's importance to its
interests, they will inevitably screw up: "You give your Porsche to your
18-year-old son. He doesn't want to run it into a wall. But the chances are he
will." Faber, who has the largest collection of Mao badges in the world, figuring
that if Americans collect baseball cards some of the 1.2 billion people of China
will collect Maoist memorabilia (recent price rises confirm he is right), adds:
"Hong Kong is a dark spot in the history of China. In 100 years' time Hong Kong
will be erased from Chinese history."

<P> He observes that while the US stock market is up 40% since January 1994, Hong
Kong is down from its high and all the Asian funds are overweight the Hang Seng
index. He says it is obvious that locals have been selling. His key doom scenario
involves the Hong Kong dollar. "Some time in the next five or 10 years the Dow
Jones will drop 40% from its high and capital flow to emerging markets will slow
down," he says. "China will need money and will get it from where it can. Hong
Kong is China's main trading partner and so it is illogical that the exchange
fund has no renminbi in its reserves. Hong Kong will be flooded with China stocks
and bonds, and at least 50% of the exchange fund will be invested in renminbi.
The next step will be to have just one currency."

<P> He further prophesies that Hong Kong will go the way of Venice, Tangier,
Salzburg and Goa. "They all became parts of empires," he says. "All the
privileges they were initially given were gradually abolished. In big societies
the easiest thing is to abolish the privileges of the few in favour of the many."

<P> <B>Reading the tea leaves</B>

<P> Perhaps the strongest warning comes from China itself. Li Ruihuan, a member
of the seven-man standing committee of the politburo, and tipped by some to be
the next premier, gave an address in March 1995 in which he likened the takeover
to the case of an old lady who had agreed to sell a 100-year-old Yi Xiang teapot
that was famous for the quality of the tea it poured. Unbeknown to her its
quality derived from the residue that had accumulated inside the pot. In her
eagerness to prepare the pot for the purchaser she polished it, removing the
residue. When the purchaser came to redeem the pot he pronounced it valueless.
The point is that Hong Kong's value lies mostly in qualities that Chinese
politicians and administrators do not understand. Too many small changes will
clean the pot and spoil the tea &#173; Hong Kong's prosperity and usefulness.

<P> In spite of such analogies, there is no doubt that there are far more
optimists in Hong Kong than pessimists.

<P> Henry Tang, whose business federation has 2,600 members, says: "The Chinese
authorities are exceptionally understanding of the Hong Kong situation. They
understand they must leave us alone as a free-enterprise capitalist society.
Without these things we'll merely become a coastal city of China." An American
Chamber of Commerce survey recently found that 91% of its membership said that
the business environment over the next five years would be favourable or very
favourable. The British Chamber of Commerce, whose members employ 250,000 Hong
Kongers, found in a recent survey that 98% of its members would stay until 2000.
"The media like bad news," says Patrick Paul, Britcham's chairman. "Everyone
wants it to go wrong. I think it might be all rather dull and anti-climactic."

<P> Alan Smith, chairman of Jardine Fleming, agrees: "It would be easy if you
live abroad to think there's a lot of danger ahead. But here, it's not a panicky
city." Andrew Lo, head of fund manager Invesco, takes a similar line of argument:
"I become more optimistic the more often I go to China." These opinions are <BR>
typical.

<P> "Both in terms of evidence and indications from the private sector, I don't
think that 1997 is a negative confidence factor," notes chief government
economist KY Tang. "Rather it is the reverse &#173; greater opportunities will
open to the Hong Kong business sector." He forecasts 5% annual growth over the
next four years.

<P> The principal reason for confidence is that Hong Kong is so important to
China. Between 1978 and 1994 an estimated US$100 billion has been invested in
China, 75% of it from Hong Kong. Almost 90% of syndicated loans for use in
mainland China are arranged in the territory. And Hong Kong companies have stakes
in 42,000 enterprises just across the border in Guangdong (Canton).

<P> "I've been to see Zhu Rongji [China's economic tsar] five times since I took
up this job," says Anthony Neoh, chairman of the Securities and Futures
Commission, sitting in front of a photograph of Queen Elizabeth II, "and each
time he reminds me of the practical importance of Hong Kong to China. There are
over 300,000 state-owned enterprises in China. Hong Kong can play an important
capital-formation role for China." At present there are 17 state-owned
enterprises listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange with a total market
capitalization of HK$100 billion.

<P> China also has a lot of money invested in Hong Kong. For example, China
International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) has a 20% stake in Hong
Kong Telecom, 25% in the second cross-harbour tunnel, 33% in Asia Satellite and
33% in Hong Kong Petrochemical. It has just substantially increased its stake in
Cathay Pacific airline. An estimated US$10 billion has been put into the property
market by Chinese trading companies. About half these funds belong to
quasi-national institutions such as China Resources, China Merchants and China
Construction. The rest belongs to regional enterprises like Guangdong Enterprises
and Catic (City of Canton). Mainland companies have invested an estimated US$30
billion in Hong Kong.

<P> The People's Liberation Army (PLA), which is estimated to have interests in
20,000 businesses inside China, is also in Hong Kong, with stakes in such firms
as Hong Kong Polytechnologies. In addition the PLA will inherit an estimated $70
billion of real estate, including Tamar, the British naval base that adjoins the
Central district. According to William Overholt, author of <I>The Rise of
China</I> and head of research at Bankers Trust: "There are dozens of PLA firms
in Hong Kong. They play by the rules and compete. They like the rules here
because they get much more autonomy to behave like businesses. Decisions aren't
politicized. They don't want to wreck this."

<P> Overholt, a renowned China-watcher, adds that the rumours that soldiers in
the PLA garrison will earn HK$1,000 per month and will get involved in checking
visas are misguided. "The PLA garrison is an elite unit and will be confined to
barracks. You'll see more American sailors in Wan Chai [a red-light district]
than Chinese soldiers."

<P> <B>Countering negative thought</B>

<P> What worries businesspeople is the negative image of the handover that is
constantly being portrayed by the media. One of those who is trying to restore
the balance is Paul Cheng, chairman of Inchcape Pacific, one of the great hongs
(foreign trading houses established in the 19th century). He is a member of the
preparatory committee China picked to deal with the transition. He is also a
legislative councillor. "A lot of people don't realize how flexible China is,"
says Cheng, who next to his armchair has a photograph of himself shaking hands
with Chinese president Jiang Zemin. "I was recently giving a speech in Australia.
The audience was surprised when I said that 12 members of the legislative council
[out of a total of 60] can be foreign passport-holders. What other country in the
world would <BR> do that?"

<P> Cheng, in common with many Hong Kong businessmen, has done his best to
cultivate relations in Beijing. Aside from his duties on the preparatory
committee, which at one stage meant spending five days every month in Beijing, he
was part of a delegation in March which was told by Chinese foreign minister Qian
Qichen: "The fewer changes there are in Hong Kong, the better."

<P> Perhaps the organization with most to lose is Hongkong Bank, which makes 52%
of its group profits in the city, and holds about 30% of the city's deposits
&#173; a similar figure to that held by the Bank of China. "We are bound to talk
a good story because of that," chief executive David Eldon candidly admits. "But
just look at that outcrop of land where the buses are," says the Scotsman,
pointing out of his wall-sized window. "Twenty-four months ago that was water.
That's why I'm confident. It's the people and the energy here that make Hong
Kong."

<P> Similarly confident is Citibank's Asia tai-pan, Stephen Long. "When I sit
down with customers we talk about business. We don't dwell over the handover," he
says. Indeed his main concern seems not to be July 1997 but the date when
property tycoon Li Ka-shing puts a 60-storey skyscraper on the site of the old
Hilton Hotel and ruins his view of the harbour.

<P> Hong Kong is <I>the </I>place to cover China &#173; so say the optimists. It
is likewise the most central location in Asia &#173; being Asian regional
headquarters for 51% of major companies. It is three hours' flying time from
Beijing, two hours from Bangkok, four hours from Tokyo, and three-and-a-half
hours from Singapore. Chek Lap Kok airport is due to be completed in 1998 and the
Airports Council International expects Hong Kong to have the world's busiest
airports by 2005, serving 82 million passengers a year.

<P> "They are communists, but they are changing," says Philip Wong (no relation
of the former stock exchange deputy chairman), the entrepreneur who established
and is head of Internet service Asia On-line. He has worked with China for 14
years. "Is China worse than Singapore in terms of censorship? No." The <I>South
China Morning Post</I> and the <I>Asian Wall Street Journal</I> can both be read
in international hotels in China &#173; without sections cut out. He ruefully
recalls it was the Crown Colony government that shut down his Internet service
for a day last year because it didn't understand it. "I had a press conference
and held up the <I>Idiot's Guide to the Internet </I>for the police commissioner
to read."

<P> Businesspeople are keen to stress how understanding the Chinese leadership
is. Overholt, who is as bullish as Faber is bearish, stresses several incidents
where he and Hong Kong businesspeople have taken their problems to Beijing and
got their way. He also recalls a lunch with one of those who will contend for the
premiership next autumn, Wu Bangguo. "The president of Duty Free Shops was
sitting beside me at lunch and mentioned to Wu Bangguo that he had just opened a
shop in Beijing. He replied that he knew of it and described the shop in great
detail, speaking of its strategy."

<P> Overholt continues: "The best indicator is not necessarily what Chinese
leaders say, but how they spend their time. Wu spent his getting briefed about
the economy and foreign investment. He's the kind of guy that if he took over IBM
in trouble he would instil confidence."

<P> There are three key reasons why the Beijing authorities cannot afford for
Hong Kong not to work &#173; in the medium term at least. The first is simply
China's economic need for growth and the city's ability to generate it. The
second is Taiwan. Deng's one-country, two-systems philosophy was originally
developed with Taiwan in mind &#173; if the People's Republic can show the system
works in Hong Kong, then the much bigger prize of Taiwan may follow, finally
uniting China. Finally, there is enormous face at stake. If China screws up what
Britain ran so well, it will prove the foreign devils are better rulers than the
people of the Middle Kingdom, and China will be embarrassed in front of the whole
world. So goes the received logic.

<P> Little wonder, then, that men like David Li Kwok-po, deputy chairman and
chief executive of the Bank of East Asia, have become positive. "I feel more and
more confident as time goes by," says the Cambridge-educated Li. "To be perfectly
honest, I think it will be much better than colonial government because that
encouraged certain interests."

<P> Hong Kong businesspeople like to talk about this as a takeover, using the
analogy that the territory is really like a very well run conglomerate. The
analogy fits all the better for the fact that China will replace the British
governor with a chief executive. The chief executive has an executive council,
which acts in almost the same way as a board of directors, approving major policy
decisions. The company analogy only starts to become a little contrived when you
try to fit the 60-person legislative council (Legco) into the scheme of things.
This is the lawmaking body for Hong Kong and has traditionally acted as a check
on the governor. For most of British rule, it was about as democratic as
18th-century Britain, with government appointees supplemented by councillors
elected by monied interests and compliant to those interests. This all changed
when the British decided to hand Hong Kong back to China, and current governor
Chris Patten made it more answerable to the mass of the populace.

<P> In the short term, Legco is the most explosive and potentially disruptive
single issue facing the people of Hong Kong. Both Britain and China deny
responsibility for this, but the process of making Legco more democratic has
thrown up a good few problems.

<P> Briefly, the present Legco, elected in 1995, was supposed to run till 1999.
This was called the through-train principle, and was supposed to guarantee some
continuity and stability for Hong Kong. A gradual process of democratization was
laid out by China for the following two elections. However &#173; rightly or
wrongly &#173; Patten made use of China's deliberately vague wording on the
process for electing Legco in 1995 to speed up reforms. Patten extended the
so-called functional constituencies &#173; which traditionally were hardly
democratic at all &#173; to make them very democratic. For example, the
electorate for accountancy came to include everyone who worked at an accountancy
firm, down to the doorman, where previously it would just have consisted of
partners. In 1981 the electorate numbered 34,381. After Patten's reforms 2.7
million were enfranchised.

<P> The Beijing authorities were livid. Patten was condemned and called a
"strutting prostitute" and a "two-headed snake". More important, the Chinese
declared the through train derailed and the elections invalid.

<P> As matters stand, a pro-Beijing selection committee of 400 people is being
formed that will "elect" a temporary Legco until "proper" elections can be held
in 1998, thus putting an unceremonious halt to the idea of a
democratically-elected through train to 1999. Only 16 members of the existing
Legco will probably sit on the 400-strong selection committee.

<P> The winners of the 1995 elections, for which there was a turnout of about one
million, were the Democrats, a party run by Martin Lee (see interview on page
82). His party received 52% of the popular vote, but since only one-sixth of the
population voted it has been argued that this does not constitute a conclusive
mandate to speak for the people of Hong Kong.

<P> <B>Martyrs and moneymakers</B>

<P> The danger is clearly that Hong Kong, a business city, has done very well
exactly because it has never been a political city. However, it is fast becoming
one. The Chinese, rightly or wrongly, feel cheated that Britain introduced
political intrigue into the system only as they were getting ready to pull down
the flag and leave. What is resulting is an increasing schism between the tycoons
who generate the wealth and the Democrats who win the votes. The tycoons are
especially suspicious of Lee. They have the feeling that he wants to antagonize
Beijing with the ultimate goal of being arrested on July 1 1997 and becoming a
martyr.

<P> Ronnie Chan, chairman of top property company Hang Lung Development and a
board member of Standard Chartered Bank, has been inviting members of his 2,000
staff to lunch to "take their temperatures". Do they care about Legco? "They
don't give a damn," says Chan. "The issue didn't come up, although I danced
around it. I invited eight secretaries. But all they were really bothered about
was their children's education." Chan also says he had lunch with the Democrat
Party's economic spokesman. "He didn't know a thing about economics. It scared
me." It turns out the economic spokesman of the Democrat Party is a neurologist
by profession.

<P> George Chao, head of Wah Kwong Shipping and chairman of the Hong Kong
Shipowners Association, strikes a similar note. "Hong Kong at the moment has
overdemocracy and too much social welfare," he says. "It will lose some of its
competitiveness. Hong Kong is not cheap." Chao, who employs 5,000 continues: "The
reason we have no manufacturing industry is you cannot afford to employ too many
people because it is too expensive to sack them. Democrats are to blame for this.
In Hong Kong only the system works. We have nothing other than people." Funding
the welfare system took up 35% of government expenditure in 1985. By 1995 the
figure had risen to nearly 50%.

<P> A more statistically accurate barometer of Hong Kong public opinion exists
than Chan's lunches. It is the Hong Kong Transition Report, which has been
running since 1992. Its latest survey in February 1996 threw up some interesting
results. An encouraging 46% responded that they would freely join China, 54% said
they saw no problem with the People's Liberation Army being on their streets and
85% said they were currently satisfied with life. However, 50% of respondents
expected corruption to have serious effects on the economy after 1997, and only
7% expected it to have no effect.

<P> Who should be nominated chief executive? The poll was overwhelmingly in
favour of the current chief secretary &#173; Hong Kong's highest civil service
appointment &#173; Anson Chan. She obtained 45% of the vote. However, her chances
of being appointed by the authorities in Beijing look slim, above all because she
is tainted with serving under Patten and the British.

<P> Choosing the chief executive is likely to be difficult. The London School of
Economics' Michael Yahuda refers to the process in his book <I>Hong Kong: China's
Challenge</I>: "In early 1995 some scholars in Beijing claimed that the central
leaders wanted someone whom they could trust; someone who at the same time would
enjoy the confidence of the business community; someone who would be a
high-profile figure, respected internationally, who would enjoy the confidence of
the international financial community. When asked as to whether any such person
existed, they freely confessed they did not know of one."

<P> Contenders include Peter Woo, 49, who used to head the Wharf and Wheelock
groups, but recently took over the territory's hospital supervisory board and
applied McKinsey-style management techniques to improve its efficiency. A good
candidate, he unfortunately supported Patten's electoral reforms, a political
gaffe that may work against him. Leung Chun-ying is another property magnate, who
has made some brilliant connections in Beijing and was made vice-chairman of the
150-person preparatory committee. However, at 41 he may be too young.

<P> TS Lo has said he wants the job, although his public approval rating is below
1%. His connections are good, as is his game of mahjong. His magazine,
<I>Window</I>, is suitably pro-China, even though his family is steeped in
colonial history with connections to the first compradores of the British trading
houses. But he started to deny this legacy almost a decade ago when he resigned
from the executive council, a central plank of the colonial establishment, then
he dropped his CBE (Commander of the British Empire) and took a Chinese passport.
The contrarian and bearish Faber thinks Lo is the only candidate with a
personality strong enough to stand up to Beijing.

<P> The only other person to have gone public with his ambitions is the chief
justice, Sir Ti Liang Yang. He is viewed as a compromise candidate because he has
few business connections. He is originally from Shanghai. But critics suggest his
very lack of business experience may count against him.

<P> The favourite &#173; barring surprises &#173; continues to be shipping tycoon
Tung Chee-hwa, who, like Leung, is a vice-chairman of the preparatory committee.
In an impressive and maybe significant gesture, president Jiang Zemin chose to
shake his hand ostentatiously at a recent gathering of the preparatory committee
in Beijing. His chances are further enhanced by the fact that he never seems to
have gone on record saying <I>anything</I>, and does a grand job of keeping a low
profile.

<P> The result of the "election" will probably become public in late November or
early December.

<P> The chief executive's responsibilities will include liaising with Beijing to
make certain the Basic Law &#173; which could be described as Hong Kong's
constitution &#173; is upheld, thus maintaining business confidence. The law
contains some impressive guarantees, such as Article 22: "No department of the
Central People's Government and no province, autonomous region, or municipality
directly under the Central Government may interfere in the affairs which the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region administers on its own in accordance with this
law."

<P> Towards the end, though, there are a couple of sobering passages. Article 158
reads: "The power of interpretation of this law shall be vested in the Standing
Committee of the National People's Congress" &#173; meaning China. And Article
159 goes further: "The power of amendment of this law shall be vested in the
National People's Congress" &#173; China again. So putting your faith in the
Basic Law's promises is simply a matter of how much you trust the leaders sitting
in Beijing &#173; they can change anything whenever they wish.

<P> "China can always change the Basic Law," notes Shiu Sin Por, head of the
pro-China economic think-tank, the One Country Two Systems Economic Research
Institute. "China can improve it in ways that allow the courts to make the kind
of decisions that were intended when China drafted the Basic Law," he adds.

<P> Cynics look to China National Aviation Corporation (CNAC) when they want to
prove China-watching is not always logical or fruitful. In a recent deal CNAC and
China-controlled Citic Pacific bought into British hong Swire Pacific's stakes in
the territory's flagship airlines. CNAC bought 36% of Dragonair at a mere seven
times estimated earnings per share, and Citic raised its stake in Cathay Pacific
to 25% at a 15% discount to Cathay's share price. The deal got mixed reactions,
but informed observers agreed that at least it would prevent CNAC continuing to
apply for a licence to operate out of Hong Kong, thereby disturbing the status
quo. A joint press statement read: "CNAC Group will use Dragonair as a vehicle
for the development of its airline interests in Hong Kong."

<P> <B>Competing against oneself</B>

<P> At the time of writing this assumption appeared to have been turned on its
head. CNAC had not withdrawn its application for a licence. It still wished to
get one to operate its own flights under the name China Hong Kong Airlines, and
Wang Guixiang, chairman of CNAC Hong Kong, recently said the airline certificate
and Dragonair were not related matters. "You cannot relate these two matters," he
said rather mystically. The situation is thus a bizarre example of a top Hong
Kong company exercising a sensible forward strategy with China in good faith,
while the Chinese corporation pursues a contrary strategy of its own. Moreover,
if the reports are to be believed, CNAC has rather illogically invested in an
airline, only to set up a rival that may put it out of business.

<P> In the midst of such operational uncertainty, it's no wonder that one
investment bank has set up a trading floor in Singapore &#173; with only six
people on it. "It will get used more in the future," says a source. "But
basically it's a contingency plan."

<P> Perhaps a bigger danger than even the takeover for the city's role as a
financial centre  is the appalling standard of spoken English. (Not least a
problem with taxi-drivers, who on the whole don't speak it at all.) Financial
secretary Donald Tsang says he's budgeting to employ 2,000 teachers who speak
English as a mother tongue. "With the status of English likely to be scaled back
after 1997, this is an area which needs to be kept under constant review," says
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority's strategy report.

<P> There is already evidence of a shortage of English speakers. Hong Kong
Telecom's directory assistance calls are answered in Guangdong province in China.
And the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce has sought permission to import as
many as 100,000 English-speakers from the mainland to fill positions.

<P> Localization also continues in the upper echelons of Hong Kong business and
society. Vincent Cheng is the first Chinese to be appointed to Hongkong Bank's
board and is tipped as David Eldon's heir apparent. And those <I>quai lohs</I>
who still retain power know it won't be for long. "Five years from now there'll
be a Hong Kong Chinese sitting in this chair," says Rod Eddington, chief
executive of Cathay Pacific, without malice.

<P> Meanwhile the most important man in Hong Kong is no longer the taipan of the
noble trading house Jardine Matheson, but Larry Yung, head of Citic Pacific. Son
of Chinese vice-president Rong Yiren, he has been made chairman of the (Royal)
Hong Kong Golf Club, which leases its land from the government at very favourable
rates. And while Jardines no longer has one of the 12 stewards' seats at the
Jockey Club, Yung now does, along with a champion racehorse called Mr Vitality.

<P> After the sun finally sets on Britain's colonial ambitions at midnight on
June 30 1997, journalists will probably find their first story before lunch at
the (previously Royal) Yacht Club. There the noon-day gun &#173; the one referred
to in Noel Coward's song <I>Mad Dogs and Englishmen</I> &#173; was first fired
early last century as a punishment imposed on its owner, Jardines. The local
British naval commander was upset that the hong's gun was bigger than his own and
ordered it fired every day at noon. It has been ever since. But will this gun, so
steeped in colonial history &#173; and belonging to Jardines, the noble house of
the James Clavell novel &#173; be fired in the new Hong Kong, a Special
Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China?

<P> A source close to the gun hopes it will be: "We have been promised a high
degree of autonomy and we have been guaranteed that Hong Kong's way of life will
remain unchanged. The gun will be the first test." *

<H2> <B>The future according to Martin Lee</B> </H2> <P> <I>Martin Lee is
chairman of the Democratic Party, Hong Kong's largest political party. The
Democrats received 52% of the popular vote in the 1995 legislative council
elections. He spoke to Steven Irvine about his hopes and fears for the
territory's future</I>

<P> <B>If you were an international business would you feel comfortable being in
Hong Kong in 1997?</B>

<P> If I were putting money into Hong Kong I would look at the rule of law. Today
if something goes wrong, it goes to the courts and you know you get a fair
hearing. After 1997 we will have a Court of Final Appeal in Hong Kong, but the
problem is that when the Court of Final Appeal has to decide a case which
involves an interpretation of the Basic Law &#173; our constitution &#173; the
court must reserve judgement and remit that point of law to Beijing. Here it will
be looked at by a political body, the Standing Committee of the National People's
Congress. They're not even a group of lawyers. They're politicians.

<P> To give you an example. Suppose the Bank of America were to sue the Bank of
China for $20 billion of unrepaid debt. The leaders of China might say, we can't
afford to pay this, because it would mean bankrupting the Bank of China. A lawyer
may well advise them, despite the contract, to call it an act of state. [Hong
Kong has no jurisdiction over these.]

<P> How can you say this is an act of state? Well, they will say, clearly this
Bank of America is now trying to bankrupt the Bank of China, and how can they
allow that? Anyway it's the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress
that determines whether it's an act of state or not. So the Bank of America
loses. "It is an act of state, so we have no jurisdiction any more," the Hong
Kong court tells it. "Sorry."

<P> <B>What would be your other concerns?</B>

<P> Individual freedoms. When foreign companies send their top executives to Hong
Kong, how safe are they? Suppose they have a dispute with a China-funded company.
I should give you the example of James Peng. He worked in Hong Kong and
subsquently obtained an Australian passport. He then went to China to do
business. He found a partner, a niece of Deng Xiaoping, and the business, called
Champagne, prospered. But then he had a legal battle with his erstwhile partner.
She won in a Chinese court, but on appeal he won back, and in China there is only
one appeal. So legally he was in a very strong position. One morning he was in
Macau, and was abducted and spirited away into China where he was kept in custody
because his erstwhile partner had a lot of clout.

<P> He was kept there without being charged for two years. Ultimately the Chinese
government made a new law. He was convicted retrospectively and was given 15
years in jail. The Australian government has made over 100 protests. Of course,
I'm painting a very negative scenario, but it could happen.

<P> <B>But there does seem to be a lot of optimism among business people.</B>

<P> Of course: it's in their interests to preach optimism, because it is hoped
that more people will invest in Hong Kong. The stock market is relatively small
and can be manipulated by money from China. I'm sure they will have already told
tycoons, okay let's all make money. You put the money in now, buy shares, then we
put the money in and buy shares, we all make money. Why not?

<P> <B>Many of the Chinese leaders, especially the foreign minister, have been
making positive noises.</B>

<P> My experience with the communists is that individually they are nice guys,
but when it is the Communist Party they all speak with one voice.

<P> <B>What are you going to be doing June 30 at midnight?</B>

<P> We don't know, but we'll do something.

<P> <B>Do you think you'll be a martyr?</B>

<P> I don't intend to die yet. I also don't believe there will be political
assassination.

<H2> <B>Long live the Shanghai mafia</B> </H2> <P> The "election" of the new
Central Committee and prime minister in Beijing next September will create some
uncertainty for Hong Kong but throws up interesting possibilities.

<P> Notably, all the candidates to succeed Li Peng as prime minister of the State
Council are considered less hard-line and more moderate than the incumbent. Wu
Bangguo is thought to be president Jiang Zemin's candidate. Li Ruihuan, chairman
of the Chinese People's Consultative Conference, has a mandate to deal with
Chinese peoples outside China and is considered a reformer. He was the originator
of the perceptive teapot analogy which refers to the Hong Kong problem. Qiao Shi,
in his role as chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's
Congress, has come out in favour of the rule of law in China &#173; partly
because that shifts more power to the National People's Congress, which he runs.
And Zhu Rongji, the economic tsar of China, has consistently made the right
noises about Hong Kong &#173; he even modiWed an investment tax designed to curb
speculation after Hong Kong businesspeople explained it would be detrimental to
their investment plans in China.

<P> Of those listed, only Li Peng, the current premier, does not speak English.
Zhu Rongji's English is so good that he often corrects the nuances of his
translator. Jiang Zemin is famous for quoting whole sections of the us
constitution to Bill Clinton. Both Zhu Rongi and Jiang Zemin are former mayors of
Shanghai. Qiao Shi was educated at Shanghai Tongji University, while foreign
minister Qian Qichen was born in Shanghai, and Wu Bangguo spent his entire career
in Shanghai, eventually becoming secretary of the Shanghai Municipal Committee.

<P> The optimists in Hong Kong say that as long as the Shanghai maWa hold sway,
Hong Kong's future will be relatively secure. It's comforting that the newly
published oYcial Chinese dictionary no longer contains ultra-leftist terms. It
does include new entries such as "karaoke" and "special economic zone". <B>&#173;
<I>SI</I></B>

<H2> <B>"We just cannot go back"</B> </H2> <P> <I>Donald Tsang is Hong Kong's
financial secretary. He is the second most important civil servant in Hong Kong,
and although unelected his role is similar to that of a finance minister. This is
an edited version of an interview he gave to Steven Irvine </I>

<P> <B>Is it possible to separate politics from business?</B>

<P> Only to a certain extent. In Hong Kong our political stability rests entirely
on our economic performance. Our value to China rests largely on our economic
prosperity.

<P> <B>Do you think investors should be concerned that because the Chinese have
already broken the Basic Law by abolishing the elected legislature it sets a bad
precedent? </B>

<P> China has never accepted that it has broken the Basic Law by reconstituting
the legislature, because the Basic Law starts to run on July 1 1997.

<P> What I am more concerned about is how the legislature is actually
constituted, and whether it will have the support of the community here, and what
credibility it will have.

<P> <B>But intelligent investors might then think, well, is the rule of law going
to be that important?</B>

<P> The rule of law is absolutely important, and underlines Hong Kong's success.
It is one of the four pillars: freedom of the press, freedom from corruption in
public service, the rule of law and a level playing-field. These are the four
pillars underpinning Hong Kong's success, and the nature of what I call Hong
Kong-style capitalism.

<P> <B>Of your four pillars, freedom of the press is vulnerable. One article said
China has indicated through its ministry of information that it might manage the
press.</B>

<P> I think that's probably an erroneous report. We are going to practise the
Basic Law here. The freedom of the press is enshrined in the Basic Law. Of course
you cannot slander, or get involved in subversive activities. I think that's
probably what the Chinese authorities referred to &#173; exaggerated, I'm afraid,
by some reporters.

<P> <B>And corruption?</B>

<P> China's China, Hong Kong's Hong Kong. We will no longer stomach corruption in
Hong Kong. We rose from that level in the 1970s when we established the
Independent Commission Against Corruption. We just cannot go back.

<P> <B>If for example you were being pressured by an official in China on a
government tender, would you resign?</B>

<P> First, how would he pressure me? There is no way he can do it. Our
procurement procedures are transparent. If anybody tried to ring me up and
threaten me, that Chinese official would end up in jail &#173; if he's in Hong
Kong.

<P> If the chief executive asked me to show favouritism, again that's against the
law. I might resign or the chief executive might end up in jail. I just don't see
it.

<P> But I do understand the question. During [investment] roadshows, people
always ask me similar questions. But I come back again to the Basic Law. What is
important is for us to defend those rights. I'm not saying that there will not be
pressure, but it is for us Hong Kong people to stand up to it. And because of the
transparent way we do things in Hong Kong, such shenanigans will be apparent to
all and sundry.

<P> <B>If you saw signs of corruption would you resign?</B>

<P> Why should I resign? I would stamp it out.

<P> <B>But if you felt that it was impossible to do anything about it?</B>

<P> How could that happen? But of course, if it was something I felt I could not
do anything about I would resign.

<H2> <B>In the midnight hour</B> </H2> <P> At the stroke of midnight a bevy of
international handshakers will be in Hong Kong for what promises to be the
biggest party of 1997. Over 2,400 journalists will also be there, including a
posse from cnn that has booked 60 rooms in the territory's most central hotel,
the Mandarin Oriental &#173; for three whole weeks.

<P> Nothing is certain about the handover celebration except that it will happen
on June 30 1997. The Chinese authorities have a "celebration committee" working
on it but have released very few details. Planning would appear to revolve around
whether the long-standing leader, Deng Xiaoping, is still alive and able to go.

<P> Another piece of protocol is not a matter of life or death, but gossip has it
that the Queen will send either Prince Charles or Princess Anne to represent her,
depending on how much face the British government wants to give the Chinese. The
governor, Chris Patten, known locally as <I>Fei Pang</I> or Fat Patten, may
possibly sail away on the Royal Yacht <I>Britannia</I> in a dramatic exit from
the Fragrant Harbour the gunboats Wrst sailed into over 150 years before.

<P> China will inherit the 89th largest population in the world and a territory
with a gdp a Wfth the size of its own; the eighth largest trading "nation" in the
world, and an economy recently reckoned by the Heritage Foundation's index of
economic freedom to be the world's freest. In just a small central part of its
1,036 square kilometres it houses 80 of the world's top 100 banks and a Wnancial
services labour force of 350,000 &#173; just 50,000 short of New York's.

<P> Hong Kong has been British since the victories over China in two separate
drugs wars &#173; or opium wars, as history chooses to call Britain's enforcement
of freedom to trade narcotics. Both the treaty of Nanking and the Convention of
Peking guaranteed that the uk would govern both Hong Kong island and the Kowloon
peninsula until the end of the world. However, a third treaty was signed in 1898
by British minister Sir Claude MacDonald to lease the New Territories beyond
Kowloon for 99 years. This makes up 92% of the territory's land mass and it is
its lease that runs out on June 30 1997, making retention of Hong Kong untenable,
militarily and politically. <B>&#173;</B> <B><I>SI</I></B>

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-74</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B037-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.7.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123924 text/html 48435
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:38:18 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 17:55:11 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 48195
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3>FINANCE MINISTER OF THE YEAR</H3>


<H2> <B>Rubin: quietly getting things done</B> </H2> 

<H4> <B>Robert Rubin,
secretary of the US treasury, has faced tough situations and made tough
decisions. In a remarkably short time, he dealt with the Mexico crisis and put
the dollar back on course, demonstrating a rare grasp of both domestic politics
and global markets. By Katharine Morton</B> </H4> 

<P> When Robert Rubin became
treasury secretary in January 1995 he faced his first real test immediately: the
escalating Mexico crisis.

<P> "It was a major thing to be confronted with, and it took a great deal of guts
to react as quickly as he did under the gun," says a former colleague from
Rubin's days on Wall Street. Rubin was at Goldman Sachs for 26 years before
leaving in 1992 to become Bill Clinton's chief economic adviser, directing the
National Economic Council.

<P> As the localized risk of Mexico's defaulting snowballed into a potential
global crisis for all emerging markets, Rubin played a leading role in arranging
the $40 billion rescue plan, $12 billion of which came from the US.

<P> But there had been many who had turned up their noses at the idea of having a
Wall Street man in the treasury. The question on many lips was: would he look
after his own kind?

<P> "Unequivocally, the last thing he would do would be to bail out his former
chums on Wall Street," comments the former colleague. "The criticisms levelled at
him after the Mexico affair were unfair."

<P> Nonetheless, Wall Street and the business community should be glad that he is
there. Indeed, with hindsight, the price the US paid to bail out Mexico was cheap
compared with the damage that could have been done had it been allowed to
default.

<P> The Mexico crisis characterized Rubin's modus operandi: frequently working in
the background, fixing, negotiating, broking, and quietly getting things done.
But it is not the only example where his mix of financial acumen and low-profile
action have produced results.

<P> One of Rubin's most impressive achievements was to turn around the fortunes
of the dollar in the summer of 1995. His predecessor at the treasury, Lloyd
Bentsen, was an advocate of a weaker dollar to help US exporters. But when it
became clear that it was time to raise the dollar from its post-World War II lows
against the yen, the market proved resistant to government intervention. Rubin
changed that. His strategy successfully broke the link between the issue of trade
and the value of the dollar, and eventually persuaded the market to believe that
the US currency would no longer be used as a trade tool.

<P> This was backed by very clever intervention tactics. "He has an instinctive
feel for when to intervene," says an international economist. The Fed became more
discerning about when and how to intervene, catching the right trigger levels,
coordinating with other central banks, and eventually persuading the market that
it could be caught short if it bet against the dollar. This approach was in
marked contrast to the Bank of Japan, which hammered the market daily with yen
sales, costing itself a fortune.

<P> Before joining Clinton's team, Rubin, educated at Harvard, Yale and the
London School of Economics, was the head of the fixed-income department at
Goldman Sachs and spent two years as co-senior partner and co-chairman.

<P> "What's unusual about Goldman Sachs is that we have developed a teamwork
culture and encouraged a cross-disciplinary approach," says a former colleague
from the investment bank. "A great enemy in Washington is turf orientation. It is
fascinating and sad that Bob's qualities are considered such a rarity."

<P> <B>Open-door policy</B>

<P> The 58-year-old Rubin has an open-door and relaxed managerial style. "I get
the people who contribute most to a discussion, sit them at a table, forget how
senior or junior they are and try to thrash something out," he says. "Obviously
you have to combine that with the willingness to bring it to a close and make a
decision &#173; it doesn't do any good simply to have a talk-fest."

<P> According to his colleagues, Rubin has deeply held political views, but is
not an ideologue and is very pragmatic about what is workable. Away from his
desk, the treasury secretary is an ardent fisherman. A former colleague quips
that he "knows some of the fish in South Florida by their first names".

<P> Rubin is convinced that Clinton, if re-elected, will be committed to a
dynamic second term. "I know the president quite well," he adds, "and I know he
cares enormously about what he accomplishes subsequently. He's got a lot done in
the four years he's been here and I think there's a real opportunity to get
[more] done."

<P> But Rubin is circumspect about his own future. If Clinton wins, does he hope
to be reappointed? "If [the president] so wishes, I assume I would be. There's a
question whether I so wish," Rubin adds. "I've got a lot left to do over the next
few months and that's what I'll focus on. Then, come the end of the year, the
president has to make his decision and I've got to sort out what I'm going to
do."

<P> But some in Washington speculate that Rubin is destined for an even higher
post, perhaps secretary of state.

<H2> <B>Rubin: "Solid growth and low inflation"</B> </H2> <P> <B>Your policy this
time last year to push the dollar up against the yen looks right for the Japanese
economy. But isn't Japan still in a bad state?</B>

<P> Japan was doing better, and it's maybe softening somewhat.

<P> If you go back four or five years the rest of the world was rightly saying
that the US fiscal position was not under control and that we needed to get our
deficit down. That view probably did have some effect on the dollar. The
consensus here was that it needed to be done, and the president came along and
provided the leadership to get it done.

<P> Similarly, the world has an interest in the ability of the second-largest
economy to be prosperous. The Japanese monetary authorities need to monitor
what's happening and provide whatever mix of monetary and fiscal policy is
necessary in order for Japan to have sustained growth.

<P> <B>Were you trying to help Japan with your calls for a strong dollar?</B>

<P> No. We were acting [solely] with respect to the dollar. We were doing so in
furtherance of the view that it's in our interest to have a strong dollar. A
strong dollar helps us fight inflation and keep interest rates lower. That was
what drove us, not an effort to help Japan.

<P> <B>The market got mixed up on the difference between your calls for a
"stronger" dollar and calls for a "strong" dollar. Which is it?</B>

<P> As far as I can recollect we have always said a strong dollar. There may be
some time, if you say it often enough, that you said stronger when you meant
strong. The concept, though, has always been exactly the same, which is a strong
dollar.

<P> <B>Does that imply you're happy with current levels?</B>

<P> No. Nor does it imply that I'm not. It really means what I say &#173; that a
strong dollar is in our interests. I never comment on particular levels, though I
guess I did when the dollar was very low when there were imbalances.

<P> <B>Is the US economy going to slow in the second half?</B>

<P> I don't ever try and make projections on quarters or halves, largely because
having spent 26 years on Wall Street I became convinced that trying to predict
particular numbers for particular quarters &#173; while it consumes very large
numbers of people &#173; is not an enormously fruitful exercise. What is
[fruitful] is trying to keep an eye on what is happening over time. The economy
is very well positioned right now to continue growing; one quarter may be better,
the next may be worse. I don't know what the second half will be like, and nobody
else does either, but we are well positioned to have sustained growth and low
inflation, assuming we do the right things, don't make major policy mistakes, and
that we always allow for the effects of unpredictable exogenous events.

<P> <B>Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole has been saying the economy can
grow faster &#173; at 4% a year &#173; without accelerating inflation. What's
your view?</B>

<P> We inherited an economic mess. The seminal event was the deficit reduction
measures of 1993. We have taken the right policy steps and have had a very good
economy as a consequence. Over time, we can increase the full capacity rate of
growth of the economy, but that is done by staying on a fiscally responsible
path. That was the threshold issue of 1993. Doing the kind of things the
president is talking about &#173; [improving] education and training &#173; we
can increase the full capacity rate of growth.

<P> <B>What will be the economic reforms of a second Clinton term?</B>

<P> Education is very central. And not just in the traditional sense: you come
back to how you equip your people over a lifetime to keep up with changes and be
productive and therefore competitive.

<P> <B>Dole has come out with $548 billion in tax-cut proposals. How do you
defeat that?</B>

<P> The problem is he has no way to pay for it. If such a plan were ever put into
action, it would have two effects. One would be severe cuts in the areas he has
left on the table. Since that would include education, environmental protection
and other areas that are important to our economic future, it would be adverse to
the economy. Second, even after doing that, there would still be a vast gap that
would substantially increase the deficit. That would increase interest rates and
undermine confidence in the economy. The American people understand there is no
free lunch in economic policy. There has been a maturing of understanding. While
everybody would like to have large tax cuts, large tax cuts that aren't paid for
carry with them enormous costs.

<P> <B>Should inflation be brought down further to create price stability?</B>

<P> I don't want to say I think one rate of inflation is okay and another is not,
but what you need to do is have solid growth and low inflation. We have that
solid growth and low inflation.

<P> <B>Has your Wall Street experience helped you second-guess the markets?</B>

<P> I don't believe in second-guessing the markets. My Wall Street experience has
been enormously helpful, as has my two years at the White House and my two years
here. Global financial markets are a large part of what determines interest
rates. It's very important in a modern finance ministry to have a real
understanding of how global markets work.

<P> <B>You were opposed to inflation-indexed bonds. Why did you change your
mind?</B>

<P> Because you need to keep an open mind. I became persuaded that they would be
a very useful savings vehicle for middle-income people. Once I became convinced
of that, everything else fell into place because then I could see this as having
potentially a very large market and enabling the government to finance more
cheaply. When it was originally described to me, I thought it would be limited to
certain kinds of institutions.

<P> <B>The markets were disappointed that you weren't going to issue all along
the yield curve.</B>

<P> We are going to, in time. I don't think initially we want to issue all along
the yield curve because if we do that it will reduce the liquidity of each of
issue. The object over time is to have issues &#173; not all across the yield
curve because it is already an adjustable mechanism &#173; but we need some
number of maturities. At least initially [we] will start at 10-year or 30-year.

<P> <B>Are you going to allow them to be stripped? Some people have said you
won't.</B>

<P> That's not true &#173; it was [just] what someone reported. Our present
thought is they should be strippable from the very beginning.

<P> <B>Do you believe they could be a useful tool to help the Fed &#173; for
example to see what the market predicts for inflation?</B>

<P> That could be a side benefit, but it's not a reason for doing it.

<P> <B>In retrospect, the policy of helping Mexico financially looks the right
one.</B>

<P> It was right whether it worked or didn't work. We had an enormous
self-interest in seeing that Mexico didn't go out of control and the only way we
could pursue that interest was through that support programme. I would say that
today just as surely if it hadn't worked. [But] it is working. Mexico's got a lot
to do, obviously, but we've got most of our money back.

<P> <B>How many countries around the world would a similar factor apply to?</B>

<P> Mexico was close to unique.

<P> <B>Would Russia come into the same boat?</B>

<P> I'd say unique, or close to unique. One of the clear lessons of the Mexican
situation was that in a global economy there has to be some way of dealing with
these kinds of situations. The president had a lot of guts to take that on. It
was unpopular then and it's still unpopular, even though we've got 75% of our
money back.

<P> I went in to see him that Monday night at the Oval office and said, "Mr
President, we're within a few days of default and it would have these
consequences in our view, including an effect on other countries" &#173; even
though some people were sceptical about that. I said to him it was not popular in
the polls, but that it would be the right thing to do for the country. He said,
"Let's go ahead and do it."

<P> The president's political courage saved the world a major problem, but what
we have learned out of this is we must have some enhanced multilateral
capability.

<P> Antonio Fazio has been governor of the Banca d'Italia since May 1993, and is
only the sixth governor since the war. That's remarkable continuity in a country
renowned for the short duration of its governments. Fazio is a force both for
stability and consistency.

<P> He is not one for endless policy statements or public appearances. He
demonstrates his monetary policy priorities through firm and consistent signals,
and his control over the banking sector through regulation and moral suasion. And
when Fazio disagrees with the government, he is forthright about it. "It's my job
to persuade the government of the weak points of the Italian system," he says.

<P> Fazio's case is furthered by the exceptional understanding between himself
and Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, minister of treasury and budget in the Prodi government
(and Fazio's predecessor as central bank governor). It also means the market
knows that the one will not thwart the other. "There are two central bank
governors in command of the Italian economy past and present &#173; Ciampi and
Fazio," says one Italian economist. "It's a fantastic situation which reaps great
benefits for the country in terms of stabilization and growth. They are both on
the same wavelength."

<P> Fazio's target is to reduce inflation in Italy to significantly below 3% a
year. He does not think monetary policy can be a precise tool, but he would
rather be criticized for having too restrictive a monetary policy than the
opposite. The central bank's authority to decide interest rates is a blunt-edged
weapon. Tight monetary policy dampens growth and employment prospects, and some
commentators see this as an awkward burden for a man who has a highly developed
social conscience and deeply held religious beliefs.

<P> But as one senior former colleague points out: "He wants to achieve his goals
in an equitable way." Fazio himself sees no long-term conflict between efficient
monetary policy and social equity: "Everyone must have at least the opportunity
to share in the fruits of economic progress. In Italy now this essentially means
reducing unemployment, especially among young people." He adds: "It is the
poorest classes which lose. When you fight inflation, there can be negative
effects on employment, but in the long run the periods of greatest prosperity [in
Italy] have been during periods of stable inflation."

<P> It is clear that the central bank, legally independent since 1993, is trying
hard to meet the conditions for European monetary union. However, the governor
will not be drawn on the debate about the feasibility of Italy's doing so. Fazio
will comment only that he wants Italian inflation down to average G7 levels.

<P> Fazio's own credentials as a first-rate economist and monetary theorist are
impressive. His degree in economics at the University of Rome was swiftly
followed by a fellowship for advanced study in economic and monetary disciplines
in the prestigious research department at the central bank. He then studied at
MIT and in 1963, when he returned from the US, was set to work, together with
Guido Rey, on the first version of the Italian econometric model that still
guides the central bank in its economic policies. In 1966 the bank engaged top
economist Franco Modigliani, who had been doing research with Fazio at MIT, as a
consultant for the model. Says Fazio: "The model continues to provide a valid
logical framework for analyzing reality and a fundamental tool in preparing the
ground for economic policy decisions."

<P> Fazio is a precise man, given to careful analysis. He made the most recent
cut in Italian interest rates in July after concluding with reasonable certainty
that December's annual average inflation target of 3% would be met.

<P> Fazio is a dedicated family man who spends his summers in the tiny medieval
city of Alvito, high in the Apennines, in the house where he was born.

<H4> <B>CENTRAL BANKER OF THE YEAR</B> </H4> <H4> <B> </B> </H4> <H2> <B>Fazio:
unfazed and very independent</B> </H2> <H3> <B>Antonio Fazio, governor of the
Banca d'Italia since May 1993, has steered the Italian economy towards low
inflation and further enhanced the central bank's reputation for
independence.</B> </H3> <P> <B>Fazio: everyone must share in economic
progress.</B>

<H2> <B>Fazio: "Not satisfied with temporary measures"</B> </H2> <P> <B>You have
made considerable strides in bringing inflation down, but how do you expect to
narrow differentials with Germany from current levels?</B>

<P> Average inflation, as measured by increases in consumer prices, was 5.4% in
1995 and will be just below 4% this year. The Bank of Italy has set an objective
of bringing inflation below 3% in 1997. As a consequence there will certainly be
a narrowing of inflation differentials with other European countries.

<P> <B>Do you believe you have broken the back of inflationary expectations in
Italy?</B>

<P> In the early months of 1995 inflationary expectations were worsening
dramatically. They have since improved, as reflected in current surveys and
government bond yields. For 10-year government bonds the differential with
respect to comparable German bonds was more than 500 basis points last year, and
reached 660bp. It is now around 320bp, and it has been down further.

<P> We have not yet "broken the back" of inflation: the expected values of price
increases are still too high. The point I am insisting on is that we have to
reject the habit of thinking that prices can only rise; there are prices that can
fall, in absolute terms, not just in terms of a reduction in their rate of
increase. In July, Italy's indices of consumer prices actually fell for the first
time in 28 years. Let us hope for the future.

<P> <B>Some players have been surprised by the firmness you have shown in
controlling inflation. Do you see the need to maintain tight money in order to
contain inflation as unfavourable to maintaining high employment and social
equity?</B>

<P> A stable currency is a prerequisite for orderly economic life and sound
development. It's Italy's experience: price stability and healthy public finances
were conducive to strong growth and employment in the 1950s and for most of the
1960s.

<P> <B>What measures would you like to see taken in order to reduce Italy's
structural budget deficit?</B>

<P> There has been a substantial improvement in our public finances over the last
few years. What is needed, generally speaking, is a structural and hence lasting
equilibrium of the public finances. Investors will not be satisfied with
temporary measures.

<P> Measures to reduce waste and misallocation of resources are needed in several
fields. Public health services are a prime candidate. Another field is tax
collection. Tax evasion is equal to several percentage points of GDP. In the
pension system, imbalances can be quite significant in the long run. The system
has just been comprehensively reformed, but it will be necessary to tighten some
parameters in the near future. The expansion of the wage bill of the public
sector must continue to be marked by the same moderation as it has shown over the
last few years.

<P> More generally, as regards the welfare state, there is a need for a revision
which will eliminate widespread inefficiencies, together with certain excessive
benefits for the high-income brackets. The benefits will have to be focused on
the lower income brackets.

<P> <B>You appear less concerned with maintaining a high profile and creating an
image for yourself than did Lamberto Dini when he was at the central bank. Is
this a deliberate policy?</B>

<P> Deeply rooted in my education is a concern for "being" rather than
"appearing". I worked very closely with Lamberto Dini for several years at the
Bank of Italy. In 1994 he moved on to become treasury minister, and then prime
minister. I have great regard for him, both as an economist, especially in
international matters, and as a politician.

<P> <B>Is the lira fairly valued?</B>

<P> Yes. The Italian economy is highly competitive at present, as shown by the
excellent performance of the balance of payments on current account. In order to
remain competitive, Italian firms will have to rely on cost reductions,
efficiency gains and product quality, not on currency depreciation.

<P> <B>You have said that you want to encourage competition and consolidation in
banking: how will these divergent goals be achieved?</B>

<P> The two goals are not ultimately divergent, especially if banks work actively
to reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance the quality of its products and
services.

<P> <B>How do you expect to make the domestic financial industry more competitive
in world markets?</B>

<P> Generally speaking, the Italian banking system is reasonably well established
and efficient in the more traditional markets. But Italy's banks will have to
reduce costs, especially labour costs, and become more innovative and efficient
in the supply of services, in order to remain competitive with foreign banks and
other intermediaries. The supply of long-term finance is still insufficiently
developed.

<H2> <B>The regional winners</B> </H2> <P> <B>BEST ASIAN FINANCE MINISTER</B>

<H2> <B>Roberto <BR> De Ocampo, Philippines</B> </H2> <P> Over the past year,
Roberto De Ocampo has more than vindicated his award of 1995's <I>Euromoney</I>
Finance Minister of the Year. He goes from strength to strength, as part of a
team under President Fidel Ramos that has brought the Philippines from being the
sick man of Asia to become one of its star performers.

<P> The 50-year-old De Ocampo has consolidated his position as secretary of
finance since he took control in 1994, and has won the respect of the
international markets. The economy is growing fast: GDP climbed at an annual rate
of 7.1% in the first half of this year, buoyed by exports which grew 20%. In its
fifth consecutive year of economic growth, the country is now on course to become
the fastest-growing economy in the Asean region. Even so, growth appears to be
sustainable and, in contrast to previous boom-and-bust cycles, exports rather
than consumption are driving the economy. Inflation is under control, slowing to
single digits in August, and the fiscal deficit has been held in check as
discretionary spending has been cut.

<P> This has helped put the Philippines in a position to gain investment-grade
sovereign credit ratings quite soon &#173; already the country has been upgraded
to BB- from BB by Standard &amp; Poor's and to Ba2 from Ba3 by Moody's last year.

<P> De Ocampo had almost nine years' experience working at the World Bank, and
six years at the Development Bank of the Philippines, rising to chairman. These
posts have given him the ability to handle negotiations with international
organizations very deftly. The Philippines' debt service ratios have improved
dramatically under De Ocampo's tenure, falling to 118% in 1995 from 195% in 1991.
De Ocampo has also taken a leading role in the banking liberalization process
over the past two years. Tax reform is also under way, although the latest
changes are currently log-jammed in congress.

<P> <B>BEST ASIAN CENTRAL BANKER</B>

<H2> <B>Joseph Yam,<BR> Hong Kong</B> </H2> <P> Joseph Yam, chief executive of
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), the <I>de facto</I> central bank, has
built up an institution that will not fade away after the colony is handed over
to China in 1997. Moreover, he has developed the local capital markets and
maintained a stable currency.

<P> What makes Yam so special is that he has achieved all this while preserving
the open approval and partnership of the People's Republic of China, a high
degree of independence, and the confidence of international and local markets.

<P> Yam was educated as a statistician and economist at the University of Hong
Kong, and rapidly worked his way up through the civil service to become deputy
secretary for monetary affairs &#173; the first local Chinese in that post, which
was traditionally reserved for a Bank of England secondee.

<P> This was only one of a long line of firsts. In 1991 he became the first
director of the office of the Exchange Fund, the body set up to manage the
government's financial assets. In April 1993 he became the first head of the new
central monetary authority, the HKMA.

<P> Yam has expanded the mandate of the HKMA beyond its original aim of
maintaining sound monetary policy. He has enhanced banking supervision and
developed the market's infrastructure. Yam's team has set up a discount window
and a settlement system for bonds. The HKMA also has ambitious plans to establish
a mortgage corporation to help develop mortgage-backed securities.

<P> The maturing of Hong Kong's fixed-income markets is in part down to Yam's
zeal. He has taken the debt markets from being little more than a tool for
exercising monetary policy to a market with a proper yield curve.

<P> Yam is a perceptive political mover, as illustrated by his ability to involve
Beijing in all these developments. For example, recently he widened the
eligibility requirement for the discount window to include ratings by IBCA and
JBRI. This allowed Chinese banks such as the Bank of China to qualify.

<P> Because the 48-year-old central banker is respected both by the PRC and
international markets, he is even being spoken of as a long-shot to become Hong
Kong's first chief executive after the handover.

<P> <B>BEST ARAB FINANCE MINISTER</B>

<H2> <B>Ibrahim <BR> Abdul-Karim, Bahrain</B> </H2> <P> This year Ibrahim
Abdul-Karim, minister of finance and national economy in Bahrain, celebrates 20
years in office. This makes the 55-year-old minister probably the longest-serving
finance minister in the world. During his tenure, Bahrain has witnessed
unprecedented changes as the economy has been opened up. In 1989 the Bahrain
Stock Exchange (BSE) was launched as part of a long-term strategy to establish
Manama, the capital, as a financial centre for the region.

<P> But it has been a tough task to develop the economy: the country has a
limited manufacturing base, rapid population growth, few natural resources, and
now produces only around 40,000 barrels of oil a day.

<P> Nonetheless, Abdul-Karim has been behind many of the initiatives to develop
equity markets, and to promote the country as an offshore financial centre and a
tourist destination.

<P> Most recently, Bahrain has signed cross-listing initiatives with Jordan and
the Oman securities market in a bid to lift the performance of the BSE. In
addition to his role of finance minister, Abdul-Karim is deputy chairman of the
central bank, the Bahrain Monetary Agency, and also chairman of Gulf
International Bank.

<P> <B>BEST ARAB CENTRAL BANKER</B>

<H2> <B>Riad Salameh, Lebanon</B> </H2> <P> Two things remained constant during
Lebanon's decade-long civil war: wine from the Bekaa valley, and the central
bank, Banque du Liban (BDL), which remained open for business throughout. In the
country's redevelopment since the war ended, the BDL has helped to build
stability and introduce innovations.

<P> Three years into his term, Riad Salameh &#173; who, at 42, was the bank's
youngest-ever governor &#173; has laid the foundations for a sound financial
recovery. The former Merrill Lynch employee has already achieved much. Salameh
implemented a policy to rebuild the external value of the Lebanese pound. The
success of this is demonstrated by the currency's 8.5% appreciation between the
end of 1993 and the end of 1995, the first time for over 10 years that it has not
been depreciating. The stability of the pound has been bolstered in part by the
BDL's management of its foreign exchange reserves and its canny intervention
policy to defend the currency. All this has helped to create an environment
attractive to foreign investment.

<P> Managing economic growth and capital inflows has its stresses and, as the
economy makes its first steps towards growth, Salameh has risen to the challenge
of preventing money flows becoming a problem.

<P> Salameh has also been at the forefront of cultivating the country's nascent
capital markets, including a secondary market in Lebanese treasury bills. He has
been the driving force behind developing up-to-date financial legislation.

<P> <B>BEST EASTERN EUROPEAN <BR> FINANCE MINISTER</B>

<H2> <B>Grzegorz Kolodko, Poland </B> </H2> <P> Opinions on Grzegorz Kolodko,
Poland's forthright deputy prime minister and minister of finance, vary between
anxiety and respect. But most players agree on one thing: Kolodko has vision.

<P> A startling number of finance ministers have passed in and out of the doors
of 12 Swietokrzyska Street over the past six years, and Kolodko's own tenure is
by no means secure. But he has held office tenaciously since April 1994, and his
strategy gives the impression that, unlike some of his predecessors, he carefully
thinks through the long-term consequences of his decisions.

<P> Poland 2000, Kolodko's plan for the country's future, has been dismissed by
some as a sketchbook of ideas with few concrete strategies for putting them into
effect. But many of its ideas will be realized, marking a turnaround in the way
the economy is analyzed. Until Kolodko came, medium-term planning was anathema to
Polish policy-makers. He is a non-party technocrat loosely aligned with prime
minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz's Democratic Left Alliance (SLD). That gives him
the advantage of not being tied to one political party. But he is still acutely
aware of political consequences. "He senses where the political wind blows from
and gets the best of it," says one fund manager. "And he knows when to duck if
the wind becomes a hurricane." Earlier this year Kolodko came under fire when he
tried to stop budget concessions which allowed taxpayers to claim rebates for
gifts.

<P> Kolodko has been criticized for being too assured and assertive. But as one
senior international agency official says: "It's the kind of job where you don't
have an alternative. If you start off weak, you end up weaker."

<P> Kolodko's anti-inflation stance has been vindicated. "When inflation was over
30% last year he was the only one who insisted it could be below 20% this year.
Everybody laughed at him," says the agency representative. In the year to June,
inflation eased below 20% to 19.5%. "He has tough, optimistic and ambitious
targets and pushes hard for them."

<P> Kolodko has taken a confrontational approach to the head of the central bank,
Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, but they are now cooperating in the battle with
inflation. Kolodko could be in line to become president of the bank if pressures
from the fragile coalition mean he is ousted from the finance ministry when the
ministries are reorganized this autumn.

<P> Kolodko was educated at the Warsaw School of Economics. He also worked as
visiting professor to the University of Illinois on a Fulbright fellowship.

<P> <B>BEST EASTERN EUROPEAN<BR> CENTRAL BANKER</B>

<H2> <B>Gyorgy Suranyi, Hungary</B> </H2> <P> Gyorgy Suranyi's second term as
president of the National Bank of Hungary has been no easier than his first but,
then again, it has been no less effective.

<P> During his first term, between mid-1990 and the end of 1991, Suranyi drafted
part of the act that gave the central bank independence. But his tenure came to
an abrupt end partly because the then prime minister, Jozsef Antall, thought
Suranyi was taking his independence too far.

<P> Suranyi, Hungary's leading macroeconomist, former World Bank consultant and
the darling of international investors, went to head the private-sector
Central-European International Bank.

<P> In March 1995 prime minister Gyula Horn's socialist coalition brought Suranyi
back to the central bank and gave him the mandate to introduce a radical economic
stabilization programme. In a bid to put the country's finances in order,
Suranyi, with the help of his close friend Lajos Bokros, the minister of finance,
sliced government spending, imposed import duties, and devalued the forint,
putting it on a crawling peg programme.

<P> These efforts led to a $387 million standby credit from the IMF. This was
signed after Bokros quit in February when his proposed social spending cuts were
quashed. His resignation worried the markets, especially since the standby
specified that the social security deficit should be cut to Ft17.8 billion. On
current trends the National Bank of Hungary expects it to grow to more than Ft70
billion this year. However, the ministry of finance forecasts that the target for
the general government budget deficit of 4% of GDP will be met.

<P> Many were worried that Suranyi would not have the same effective relationship
with the new minister of finance, Peter Medgyessy. However, there appears to have
been no confrontation so far. "I'm absolutely convinced that he and Medgyessy
have a good working relationship; I don't think they are fighting behind the
scenes," says one of Suranyi's former colleagues. "And, anyway, Bokros and
Suranyi didn't agree on absolutely everything."

<P> Suranyi's efforts are likely to win Hungary an upgrade to investment-grade
rating by international agencies very soon. IBCA, the London-based ratings
agency, has already taken the first step. He is highly regarded by the markets
and is well known at home as an honest broker. "He's a person who just shouldn't
be hated," says a colleague. "The way he accepts your opinion and explains his
own, without forcing it or being aggressive, is a very rare thing."

<P> Because Suranyi has been criticized by opposition politicians for pushing his
independence too far and taking the side of international agencies, he has tried
to keep out of the limelight. "He has a good sense of politics, and that means
keeping away from high-profile fighting with politicians," says a local
economist.

<P> <B>BEST AFRICAN FINANCE MINISTER</B>

<H2> <B>Mohamed Kabbaj, Morocco</B> </H2> <P> Mohamed Kabbaj has played a key
part in opening Morocco's capital markets and in the country's increasing
economic success.

<P> The Moroccan finance minister has a high-level French education and a
technocratic background as equipment minister, giving him a firm grounding in
tackling complicated challenges &#173; and reforming the Moroccan economy is
certainly one.

<P> Kabbaj has needed to draw on all his skills to deal with Morocco's large debt
burden and the effects of last year's disastrous drought. He has also had to make
some domestically unpopular budget cuts.

<P> One of Kabbaj's main contributions has been to maintain tight debt management
and to avoid borrowing excessively abroad. He has also been trying to establish
as broad a refinancing structure as possible for Morocco's $25 billion or so in
outstanding debt that has mounted since the 1970s.

<P> Kabbaj master-minded the country's successful Eurofranc issue, which brought
the country to the international bond market for the first time. He has also
worked behind the scenes to accelerate the privatization process and to
liberalize key sectors, fostering Morocco's image as one of the most
forward-looking economies in Africa.

<P> Kabbaj's future plans? Some observers believe he may want to set up his own
centre-right party oriented toward market reforms.

<H4> <B>BEST AFRICA CENTRAL BANKER</B> </H4> <H2> <B>Idris Rashidi, Tanzania</B>
</H2> <P> Idris Rashidi has been governor of the central bank of Tanzania since
1993 and he has made things happen, despite the fact that the country labours
under a debt-to-exports ratio of 745%. He has been instrumental in developing the
country's fledgling capital markets, and has worked with banks to develop a money
market, a flexible foreign exchange market, a treasury bill market and the
preconditions for opening a stock exchange.

<P> Rashidi is renowned for his forthright attitude, decisive character and
openness in explaining to the public the actions of the central bank. When
Meridien Bank collapsed in 1995, Rashidi acted swiftly to contain the negative
effects on confidence for other banks.

<P> Rashidi has managed to bring down inflation, from 35% in 1994 to 27% last
year. This year's figure is likely to be 20%. Over the past few years the
external value of the shilling has been kept relatively stable in real terms. The
central bank does not have much ammunition to guard the value of the currency (in
the first quarter of 1996 reserves of $227 million were enough to cover only 1.6
months of imports), but it does effectively intervene in the interbank market to
smooth adjustments.

<P> <B>BEST EUROPEAN FINANCE MINISTER</B>

<H2> <B>Mogens Lykke Toft, Denmark</B> </H2> <P> Nicknamed "the king of Denmark"
by some civil servants, Mogens Lykke Toft, finance minister since January 1993,
has done an effective job, given the political constraints on him.

<P> Lykke Toft is a shrewd political player. It was he who helped install Poul
Nyrup Rasmussen as prime minister and head of the Social Democrat governing
coalition. Together the two have reduced the old-style political influence of the
traditional left of the party. Working within the limits of the political system,
Lykke Toft helped kick-start the economy with a tax-reform package which, over
the past three years, has revived consumer spending. Unemployment has dropped
since then from 12.5% to 8.7%. Public finances have been kept in order and public
deficit is only 1.5% of GDP. Some labour-market reforms are being undertaken to
reduce welfare expenditure. However, wage pressures on consumer price inflation
are likely to cause the retail price index to accelerate from its 2.3% annual
growth in July.

<P> Lykke Toft, an economist educated at the University of Copenhagen is
privately in favour of more radical reforms, but has a realistic vision of what
can be achieved.

<H4> <B>BEST LATIN FINANCE MINISTER</B> </H4> <H2> <B>Guillermo Ortiz, Mexico</B>
</H2> <P> In the midst of Mexico's peso crisis, Guillermo Ortiz returned to the
Hacienda, Mexico's finance ministry, this time as finance minister. It was
Christmas Eve 1994.

<P> Regaining Mexico's financial credibility has been the toughest task for
Ortiz. His strategy was criticized at the beginning but he stuck to it and, to a
large extent, has been rewarded by the turnaround in Mexico's economic fortunes.

<P> Ortiz, a Stanford economics PhD, had been number two to finance minister
Pedro Aspe in the administration of Carlos Salinas, when he made it clear then he
wanted to devalue the peso. When the Salinas administration gave way to that of
Ernesto Zedillo in November 1994 and Jaime Serra Puche won the top job in finance
ministry, Ortiz was sidelined to the ministry of commerce and transport. By the
time he returned to the finance ministry, the team there was a new one.

<P> But Ortiz knew how the machine functioned and had a good relations with the
central bank and with investors. It was these investors who helped Ortiz
revitalize international confidence after the peso crisis. He increased the flow
of information, setting up frequent meetings with investors and analysts.

<P> There were disputes early on between Ortiz and central bank governor Miguel
Mancera over the strategy for growing the economy without triggering inflation.
But they have subsided as Ortiz's strategy began to reap rewards in terms of
stabilization and growth.

<P> The short-term obligations of Mexico which helped precipitate the crisis
&#173; namely the need to repay $29 billion in treasury bonds &#173; were covered
by a rescue package from the US and the IMF. Ortiz has been able to reshape the
country's liabilities to avoid a bunching of its obligations. This has given him
a measure of flexibility. Recently the government issued $6 billion floating-rate
note in the international markets to prepay the US (on top of an earlier $700
million prepayment). It has also made a prepayment of $1 billion to the IMF.

<P> Ortiz also played a crucial role in rescuing the banking system during and
after the crisis. He took the best long-term strategy possible by spreading costs
over time, opening the system to foreign capital, and subsidizing rates for
debtors.

<H4> <B>BEST LATIN CENTRAL BANKER</B> </H4> <H2> <B>Augusto De La Torre,
Ecuador</B> </H2> <P> Augusto De La Torre, governor of the Banco Central del
Ecuador, has been one of the chief designers of the country's stabilization
programme over the past four years. He is destined to remain a force for
stability in the new populist administration of president Abdala Bucaram.

<P> De La Torre's six years as an economist with the IMF have helped him to
weather the many political and economic storms which have hit Ecuador over the
past three years.

<P> "De La Torre gets high marks overall," says a New York-based analyst. "Much
of the macro programme's stability over the past two years can be attributed to
his technical experience and ability to keep the programme afloat with the IMF.
He does a decent job with the independence given."

<P> Some say it is a tough, even impossible, task to satisfy all four objectives
of the central bank's charter: price and foreign exchange stability, banking
system health and economic growth. The governor has had a measure of success on
the first objective during his term, which began in August 1993. He has
restrained inflation, bringing it down from an annual rate of 60% at the end of
1992 to 23.3% in the year to July 1996.

<P> In early September, De La Torre was confirmed as central bank governor by the
new administration. Some reports, however, suggest that he tried to resign but
his resignation was not accepted.

<H4> <B>WORST FINANCE MINISTER </B> </H4> <H2> <B>Matos Azocar, Venezuela</B>
</H2> <P> Who took the tough decisions that have got Venezuela's economy back on
track: eliminating petrol subsidies, stabilizing the bolivar, arranging a $1.4
billion loan from the IMF and assuaging the fears of international investors?

<P> The answer is Teodoro Petkoff, a former left-wing guerrilla who spent part of
the 1960s and 1970s in jail and is now the leading salesman for Venezuela's
successful reform programme, both abroad and at home.

<P> But he's not finance minister: he's Venezuela's minister of planning.

<P> Petkoff has stepped in do the work of the country's real finance minister,
Matos Azocar, even though Azocar remains in office.

<P> Says a US-based Latin American economist: "Azocar should be
<I>Euromoney</I>'s worst finance minister. He's responsible for not having
undertaken reforms sooner."

<P> When Azocar came into office in mid-1994, he made presentations to investors
promising that he would liberalize Venezuela's foreign exchange and price
controls. At the time, Venezuela's economy was in a mess: it suffered from high
inflation, negative real interest rates, and foreign exchange controls which
distorted the market.

<P> But for a year Azocar did nothing. His ineffectiveness was so great that in
the spring of 1995 Congress voted to censure him. He survived only because he had
President Rafael Caldera's ear.

<P> Comments another economist: "The accolade [of worst finance minister] is well
deserved. From the beginning of his tenure in office, Azocar played a role in the
formulation of Venezuela's policy. Make of that what you will." The implication
is that the lack of progress in economic reform during 1994 and the first half of
1995 should be blamed on Azocar.

<P> In mid-1995 Petkoff was appointed planning minister and began to take
responsibility for the important negotiations with the IMF. Azocar all but
disappeared from view.

<P> Since April, the country has seen a dramatic reduction in inflation, and is
beginning to benefit from the realistic stabilization programme and the freeing
of exchange and price controls. But Azocar can take little of the credit,
although he does now appear to support Petkoff's policies. However, since very
little happens in Venezuela without president Caldera's say-so, perhaps Azocar
should not be blamed for all the previous mistakes. 

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-75</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B048-66</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.06/em.96.06.8.html 194.217.137.48 19970114132043 text/html 17357
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:19:48 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 12:35:47 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 17122
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00001500 Derivatives OTC -->
<!--00005700 Mexico -->
<!--00001700 Emerging Markets -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
June 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H3>EMERGING MARKETS </H3>
<H2>Cautious investors seek safety </H2>
<H4>Derivatives are becoming an essential component of corporate finance
in developing economies. But risk management rather than position-taking
is their rationale, and bankers have changed their marketing pitch to take
account of the new mood. Mariana Crespo reports </H4>
The Mexican meltdown in December 1994 was a major disaster for foreign companies
and fund managers with investments in the country, and a strong reminder
of the investment risks of emerging markets. But increased risk awareness,
paradoxically, did not help the nascent derivatives market that had been
flourishing in Mexico for a few years before the peso devaluation. Rather,
it went backwards, dragging down the derivatives markets of other emerging
markets in the process. <BR>
<BR>
In the aftermath of the devaluation, panicky investors fled to safer havens
as volatility increased and liquidity dried up in the underlying stocks
of these markets. In the year and a half since then, improved fundamentals
in Mexico and the other emerging markets have lured them back. Not only
is there is a renewal of interest in the equity and fixed-income instruments
in these markets, derivatives are also making a comeback. <BR>
<BR>
Having learnt from the havoc that derivatives caused - not only in
Mexico but in more developed markets - investors are now considerably
wiser and more cautious, and it has become much harder for margin-hungry
banks to make their pitch to sell these profitable products. <BR>
<BR>
From Chile to Singapore, 90% of derivatives markets are still in the hands
of banks which structure products for their clients. There have been some
attempts by exchanges in the US and in the individual countries to launch
listed derivatives: for example, the recent listing by the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange of Brady bond futures and option index contracts, and its plan
to list the popular IPC index of the Mexican Stock Exchange. But, by and
large, these efforts have not yet taken off. The exception is the Bolsa
de Mercadorias e Futuros (BMF) in Brazil, which is the world's third most
liquid futures exchange and often trades up to 30,000 contracts a day. <BR>
<BR>
Over-the-counter products have obvious advantages to buyers since they enable
them to tailor the amounts and dates of derivatives products to their contracts.
Bankers say that because of this, exchange-traded derivatives do not compete
with the products they offer but often complement them. &quot;We cater for
customers hedging their exposure or asset allocation in a particular country
or region,&quot; says Richard Royden, managing director of global derivatives
at James Capel in New York. <BR>
<BR>
The most commonly used products in the emerging markets include Brady bond
options, structured notes, total-return swaps, warrants, equity-linked notes,
as well as more complex instruments such as cross-currency interest rate
swaps, convertibility options and cashflow currency hedging. <BR>
<BR>
Perhaps because they are in the business of financial risk, the end-users
of these products are predominantly sovereign entities and US, European,
Asian and Latin American financial institutions, investment funds and hedge
funds that feel more comfortable with derivatives than do corporate treasuries.
But companies in the emerging markets are slowly but surely joining the
game. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Most of the CFOs and treasurers of these companies have been educated
in the US and they definitely have the technical skills to understand these
products,&quot; says Eric Van Laer, vice-president and head of equity derivatives
marketing for Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais in New York. &quot;But they don't have
as much experience as the treasurer of a company in the US who has been
using these products for the past 10 years.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Protection instead of exposure</B> <BR>
<BR>
True, the level of sophistication of the local treasuries varies from country
to country and, in many cases, it just boils down to specific companies.
But, in particular, those local companies that have liabilities and profits
in more than one currency, as well as multi-national corporations establishing
operations in the region, are increasingly participating in the derivatives
market. <BR>
<BR>
The reasons for buying derivatives have changed. Because of the Mexican
peso crisis and the number of derivatives failures since 1994, which caused
chaos among some Asian companies and brought about a spate of lawsuits against
banks, most investors now using derivatives in the emerging markets are
seeking protection rather than exposure. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Whereas before investors were more willing to take a position, whether
it was on the yield curve or in the currency, now the trend has shifted,
not only because of some of the issues that surfaced in those local markets,
but also because of the noise in the background in the US,&quot; argues
Elizabeth Stanners, vice-president and manager of the financial engineering
risk department at the Bank of America in San Francisco. <BR>
<BR>
Not surprisingly, going with the flow, bankers in Asia and Latin America
have changed their marketing strategies and now stress the risk-management
benefits of derivatives rather than their ability to generate high returns.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;You see a lot of people selling calls against portfolios or using
option spreads to hedge positions by buying puts and selling calls,&quot;
says Henry Urquidi, vice-president of Lehman Brothers in Miami. &quot;Before
the devaluation, people in Latin America used derivatives a lot for plain
leverage since they had a lot of money to play with, but that money is no
longer there so when they use derivatives it's much more for hedging purposes.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
In other cases, using a derivative can make a transaction more efficient
and lower the costs, which in the emerging markets tend to be quite high,
argues Varun Gosain, head of fixed-income trading in emerging markets at
Banque Paribas in New York. <BR>
<BR>
For an investor wanting to take a position in a specific emerging market,
buying a derivative often has clear advantages over buying the underlying
asset, say the experts. Equity swaps, for example, are usually a cheaper
way to invest than buying or selling the physical stocks directly. Dealers
may have access to natural counterparties and investors save on settlement
costs, stamp taxes and other local-market transaction costs. Or consider
the advantages of buying a Brady bond option over a Brady bond, says Andrew
Kellerman, vice-president and chief options dealer for emerging markets
derivatives at Bank of Boston. &quot;On a vanilla instrument, you buy the
bond 80 cents on the dollar and a 90-day call option for two points. So
you give away two points on the upside but you have only two points of downside.
Simply speaking, that's what a derivative should offer you,&quot; argues
Kellerman. <BR>
<BR>
One area perhaps most overlooked has been the use of derivative products
to increase the availability and reduce the cost of capital for borrowing
in these markets. For this purpose, the experts say that currency swaps
are the product of choice for lowering borrowing costs. It is estimated,
for instance, that Latin American borrowers last year alone swapped about
40% of their non-dollar debt into another currency, which enabled them to
reduce funding costs without taking incremental currency exposure. <BR>
<BR>
In terms of regional focus, while in Latin America the Brady bond option
market has flourished, Asian markets typically make more use of equity derivatives
and shorter-term instruments. Since the various governments in Asia tend
to have better credit and not as much debt outstanding, that market is not
as liquid and the yields are therefore not as attractive. <BR>
<BR>
In addition, Asian derivative users have some common features. Most currencies
in the region have some strong links with the US dollar. The Hong Kong dollar
is pegged directly to the US dollar, while the value of the Thai baht is
calculated according to a basket of currencies of which the dollar makes
up about 75%. The fact that the US dollar is the base currency for most
Asian corporates means that most of the derivatives transactions entered
into by Asian companies are dollar-related. On the other hand, with exports
growing, currency swaps and forwards are becoming increasingly widespread.
Most trade-related deals tend to be plain-vanilla swaps or forwards that
allow companies to swap their currencies into dollars or Deutschmarks. <BR>
<BR>
In general, emerging market experts say the derivatives designed for these
markets are much like those used in more developed markets, with added special
characteristics that can help investors weather the inherent on-the-ground
risks. These include limited local financing at certain maturities, restrictions
on foreign investment and repatriation of corporate profits, and the possibility
that the deal may not be completed because of regulatory changes or some
political or economic upheaval. <BR>
<BR>
This added risk is usually factored into the pricing. &quot;One of the main
issues with our emerging market clients is that we have an exposure both
to the counterparty and the country,&quot; says Reza Ali, vice-president
of emerging markets derivatives at UBS Securities in New York. &quot;So
a lot of the dealers on the Street take this into account when they price
any sort of derivative.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
For the most part, however, every bank has its own proprietary model that
allows it to price the different products in a fairly efficient manner,
although, says Yves Leysen, head of derivatives marketing for the Americas
at CSFP Capital in New York, in the emerging markets every transaction is
different and has its own set of risk and credit characteristics that come
into play when calculating the price. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Spreading the risk</B> <BR>
<BR>
Although the price of derivatives has come down quite a bit, their cost
remains a major disincentive for many companies. In very illiquid currencies,
for instance, interest rate spreads - from which forward rates are
calculated - can reach 10% on either side of the central rate. <BR>
<BR>
Of course, from the banks' perspective, this is a fair price since there
are few alternative counterparties onto which a bank can lay off risk if
a contract is unwound early. Some resort to exchange-traded products to
hedge the exposure arising from the over-the-counter positions, but the
frequent lack of liquidity in these markets means that this is not always
a possibility. <BR>
<BR>
In other cases, the financial institutions will ask for some sort of guarantee,
which could be in the form of collateral, some margin calls or a cash settlement.
&quot;It really depends on the strategy of the bank and how much risk it
is willing to take,&quot; says Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais' Van Laer. On the
other hand, requiring too many guarantees from a prospective client may
scare away the business. &quot;If you go to a Latin American customer and
you tell him he's got to put up collateral because you can't live with the
risk, that's not an extremely popular way of doing business,&quot; says
Van Laer. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;You've also got to consider that the majority of investors are in
these markets for the yield,&quot; says Wesley Davis, vice-president of
emerging markets derivatives at Chase Manhattan in New York. &quot;So they
wouldn't be in them if they didn't recognize the risks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Be that as it may, although everybody agrees that risk comes with the territory,
the problems with derivatives along the way have in many instances made
banks a lot more careful about who they do business with. In fact, a movement
towards collaterized transactions is slowly growing, points out UBS's Ali.
<BR>
<BR>
So far the wide spreads that are common with emerging markets derivatives,
especially in Latin America, have made the business extremely lucrative
for financial institutions. Should the market grow and the increased liquidity
force spreads down, some wonder whether it would cease to be as profitable
for the players in this market. <BR>
<BR>
But the banks are not fretting. &quot;I think we would rather see increased
volumes with tighter spreads than very little volume with big spreads,&quot;
says Lehman's Urquidi. And if the volume of business were to grow, there
would be additional benefits for both the banks and their clients. &quot;It
would cost you much less to get out of a position,&quot; says Bank of Boston's
Kellerman. <BR>
<BR>
One of the factors that has until now constrained the growth of the derivatives
markets in the developing economies has been the rules and regulations that
are often established locally by central banks and exchanges. In fact, many
countries keep a strict control on the purchase and sale of currency-related
products in order to prevent capital flows from causing inflation. Korean
companies, for example, must submit relevant trade documents to the ministry
of finance before being allowed to enter into swaps over $3 million. The
Latin American markets, on the other hand, have not placed too many limitations
on the trading of these products - with the exception of Brazil, where
last August the local authorities decided to prohibit the trading of equity
derivatives by foreigners since this was causing inflationary pressures
in a high interest rate environment. <BR>
<BR>
Despite these restrictions, most market participants agree that derivatives
will continue to grow as these markets become more stable and mature. Although
the learning curve has been rocky and steep, it seems now that corporates
in the emerging markets have learnt the harsh lesson that you need to understand
the risks before doing derivatives. Emerging market specialists argue that
in the longer term derivatives are certain to become a vital component of
corporate finance in the developing economies. <BR>
<BR>
As their export business grows, the use of currency options will surely
increase among companies looking for more flexible ways of hedging currency
risks, while the use of put options on bonds will offer them the chance
of lowering borrowing costs. In the end the success and safety of these
transactions will largely depend on the existence of adequate controls from
local regulators and the internal safeguards of companies and financial
institutions.  <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-76</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B025-172</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.11/em.96.11.1.html 194.217.137.48 19970114141232 text/html 49587
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:11:23 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 17:36:40 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 49376
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: Cover story
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD><TITLE>Cover story</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>

<P>

<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: November 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
November 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra5.gif" alt="Cover Story">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3> COVER STORY </H3>


<H2>
<B>The man who won't quit centre stage</B> </H2>

<H4>
<B>Olivetti strongman Carlo De Benedetti is clinging to power at the company he has dominated for 17 years. Stripped of all executive titles and controlling only a 15% stake, he remains very much in charge. UK and American fund managers who thought the Italian corporate was a turnround stock with new go-ahead management have been rudely shocked. The share price has halved as bad news has heaped up. They now realize that De Benedetti doesn't care how low the stock goes as long as he wins the fight against them. As they slug it out, foreign investment in Italy suffers. Peter Lee reports</B>
</H4>
<P>
On August 27, worried representatives of seven UK fund managers met at the London offices of Baring Asset Management at 155 Bishopsgate. They had all bought sizeable chunks of Olivetti stock at the start of the year &#173; most in an internationally syndicated rights issue &#173; paying around L1,000 ($0.65) a share. In total they held a 25% stake. They had believed that a turnround at the troubled Italian information technology group would soon boost its share price, which had fallen from nearer L3,000 at the start of the 1990s. They had been bitterly disappointed.

<P>
Instead of turnround, the company had delivered profit warnings and growing management turmoil. The shares were down to L800. Shareholders were now cursing themselves for buying Olivetti stock and privately complaining that they had been misled at the time of the January 1996 rights issue. 

<P>
"It was not so much a question of having being fed inaccurate information in the rights-issue prospectus, which nobody really read anyway because they are always full of legal gobbledygook," says one fund manager who attended the meeting. "It was the enthusiasm of investment banking analysts and the company for the turnround story which was misleading."

<P>
At the meeting were representatives of Baring itself, the largest single foreign shareholder in Olivetti with a stake rumoured to be as high as 5%; Nomura Capital Management, which had initiated the meeting by contacting other worried shareholders; Old Mutual; Henderson; Robert Fleming Asset Management and one or two others. At the last minute, fund managers from Phillips &amp; Drew Fund Managers were unable to attend. But with 2% of Olivetti's shares, they were there in spirit.

<P>
The meeting lasted an hour and a half. Fund managers speculated about the departure of Corrado Passera &#173; former head of Olivetti's troubled personal computer (PC) division and a key man in pitching the turnround story at the time of the rights issues; about the likely strategy of new Olivetti CEO Francesco Caio; and the role of Carlo De Benedetti, the dominant figure at Olivetti for 17 years. On the surface De Benedetti appeared to be taking a back seat to Caio, but deeper analysis showed him to be retaining a Machiavellian influence. 

<P>
The fund managers also talked about how Olivetti might realize some value from joint-venture mobile-telecoms company Omnitel, Olivetti's most promising business and the reason why most had bought shares. Naively, some foreign fund managers may have assumed they could force the company to spin off Omnitel to them. They knew there were rules against this. The Italian government had imposed restrictions on ownership changes when it granted Omnitel a valuable operating licence in 1995. Maybe foreign investors thought these rules might be waived to protect Omnitel against growing chaos at Olivetti. 

<P>
"There were various views about what should be done ranging from the extreme to the moderate," says one person present at the London meeting. The angrier shareholders half-joked about taking out a contract on De Benedetti's life. In the end, they settled for having Baring request Olivetti senior management to meet them to provide some answers. They would have to wait until October for this, by which time Olivetti had slipped even further into financial and managerial chaos.

<P>
The significance of owners of 25% of Olivetti's stock meeting together could not have been lost on the company's board. That's the number of votes required to summon an extraordinary general meeting. Each fund manager knew that they were on the brink of something quite unprecedented. Olivetti is unique among large Italian industrial conglomerates. Since the rights issue, most of its shares &#173; up to 70% &#173; are now owned by non-Italian fund managers. The meeting was a clear first step towards open conflict with company management and other entrenched Olivetti interests: the De Benedetti family and its allies including all-powerful Milan merchant bank Mediobanca.

<P>
"We knew that the next step, becoming truly active, would require us to know our way around EGMs, Italian company law, articles of association, legal fees, and we simply decided to cross that bridge if we came to it," recalls one of the fund managers.

<P>
<B>Factions entrenched</B>

<P>
But courageous as it sounds, a fight with the vested interests of a major Italian corporate was the last thing the fund managers wanted. It was bound to be messy, time-consuming and expensive and might not deliver the intended result &#173; an improved share price. 

<P>
Two months on from the fund managers' meeting little has changed for the better with De Benedetti and many of the old management factions still entrenched. To De Benedetti the battle is about winning, not about the share price. "We assumed that our interests and those of De Benedetti and his family were aligned. The actions they have taken during 1996, would not appear to bear that out," says Mark Pignatelli, head of the European investment team at Baring Asset Management. So while some sort of showdown is still likely, other investors may decide that selling at a loss is a less painful option. This is the route already taken by Nomura.

<P>
Fund managers have learnt the hard way that, despite paying lip service to modern methods of corporate governance, much of Italian commerce is conducted the traditional way. The old clich&eacute; that Italian shares are weighed not counted &#173; the political weight of an investor being more important than the number of shares he owns &#173; holds true. As long as it does, Italian share offerings will be heavily scrutinized by foreign investors and may be ignored altogether. 

<P>
Says Paolo Braghieri, head of<B> </B>Milan-based CS First Boston Italia (Sim): "Every time something like this happens it is another black spot on the reputation of the Italian market, regardless of whose fault it is. It is still too <BR>
early to talk about corporate governance in this country for there are no truly public companies."

<P>
The Olivetti affair has done considerable damage to Italy's investment prospects and its standing with fund managers. Only a year ago, before the problems at Olivetti, fund managers believed that significant changes were under way. Then Milan financiers began talking excitedly of three rights issues vying for support among equity underwriters and investors. All three &#173; Cofide, Cir and Olivetti &#173; were closely linked to Carlo De Benedetti. Cofide is a financial holding company controlled by the De Benedetti family. It owns 50.1% of Cir, a second De Benedetti vehicle which in turn is the largest single shareholder in Olivetti, Italy's fourth-largest industrial company, with 15%. 

<P>
Olivetti needed to raise capital to escape from its past and secure a brighter future. It had to pay for restructuring its troubled PC division and to finance further investment in Omnitel, in which it is the leading shareholder. The PC division has been responsible for Olivetti's reporting heavy losses for five years. By contrast, Omnitel is hugely promising and poised to move from its investment phase into high profits, probably from 1998. Fund managers were attracted by what they saw as a restructuring stock, but they were soon disappointed. 

<P>
<B>Hidden promise</B>

<P>
The three fund-raising efforts have sucked in an unlikely cast of irate foreign shareholders, worried politicians, stressed regulators, angry union leaders, zealous magistrates, even a campaigning bishop. Managers, chief executives and chairmen have arrived, been sacked and in some cases have returned &#173; all with bewildering speed. Olivetti is still struggling to cope with what new chief executive Roberto Colannino, appointed at the end of September, describes as "a financial crisis" and a "disaster".

<P>
Last December, De Benedetti needed to raise funds at Cofide and Cir in order to subscribe to his quota of rights under the Olivetti issue and so retain control of just over 20% of the company. In Italy a stake of over 25% allows any investor to dominate shareholder meetings. De Benedetti was chairman of Olivetti, and in the previous 10 years his stake had fallen from over 40%. He didn't want it to fall further. But the Cir and Cofide issues never got off the ground. Olivetti's fund-raising, though, led by De Benedetti's closest domestic and international investment banking allies &#173; Mediobanca and Lehman Brothers &#173; was a huge success. 

<P>
Surprisingly, given Olivetti's record, international investors were enthusiastic buyers. "We were absolutely not investing in the Olivetti people had known over the past 10 years," says Baring Asset Management's Pignatelli. "We were buying for one reason only: Omnitel." 

<P>
In February 1995, Omnitel Pronto Italia &#173; 51% owned by Olivetti &#173; had been awarded the second licence to operate in the world's second-best cellular phone market. Olivetti stood to benefit enormously from the strong performance of Omnitel. Far from worrying about the PC division, some investors were pleased about its problems because they thought these were letting them get at Omnitel on the cheap.

<P>
Talal Shakerchi is a fund manager at Old Mutual who has enjoyed good results from buying out-of-favour stocks in which a turnround seems in sight. He bought Olivetti shares in March and April. "Following the rights issue, the shares fell and on our valuation were priced at half their fair value. We were influenced by the message the company gave at the time of the rights issue that it was putting its problems behind it. They were saying 'we have disappointed you in the past, but this time we have sorted ourselves out'." 

<P>
The company was telling investors exactly what they wanted to hear. For example, it said that the PC division would break even by the year-end and, if it did not, Olivetti would sell it or close it down. It mentioned L400 billion ($261.44 million) as the possible cost of closure.

<P>
When the dust had settled on the rights issue, Olivetti had raised L2.257 trillion selling shares at L1,000 each. Cir's stake in the company had fallen to 15%, while 70% or more was held by non-Italian institutions, mainly based in the UK and US. "From that moment there was a huge hole in the Chinese-box system," says one Milan-based investment banker. (Chinese boxes are the series of holding companies investors like De Benedetti use to control large Italian companies while having only small direct shareholdings.) 

<P>
It seemed that ownership and power in Olivetti were passing to a new class of Anglo-Saxon shareholders and that the company was restructuring itself in a way that would improve returns to them. The advent of US-style corporate restructuring in continental Europe &#173; involving lay-offs, cost-cutting, mergers, demergers, share buy-backs, rationalized business lines &#173; is an investment theme brokers and investors in Europe have picked up on recently. The financial comunity wants to believe in it.

<P>
Olivetti seemed to fit the pattern. At the end of 1995 it was reorganizing key business areas into stand-alone divisions, including PCs and its printer, photocopier and fax machine manufacturer Lexicon, offering the hope that either these would be sold off or, at least, that investors would gain a clearer picture of each segment's true profitability. "We bought on the story that this was the new Olivetti," recalls Mark Rogers, senior portfolio manager at Nomura Capital Management. 

<P>
Things went wrong quickly and badly. "We were mugged," says one UK-based investor. "We were lied to," says another, "it's quite obvious they were having us on." Pain flows around the world as easily as capital. In San Francisco, Michael Mahoney, portfolio manager for LGT, was equally distraught: "Owning Olivetti shares has been a drastic mistake."

<P>
<B>Bad to worse</B>

<P>
On January 8 1996, the rights issue was finalized and fully subscribed. On January 23, Olivetti issued a profits warning. Far from overcoming its problems it was set to make a 1995 loss just as bad, if not worse, than in previous years. It projected a pre-tax loss of L500 billion, compared with L605.6 billion for 1994. Bad became worse. In April, Olivetti unveiled a pre-tax loss for 1995 of L1,523 billion, largely because of restructuring costs and provisions. There was still substantial net debt, even after the rights issue. 

<P>
Most worrying, while the PC division's losses did indeed appear at last to be under control, now, unexpectedly, the other businesses were struggling. The PC division still made losses, though smaller ones. Now apparently, Olivetti systems and services, the main source of operating profit, had suffered from a margin squeeze. So too had Lexicon, delaying the company's plans to float off equity in that division on Nasdaq. 

<P>
Investors had focused their worries on the PC division. Olivetti produced quarterly reports on PCs, half-year results for everything else. The company has cut employees in the division from 4,500 18 months ago to 1,750. That accounts for much of last year's large restructuring charge. PC's capacity to lose money is much reduced. Investors were looking out for trouble, but in the wrong place. "We didn't expect that it [the PC division] would produce a return above its cost of capital. But we did expect it to stop losing so much cash," says Rogers. "What no-one imagined was that the other divisions would turn sour just as PCs seemed to turn around." Inevitably, sceptical investors are now wondering whether problems hadn't been transferred from one division to another. Olivetti shows the earnings for its divisions but not the assets within them, so it's hard to get an accurate picture of their true profitability.

<P>
The company's share price had started to slide. Over L1,200 at the time of the rights issue, it slipped towards L900 at the end of January and reached L780 in April, before recovering to around L1,000. 

<P>
Management changes at Ivrea, Olivetti's corporate HQ near Turin, were as worrying and confusing as the share price. In July, Corrado Passera, head of the PC division and credited with pushing through its restructuring, left to become chief executive of Banco Ambroveneto. Passera had played a big part in pitching the turnround story to investors and had also been negotiating a disposal of the PC division with a Japanese company.

<P>
Then, a few weeks later, De Benedetti announced that Francesco Caio, a former McKinsey consultant and head of the highly succesful Omnitel Pronto Italia, would now take over as Olivetti's CEO. De Benedetti remained as chairman but resigned as managing director of the Olivetti board. Some outside shareholders took this as a good sign. LGT's Mahoney remembered Caio in his McKinsey days, when Mahoney himself had worked at Bain &amp; Co. "He was regarded as a real smart guy, a hot shot, a real shaker-upper." Olivetti needed shaking up. Though individual divisions might have good people running them, the company seemed to lack strong management at the very top, capable of making tough decisions. For example, over the years there had been several opportunities to sell the PC business but it had never happened. Perhaps it was coerced by politicians and labour unions to preserve jobs. Perhaps De Benedetti never believed he was being offered a good enough deal. 

<P>
Caio offered the promise of new credibility. Certainly he had impressed investors with the way he and his largely McKinsey-trained team ran Omnitel. "They were very impressive and fully in command of all the figures," recalls Baring's Pignatelli. "They had carefully planned their investment spending for 1996 and intended to break even at the end of 1997 and by then to have zero equity left." In other words, Omnitel was not asking its shareholders for any capital beyond that needed to complete its network. 

<P>
Though Italian, Caio brought an American approach to his new task. If anything he was too aggressive. "He went in there like Arnold Schwarzenegger, firing people left, right and centre," says one analyst. During July and August there seems to have been a power battle between him and De Benedetti. It seems Caio wanted to manage down the market's expectations, produce a really bad set of figures for the first half, get as much bad news out as possible &#173; for which he could not be blamed &#173; and then with luck take credit for a turnround in the second half.

<P>
Olivetti's accounting practices provided the perfect opportunity for this. Because much of its revenue is seasonal &#173; more money comes in during the fourth quarter than any other &#173; the company also accounts for a higher proportion of its costs &#173; roughly 60% &#173; in the second half. By shifting to a 50-50 cost allocation, Caio could make the first-half results appear truly awful. 

<P>
Foreign shareholders were getting more and more worried as the shares slipped again, towards L750. Passera had left and they feared that his strategy for PCs was in tatters and the rest of the company was also deteriorating. By now Olivetti's senior executives weren't talking to foreign shareholders. Nomura Capital Management's Rogers began calling around brokers and other contacts trying to identify other worried shareholders &#173; hence the August 27 meeting. 

<P>
Three days later, De Benedetti resigned as Olivetti's chairman and appeared to step even further into the background. It seemed his grip on power was still slipping and that Caio had ousted him. The share price rose 15% on the news. It looked like dramatic proof of Anglo-Saxon shareholder power. The London fund managers had flexed their muscles and De Benedetti was gone. But in reality it was nothing of the sort. Nor did De Benedetti's departure resolve any of Olivetti's problems.

<P>
<B>Caio says goodbye</B>

<P>
Caio arranged to come to London, but then postponed coming twice, saying he would delay until the first-half figures due on September 30. In fact, these results were announced early, on September 3. They were dire: an operating loss of L80.8 billion (compared with a L73.4 billion profit for the first half of 1995) and an after-tax and extraordinary charges loss of L440.2 billion. Worryingly, net financial indebtedness was up to L1.26 trillion from L774.8 billion at the end of 1995. 

<P>
Communication from the company remained poor. A conference call was arranged for Caio, now in charge of the executive management committee, to discuss the numbers at 5pm London time on the day after they came out. Investors were disappointed. Instead of analyzing the results, Caio spoke for an hour in broad terms about strategy. To most of his audience it was hot air. 

<P>
Unknown to investors, a bitter argument had been raging inside Olivetti about the numbers. On the day of the call, Olivetti director general Renzo Francesconi had resigned after just six weeks in charge of finance and auditing, claiming that published interims understated the disaster. Trading in the company's shares was suspended. 

<P>
It's difficult to say with certainty what had happened. Perhaps Caio had reconsidered his strategy of getting all the bad news out at once and this change of heart had led him into disagreement with Francesconi. 

<P>
What ensued was near chaos. Olivetti denied Francesconi's charges and said it would take legal action. Italian stock market regulator Consob demanded that Olivetti should respond to 16 questions about its accounts. Company managers were summoned before the Italian senate's industrial committee. De Benedetti himself visited an old sparring partner, Italian prime minister Romano Prodi, apparently to reassure him that there would be no need for a state bail-out. Aside from Consob's investigation, public prosecutors in Turin announced they were investigating Caio. On September 18, just 11 weeks after being appointed CEO and five weeks after seeming to best De Benedetti in boardroom combat, Caio was ousted. De Benedetti was back. 

<P>
The company's Anglo-Saxon shareholders were bewildered. Who did they complain to now? If even the published figures were in doubt, how could they make any judgements? How could they even trade the shares? Following the initial suspension, the shares were freed to trade, suspended again, freed to trade, sometimes several times in the same day. Italian shares are automatically suspended if they fall 10% in a day. Some days this rule was applied to Olivetti, on other days it was waived. But the trend was obvious. The shares hit L465. Nomura Capital Management, for one, had seen more than enough. It sold.

<P>
The company's shares had now fallen into the realm of the extreme and the bizarre. The rights issue amounted to L600 per Olivetti share. With the price now below this, the market was effectively saying in September 1996 that the value of the business of Olivetti in December 1995 had been less than nothing. 

<P>
Investors who hung in began to justify doing so on break-up valuation. Its holdings in Omnitel were worth between L750 and L800 per Olivetti share. Add perhaps L250 per share for the value of Lexicon and total up a few other assets, like Olivetti's shares in UK company Acorn Computer, factor in L2.7 trillion of tax-loss carry-forwards &#173; of some value to a prospective corporate buyer of Olivetti &#173; and investors could convince themselves of a theoretical value of L1,500 per share or higher. Such calculations aside, few investors could stomach taking the loss of selling out below L500, when they had bought at L1,000 or higher.

<P>
The real conundrum now was Olivetti's published accounts. Investors pored eagerly over Consob's questions and Olivetti's answers &#173; assuming that these contained the heart of Francesconi's accusations. Investors dreaded a black hole and looked for evidence of serious losses, of the company being milked by unscrupulous insiders. Rumours circulated of questionable internal transfers, high inventories and off-balance sheet exposures. Was systems and services the biggest customer of the PC division? Were serious bad debts lurking in Olivetti's non-consolidated finance companies?

<P>
Closer scrutiny of Consob's questions drew the conclusion that on a whole series of accounting issues, where it had a legal right to choose to be more or less conservative, Olivetti had taken just about the least conservative approach it could. It had limited its provisions against payments due from customers in the former Soviet Union; it had taken no reserve against payables overdue from various arms of the Italian government; it had booked the proceeds from the sale of a block of shares in Acorn, even though Lehman Brothers was still executing the sale; it had included in its factoring of some supposedly non-recourse trade receivables a 10% guarantee to the buyer against possible non-collection. 

<P>
What investors want from a company in difficulties is the exact opposite. Instead of fully valuing its assets and receivables and downplaying its exposures, a restructuring company should lay out the worst of its troubles to investors and explain its plans to improve.

<P>
<B>Enter Colaninno</B>

<P>
The company had perhaps stretched its accounts and balance sheet, but none of this was illegal. "It's hard to see a big black hole there," concludes Shakerchi. "It's hard to see a massive fraud. It would have to have been going on over many years and the company does have Coopers &amp; Lybrand as its auditors." 

<P>
But investors were worried. They were coming under pressure to explain the losses they were sitting on. By mid-September, Olivetti's shareholders could see no other choice than to await the appointment of a new chief executive. They didn't have too long to wait. Olivetti quickly appointed Roberto Colaninno, founder and head of Sogefi, a medium-sized auto-components company. Some 16 years earlier, De Benedetti had tried to lure Colaninno, then an engineer with UK company T&amp;N, to work for him. He settled for having Cir take a 57% stake in Sogefi. Because of these links and because Colaninno lacks experience of the information technology sector and of running an international company, investors remain suspicious.

<P>
Meanwhile more and more problems were emerging at Olivetti. Union leaders were unsettled by talk of selling or closing the PC division and threatened strikes. The bishop of Ivrea has taken up the cause, buying a few shares in Olivetti so that he can oppose redundancies.

<P>
One of the few questions Consob put to the company following Francesconi's departure that Olivetti did not immediately answer concerned its net debt from end-June to end-August. It pleaded the difficulty of obtaining exact figures from over 200 separate group companies. When the figures did come in on September 30, they were alarming. In the two months to end-August net debt had risen to L2.4 trillion from L1.26 trillion at end-June. "There has been a very surprising increase in net debt which is as yet not satisfactorily explained" says Barings' Pignatelli. Once again, investors puzzled over money unaccountably whizzing in and out of Olivetti. Amazingly, just nine months after its huge rights issue, Olivetti once again needed to recapitalize.

<P>
Fund managers came away from informal discussions with Olivetti directors far from convinced they had a full grasp of the figures. But by the beginning of October it was clear that high debts and weak operating performance had reached crisis point. Olivetti could not generate the operating profits needed to pay the interest on its short-term debt. The reasons for the debt increase have still not been adequately explained. The company has mentioned restructuring charges and capital calls at Omnitel &#173; both of which should have been covered by the rights issue &#173; plus seasonally high payments falling due (suppliers are probably in no mood to extend it much credit) and debt service. It has been borrowing to meet interest payments on its existing debt. 

<P>
Next year Olivetti will need L200 billion for interest payments. Investors had feared that this would eat up the entire profits of its only profitable division &#173; systems and services. The company now says it's even worse than that. Systems and services will provide only L100 billion. 

<P>
<B>"I start from zero"</B>

<P>
Finally, foreign shareholders could be ignored no longer. In London on October 4, just 12 days into a fearsomely daunting job, Colaninno confronted aggrieved shareholders, confused analysts and worried bankers.

<P>
The audience blamed Carlo De Benedetti, who had run Olivetti since 1978, first turning it around, then propelling it into the personal computer market in the 1980s. Since then, it seemed, he had lost his magic touch. If Colaninno came across as a De Benedetti puppet, his inquisitors were ready to turn nasty. But he didn't. "I took this job on three conditions," Colaninno announced, "that De Benedetti is considered a normal shareholder, with the same rights as any other; that my job is to relaunch this business as a profitable company and that I be given enough power to do all this." 

<P>
His audience seemed impressed though no-one thought to ask what mysterious authority had enabled him to strike this bargain &#173; with De Benedetti himself perhaps who regards the company as his own, or with De Benedetti's ally Mediobanca, the Milan merchant bank which acts as financial guardian to the interests of Italy's wealthy industrial families and is a shareholder in Olivetti. "I am not interested to make comments on De Benedetti," Colanino insisted with some passion. "I know him, he's a friend &#173; but he's just another shareholder." With the same passion he dismissed the ghosts of Olivetti's recent past. "I don't know Caio or Francesconi and I'm very happy I don't," said Colaninno. "I'm not involved in this funny story. I start from zero."

<P>
"I have found a very critical financial position," Colaninno continued. He vowed to reduce and better control working capital. "The first priority," he said "is credit management. In the last three months, credit management at this company was horrible." Colaninno had started well, coming across as the bluff, plain-talking entrepreneur charged with cleaning up the mess the bunglers had left behind. Unprompted, he had distanced himself from De Benedetti, stressing that he only took the Olivetti job because the 70% to 80% foreign ownership guaranteed that he would be able to implement restructuring free from interference. He also reaffirmed the plan to sell the PC division and to ensure there was no negative cashflow in 1997. 

<P>
Once again, foreign fund managers faced an Olivetti executive telling them exactly what they wanted to hear. Plans for the future sounded good. But the meeting was not entirely satisfactory, especially when Colaninno was quiet and other entrenched Olivetti executives had to speak. Their explanations of how net debt got out of control and what lay behind margin pressure on key businesses were murky. 

<P>
Not all investors liked everything Colaninno had to say. As part of his emergency asset disposal plan to raise cash, he intends to sell off an 8% stake in Omnitel-Sistemi Radiocellulari, acquired last year from Lehman Brothers for L283 billion. Olivetti now owns 59% of Omnitel SR, which in turn owns 70% of Omnitel Telecomunicazioni Cellulari, the mobile-phone operating company set up this January. Thus, Olivetti reasons, it can sell off this stake &#173; probably to Mannesman of Germany, an existing investor in the project &#173; without losing majority control of the whole venture. 

<P>
<B>Family silver</B>

<P>
This, together with the sale of PCs, Tecnost and a few other assets, should, so the plan goes, help raise L800 billion by the year-end. It intends to continue sales into 1997, including the delayed part-flotation of Lexicon, with the aim of raising L1.2 trillion. Some investors accept the need to unload the Omnitel stake but many others dislike it.

<P>
Olivetti directors had mentioned the possibility of this sale to some shareholders during informal discussions in September. They opposed the idea. Omnitel is all that underpins Olivetti's share price now that systems and services' results are unpredictable. Reducing its holdings in Omnitel is hardly calculated to help Olivetti shares recover. Questioners asked Colaninno why he proposed to sell an attractive, marketable asset in an off-balance sheet, self-funding company with strong profit potential and use the cash to prop up less-transparent, cash-consuming businesses. His reply: "It's like going to the doctor and realizing you have to lose a finger to save your hand." In other words, pressure to sell Omnitel shows the depth of Olivetti's financial crisis.

<P>
"I would far rather they pledged that stake to the banks to raise money. But I don't want them to give up actual long-term ownership of a single share," says LGT's Mahoney. Barings' Pignatelli suggests Olivetti should instead sell its investment in Infostrada, its joint venture with the Italian railway network to compete in fixed-line telephones. It's an attractive long-term prospect but one that requires high short-term capital expenditure. "Its a luxury the Olivetti balance sheet cannot afford," says Pignatelli. Analysts guess it might get L300 billion of cash for it.

<P>
It's not just shareholders who are breathing down Olivetti's neck. It has bankers to worry about too. For the moment, Italian banks, which provide between 70% and 80% of credit lines, are supporting management. US vulture funds have made inquiries in Milan hoping to pick up bank debt at between 60% and 70% of face value, the kind of distressed levels associated with companies in the sort of trouble Eurotunnel faces. They have found none. Banks in the Mediobanca galaxy, Credito Italiano and Banca Commerciale Italiana, support Olivetti. Other Italian banks take comfort from this. Few in any case have enough capital to take a big write-down on their Olivetti exposure. 

<P>
This support may not hold. Mediobanca's attitude is crucial but hard to read. For the moment, it has blessed Colaninno's appointment. For all Colaninno's protestations of independence, the cynical view in Milan is that De Benedetti still calls the tune, with Mediobanca's help. But Mediobanca's support for De Benedetti did not extend so far as to help him out with the failed Cir and Cofide rights issues last year. Its attitude to him then, says the Italian head of a foreign bank in Italy, was: "'You have other assets you can sell to raise cash, that's your problem.' Mediobanca probably thinks there is a chance to turn Olivetti around and save everybody's money. And Mediobanca are the guys who can keep you alive when you should be dead. But I do not think Mediobanca is in love with this asset in the same way as with Feruzzi or Montedison. Like everyone else, they want to resolve the problem, but this could go to a debt-equity swap." 

<P>
Since De Benedetti's resignation and the ensuing chaos, some foreign banks have reduced their exposure by not renewing lines as they fall due. "We used to have an extremely good dialogue with Olivetti management at many levels," says the country head of a large foreign bank in Milan and a lender to the company. "But during this crisis they have made no effort to contact us, which shows how bad their management has been. If this uncertainty continues it may have a substantial impact on the company's commercial activities and that will feed through very quickly to its cashflow."

<P>
This banker, like the shareholders, is awaiting the outcome of investigations by Consob and the Ivrea magistrates into allegations of false accounting and the progress of Colaninno's disposal and rescue plans. Creditors take a different view to shareholders. The company's convertible bonds, which had traded down as low as 80% of face value, have recently recovered to 86%. "The sale of the Omnitel stake is good for bond holders because it produces cash to meet maturities," says Julian Nichols, an analyst of distressed debt at Bankers Trust in London. "But shareholders see the future disappearing."

<P>
So what can shareholders do? The boldest suggestion would be to call an EGM, kick out the present management and vote in a new board to run the company properly. But Colaninno deserves his chance.

<P>
<B>Shareholder options</B>

<P>
In Milan there are mixed views on Colaninno. Braghieri says: "He is a very capable hands-on manager and I believe he has a wide scope in his mandate to act independently. He is the right man, though the challenge is tough. But I think he will succeed. What he has promised so far is not impossible." Others are less sure. "He has already made mistakes," judges the head of one bank in Milan. "It is unnecessary to go to quarterly statements [something Colaninno promised at the London meeting]. No-one else in Italy does that. No-one will care and it will just put more stress on the few good managers he has left." He adds: "And the last thing he should be doing is talking about another capital increase."

<P>
On October 10 Colaninno told the Italian senate industry committee that if the plans to solve the immediate financial crisis work out, the company might return to shareholders at the end of 1997 to fund a more strategic three-year restructuring plan. 

<P>
Although Colaninno has won some time from shareholders, many investors worry about some of the managers kicked out by Caio who have returned. And there is a strong sense that De Benedetti still exercises undue control. "Clearly they [foreign institutions] are not going to run the company themselves but trusting many of the people who have lost over $3 billion in the last three years to solve its problems is ridiculous," says the Milan office head of one international investment bank. There is no shortage of voices urging on the shareholders to be more aggressive. "I have lost my respect for these guys," says one Italian banker "They only squeal. But they don't propose anything. Their behaviour is a little pathetic."

<P>
The foreign shareholders have at least won one victory. On October 18, Olivetti appointed four new non-executive directors. Among them is Dario Trevisan, a 32-year-old Milan-based lawyer who has acted in the past as legal counsel for foreign shareholders of Italian companies. Foreign institutions had proposed his appointment as a director in September. The company itself had separately hit upon the idea of an independent director to reassure foreign shareholders. But it resisted Trevisan, furious that it should appear to have any outside director forced upon it. 

<P>
At the October 4 meeting, Colaninno promised two new directors of international standing. But the company was still holding out against Trevisan, even though Baring Asset Management in particular was lobbying for him and US institutions also supported him. Shareholders feared that Olivetti would try to fob them off with cosmetic appointments, perhaps from Lehman Brothers or Lazard which has its own ties to Mediobanca. In the end, it appointed Bruno Lamborghini, an Olivetti insider, along with Trevisan and two other independents: Gordon Owen, former chairman of Mercury Communications and retired managing director of Cable &amp; Wireless, and G&eacute;rard Worms, chairman of the board of general partners of Rothschild Bank. 

<P>
On the day of his appointment, Trevisan told <I>Euromoney</I>: "My aim will be to ensure an adequate flow of information to shareholders, which has not existed in the past." Even though he is not an executive director, as a board member he will have powers to request financial reports. He may want to push some ideas for allowing outside independent auditors better access.

<P>
<B>Hold the crusade</B>

<P>
Owen's appointment came out of the blue. It pleased investors. He has strong industry experience and is clearly independent. It brings credibility. On the question of directors, Colaninno had promised and delivered, offering hope that he would do the same with the sale of PCs and the other elements of the recapitalization plan. Unfortunately, the share price has remained low, not helped by one or two large international investors bailing out.

<P>
Unless more bad news leaks out, most of Olivetti's remaining outside shareholders will probably await events. They know that they look weak. But it would take two months from calling an EGM to holding it and voting the present board out. The two months from now to the end of the year are perhaps the most crucial ever for the company, as it tries to negotiate the sale of assets, get control of its internal cashflow and limit the damage being done to its underlying businesses. A battle with its own shareholders might push it to the brink of collapse. 

<P>
The overriding interest of fund managers is share-price recovery. A battle with management would likely drive it further down. As one fund manager says: "You don't necessarily get paid for going on a shareholders' rights crusade." 

<P>
But while shareholders may have been persuaded to wait and see, things are set to erupt again on further evidence that De Benedetti is pulling the strings. De Benedetti clings to control of Olivetti &#173; its four-man executive committee is stuffed with cronies, including his son and his lawyer &#173; with a direct holding of only 3.5% of its shares, probably less than Baring's.

<P>
The foreign shareholders, who had believed that their interests as owners and De Benedetti's were aligned, have realized their error. De Benedetti seems to have a different agenda. Though he wants to keep the company solvent and out of the banks' hands, he does not, so far as the shareholders see it, care too much about the share price. The Italian equity strategist at one international investment bank<B> </B>says: "De Benedetti loves power fights. And that's what this is all about now: power, profile and status. He doesn't want a bunch of young Anglo-Saxons telling him what to do, just because they happen to be the shareholders." But the result of such intransigence is to blacken the name not only of Olivetti but also of Italy.&#009;* 

<H2>
<B>Engineer of fortune</B>
</H2>
<P>
Carlo De Benedetti knows how to play the game from all sides. He started as an outsider and struggled until he became part of the Italian establishment. The tricks he learnt on the way up have proved useful in keeping other interlopers &#173; such as foreign fund managers &#173; at arm's length. 

<P>
De Benedetti was born in Turin in 1934. The son of a Jewish industrialist, he worked in his father's steel and automotive parts company in the 1960s. He first rose to real prominence in Italian business and financial circles in 1976 when he emerged from a series of stock market deals with a strategic investment in vehicle-maker Fiat, eventually becoming managing director of Italy's leading industrial company.

<P>
At this stage, he became noted for making waves inside the Milan-centred Italian business and financial elite. He was nicknamed <I>l'ingegnere</I>, the engineer, pushing his way to fame and fortune alongside <I>l'avocato</I>, the lawyer, Giovanni Agnelli, president of Fiat.

<P>
He argued with the Agnelli clan and left Fiat. In 1978, one of De Benedetti's family holding companies, Cir, bought a stake in Olivetti, a typewriter and office machine company which De Benedetti took control of and pushed into the computer business during the early 1980s. Olivetti remains his baby. Running the company gives him a position of leadership in Italian industry.

<P>
Over the years, he has become more and more closely tied to the Italian establishment he once appeared to threaten. He is a shareholder in Milan merchant bank, Mediobanca, which in turn owns shares in Olivetti.

<P>
In 1982 he was appointed deputy chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, leaving after two months, apparently unable to work with Roberto Calvi. The short episode has troubled him ever since. De Benedetti has been convicted over the collapse of the bank and sentenced to four and a half years imprisonment. He is using an extensive Italian appeal system to contest the sentence. Talk in Milan says his aim is simply to avoid serving jail time. 

<P>
De Benedetti pursued international ambitions in Spain and France. He built up the French holding company Cerus which in the late 1980s attempted to take over Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;ral de Belgique, Belgium's biggest company. It was a protracted, distracting and unsuccessful effort.

<P>
As troubling for De Benedetti, Olivetti has struggled to make a success in the competitive personal computer business in Italy, recording losses in each of the past five years. 

<H2>
<B>Is Lehman to blame?</B>
</H2>
<P>
Lehman Brothers has taken a lot of flak for its role in the Olivetti affair. It acts as something of a house bank to De Benedetti companies including Cir and Olivetti. The relationship goes back some years. De Benedetti used to be a director of the old Shearson Lehman. As well as selling the Omnitel stake to Olivetti, entering into an equity swap to dispose of its Acorn shares and leading the rights issue, Lehman appears to act on behalf of the De Benedetti family in other ways. It interviewed Trevisan before his board appointment.

<P>
Some shareholders are bitter about Lehman's role in the rights issue and in the company's failure to warn of margin pressure at systems and services, the one Olivetti business actually making money. "You just don't have business margins collapsing from 6% to 3% like that without any warning," says one US fund manager. During presentations from Olivetti in November 1995, investors were shown charts projecting a steady margin (operating result as percentage of revenues) improvement at systems and services from 3.5% in 1994, to 5.5% in 1995, and to 6.9% in 1996. And at Lexicon returns on sales were projected to go from 4% in 1994 to 7.2% in 1995 and 9.5% in 1996. The eventual result for the first half of 1996 was far worse and neither Olivetti nor its bankers provided much warning. One fund manager complains: "Even as late as July and August, the company was talking about slight margin pressure which I would take to mean a fall of about 50bp, not the nearer 300bp we were eventually shown."

<P>
Investors recall the attitude of Lehman analysts and sales staff to the Olivetti deal and contrast it with Morgan Stanley's much more cautious presentations for Mediaset, the TV company spun off earlier this year from Silvio Berlusconi's Fininvest. Various senior Fininvest figures were under investigation by Italian magistrates at the time. Morgan Stanley's analysts were criticized in some quarters for too much talk about these risks and not enough about Mediaset's prospects. Lehman Brothers was much more enthusiastic about Olivetti. 

<P>
One US fund manager says: "If all this had happened in the US, we would consider going after them legally." As it is, this fund manager's revenge will take another form. "Lehman won't get close to their normal level of commissions from us for at least a couple of years. Maybe not right away, but in the medium term this will hurt them."

<P>
But other investors are more charitable. "Lehman was probably misled just like we were," suggests one. Lehman, it is assumed, has suffered as an investor in Olivetti. It is thought to have reinvested the proceeds from the sale of its 8% holding in Omnitel in Olivetti shares. Although Lehman booked a gain on the Omnitel sale, Olivetti is now likely to sell that stake on again at a higher price and Olivetti's own shares have halved in price. But it is not clear whether Lehman still owns those shares or sold them when &#173; or before &#173; the price collapsed. Lehman did not respond to interview requests. 

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>



</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-77</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B047-151</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.06/em.96.06.2.html 194.217.137.48 19970114131842 text/html 34678
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:17:41 GMT
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 16:48:19 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 34443
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00005000 Syndicated Loans -->
<!--00003100 Mergers and Acquisitions -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
June 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>SYNDICATED LOANS</H3> 
<H2>When Jimmy means Chase </H2>
<H4>Does your company need a big loan, fast? Those in the know reckon Jimmy
- Chase's James Lee - is your man. At Chemical, Lee led the market
in US syndicated loans even before the merger with Chase. Now his team is
dominant, and the most powerful financier since Michael Milken is set on
expanding further, offering corporates package deals. But do they want or
need them? And if Jimmy's empire gets bigger won't they lose the personal
service that makes him so appealing? <BR>
Stephen Neish reports </H4>
His Chase business card reads James Bainbridge Lee, Jr. On Wall Street,
he's simply known as Jimmy. In his trademark blue shirt, white collar and
cuffs and silver-dollar braces, he looks more like the investment bankers
he is trying to beat than a traditional money lender. More Gekko than McGillicuddy.
<BR>
<BR>
A Chemical man through and through, Lee has yet fully to come to terms with
his old bank's merger with Chase, despite the Chase logo being on everything
from the garish red entrance lobby of the Park Avenue headquarters building
to the wrappers of the sugar that comes with the morning coffee. <BR>
<BR>
At 43, Lee looks too young to be head of global investment banking at the
largest bank in the US. His boyish smile, his crimped, gelled hair and his
tan go with an affability that means more people warm to him than are put
off by his oversized ego. But if he says &quot;I&quot; too often where others
would say &quot;we&quot;, he can be forgiven. After all, his clients tend
to say Jimmy when they mean Chase. <BR>
<BR>
His corner office is full of plastic-encased tombstones, mementoes of 21
years of lending. Between them stand framed photographs - Lee receiving
awards, his wife and children, Lee with Ronald Reagan. Alone on a shelf
in a cabinet is <I>The Downing Street Years</I>, Margaret Thatcher's autobiography.
A country-club bag lies on the floor. The desk and a large circular meeting
table are covered in paperwork. <BR>
<BR>
Those who know Lee describe him as an arch-preppy, a product of the upper-class
New England educational system. &quot;He never hides the Bainbridge part
of his name,&quot; says one. After boarding school in Connecticut he studied
economics at the top-flight Williams College. Immediately after graduating
he joined Chemical, spending three years running its merchant bank in Australia
before returning home to start its loan-syndication department in 1984.
<BR>
<BR>
That move was the making of Lee. Since then the market has moved away from
bilateral loans towards syndications, and two merger booms have fuelled
demand for large sums put together at short notice. As a result, Lee's department
became the driving force of Chemical and, in its merged form, Chase. In
his rapid ascent through the hierarchy Lee has undoubtedly touched some
raw nerves, but he's never been one to let tradition or more worldly seniors
stop his sharp-elbowed advance. However many enemies he has made on the
way up, he is now the man who can get you more money, more quickly and with
more certainty than any other banker in the US. Ask his clients. <BR>
<BR>
ITT, for example, both in its old conglomerate form and in its new guise
as four independent entities, has used what is now Chase for over $30 billion
of financing. In December 1994 the group was planning to acquire the Caesars
World casino chain, a deal it went ahead to complete for $1.7 billion. Ann
Reese, now chief financial officer of ITT Corp, needed to tell ITT chairman
Rand Araskog whether the firm would be able to assemble the financing swiftly
enough to make a bid. &quot;I needed to make one call to know if I could
get it done,&quot; says Reese. &quot;Jimmy is the person I called.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Richard Bressler, chief financial officer of Time Warner, adds credence
to Lee's claim that he has never let anyone down. &quot;Chase, particularly
Jimmy Lee, has demonstrated the ability to deliver on complex financings,&quot;
says Bressler. &quot;When I pick up the phone and call him, he's always
been there to deliver.&quot; An example was an $8.3 billion acquisition
financing and revolving credit facility last summer, which ran parallel
with the financing of the sale of a 51% interest in Time Warner's Six Flags
Theme Parks to an investor group led by Boston Ventures for close to $1
billion. Lee picked up a colossal $32 million in fees for Chase for putting
together these deals. <BR>
<BR>
The loyalty of such big-ticket clients is one of the reasons why the new
Chase took a 26% market share in the US syndicated-loan market last year.
The bank argues that in fact the figure should be higher, since Loan Pricing
Corporation, which compiles the statistics, includes administrative, syndication
and documentation agents in its figures, not just the bank claiming the
top-left spot on the tombstones (the administrative agent that runs the
show). Citibank, at number two, had only a 12% market share. <BR>
<BR>
A breakdown by deal size gives an even better idea of Chase's - and
Lee's - influential position in the market. In 1995 Chase had a 31%
share of deals over $1 billion, a 48% share of deals over $5 billion and
a 55% share of deals over $7 billion. <BR>
<BR>
Figures for the first quarter of 1996, using data provided by Chase which
give full credit to the administrative agent, indicate that Chase had 48%
of all syndicated loans, 57% of loans over $1 billion and ran all three
of the deals over $7 billion. The bank syndicated $60 billion worth of deals
during the quarter, half as much again as the rest of the top five -
Citibank, JP Morgan, First Chicago and Bankers Trust - combined. So
much buying power is concentrated in Lee's hands that he is often described
as a new Michael Milken, the former employee of Drexel Burnham Lambert who
in the early 1980s controlled the US junk-bond market. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Pushing up profits</B> <BR>
<BR>
Those who draw a comparison with Milken are quick to add that Lee's integrity
has never been questioned - Milken's reign finally ended when he pleaded
guilty to six counts of securities fraud in November 1990. But it's not
only on the score of business ethics that the similarities shade off into
major differences. Milken was the predominant source of high-yield finance
to companies in the 1980s; Lee is banker to much of corporate America, not
just to raiders. The market over which he holds sway is far larger than
Milken's was. Junk-bond issuance peaked in 1988 at $68 billion. Last year
corporate borrowing drove the syndicated-loan market to a record volume
of $818 billion. And in the days when Milken could be said to have owned
the market, at the beginning of the decade, high-yield volumes were tiny.
In 1981 junk issuance totalled $1.47 billion, $1.08 billion of which was
issued by Drexel. Lee's volume in the loan market last year, even taking
the pre-merger Chemical-only figures, was $258 billion. <BR>
<BR>
The sheer size is important. &quot;There's no doubt that Jimmy's dominant
share of the syndication market really creates, in effect, an advantage
for people who work with him,&quot; says Steve Schwarzman, chief executive
of leveraged buyout firm the Blackstone Group. Being involved in more deals
than any other bank gives the Chase team a particularly acute and timely
grasp of market conditions. While other firms are reading about a deal the
following day, Lee's origination department has probably already seen it.
&quot;With intensity and focus, you can mark to market your entire approach,&quot;
says Lee, &quot;so you're able to fine-tune everything that you're doing
on a daily basis.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Chase has an impressive distribution capability - &quot;We talk to
the institutions three or four times a day, we have a very good understanding
of their requirements,&quot; says head of syndicated distribution<B> </B>Greg
Nelson - but it's hardly the position of persuasion Milken achieved.
Other banks and prime-rate funds will buy syndicated deals from other people
- whether they are wise to do so is another matter. &quot;Can someone
else do a $4 billion deal? Sure,&quot; says one principal. &quot;Are you
better off having Jimmy do it than just about anyone else? Yes.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Does his market position give Lee too much power? &quot;I wouldn't have
used the P-word,&quot; says Lee. &quot;It's true that if you look at our
share of bank deals of $5 billion or more, we've lead-managed about two-thirds
of them. It's not so much that we have influence, but that our name is associated
with confidence. If there's an issue about whether a big, tough deal gets
done, we get the call, whether or not we have an existing relationship.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Lee's team has not always held the top spot in the league tables. In 1989,
Manufacturers Hanover Trust, Citicorp and Bankers Trust all ranked higher
than Lee's syndicated-loan group at Chemical. Only in 1992 did Chemical
begin to pull ahead, ending the year with a 15% share. By the following
year it had 20%, rising to 21% in 1994 and 1995. The merger with Chase,
which closed on March 31, takes this to 26%. But did Chemical make Lee,
or Lee Chemical? The answer is probably a bit of both, with Lee's part in
Chemical/Chase's success getting more important in recent years. <BR>
<BR>
The early gains in Chemical's market share were not so much won by Lee as
lost by others. Citibank ceded its leadership position after a number of
loans it made to high-profile companies, especially in the retailing sector,
went sour. To add insult to injury, many of the debtor-in-possession refinancings
for these companies which followed were done by Chemical. And at Bankers
Trust the then chairman, Charles Sanford, refocused on specialist products,
such as derivatives, leveraged finance and Latin American debt, leaving
room for others at the top of the syndicated loan league tables. <BR>
<BR>
When Chemical took over a beleaguered Manufacturers Hanover in 1991, Lee
gained new relationships to feed Chemical's strong distribution network,
adding another few percentage points of market share in the process. The
merger with Chase adds yet more clients. <BR>
<BR>
On the surface, then, it would seem that Lee's supremacy is largely the
result of his running the loan operations of a combination of three banks
which already held strong market positions. There's more to it than that.
Some bankers note that Lee made a name for himself at Chemical before that
institution built up such a powerful platform. &quot;What makes him formidable
is that he doesn't like to lose,&quot; says one. &quot;His instincts at
the end of the deal are very good. Jimmy tracks perfectly the last two days
of the deal, when you're in trouble, when the client doesn't want something,
when you need more money.&quot; Without prompting, comparisons are again
drawn with Milken. Even when Milken's influence was at its height, many
other firms had more capital than Drexel. <BR>
<BR>
Before the announcement of Chemical's merger with Manufacturers Hanover
in July 1991, the market capitalization of Chemical, Manufacturers Hanover
and Chase combined was $6 billion. Today it is over $30 billion. Stock-market
analysts praise the way the bank has cherry-picked staff and used leadership
positions in different areas of consumer and wholesale banking to maximize
its use of capital. If the figures are presented for the combined entity,
last year Chase had after-tax earnings of $2.97 billion and a return on
equity of 19%. Lee has been one of the biggest drivers of profit. Chase
vice-chairman Bill Harrison notes that 10 years ago he had innumerable competitors,
because his bank simply lent money. Syndication has narrowed the field -
banks need to have distribution strength in order to take part. <BR>
<BR>
Lee has nurtured both sides of his business. &quot;We've never started anything
we didn't finish,&quot; he says. He believes that's why firms come to him.
To keep the promise of a comprehensive service, Lee has built a syndication
desk that runs more like a bond-trading room than anything usually seen
in a commercial bank. He fights to take the top-left spot of administrative
agent on deals so that he can control the structuring of the credit. Lee
thinks of any loans being syndicated by his team as having an &quot;approved
by Chase&quot; label on them. If he passes on duds to investors, they'll
stop taking his calls. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;One of the keys to understanding Chemical,&quot; says a banking analyst,
&quot;is that of the loans originated on the Chemical side - forget
the Manny Hanny side - they have had almost no dogs. Almost none. That
enables them to be bold, because they think they know what they are doing.&quot;
For all the billions Lee has committed in recent years, sources cite only
two deals that have performed poorly - a $1 billion loan to entertainment
company DreamWorks SKG and a $425 million syndication managed for clothing
manufacturer London Fog Corporation. Chemical was reported to have been
left with $400 million of the DreamWorks loan when investors failed to buy
into the start-up founded by Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David
Geffen. Sources at Chase say the $400 million figure is &quot;way too high&quot;.
London Fog had to be restructured within a year because the company underperformed.
<BR>
<BR>
For the most part Lee is credited with, as one client puts it, &quot;impeccable
judgement&quot;. Some firms value that judgement so much that they will
pay for it even when he is not raising money for them. When Chrysler became
the subject of a hostile takeover by Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda in April
1995, the Detroit car maker assembled a redoubtable defence team, including
Morgan Stanley, CS First Boston and Salomon Brothers. But it also secretly
retained Chemical to advise on whether Tracinda would be able to put financing
in place for its $20.4 billion offer. &quot;Jimmy Lee is the best bank syndication
director out there,&quot; says Chrysler treasurer Tom Capo. &quot;We retained
Jimmy's group as a strategic adviser to us regarding all syndication matters.&quot;
Lee advised that Kerkorian would not be able to find the money. He was right.
<BR>
<BR>
Lee claims the loan decision is a question of character - will the
borrower sit down to thrash out a deal if something goes wrong? Says Blackstone's
Schwarzman: &quot;He moves the deal around to make it work, with people
he likes. And he doesn't like everybody.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
One person Lee does like is Michael Jordan, chief executive of Westinghouse
Electric. When Jordan took over the ailing company in 1993 he set about
changing its product mix, selling real-estate developer Westinghouse Communities
for $556 million and making plans for the divestiture of furniture-maker
Knoll Group, Westinghouse's defence electronics division and some smaller
properties. <BR>
<BR>
It was hoped that Westinghouse could be turned around partly by building
a bigger presence in the high-margin, high-growth broadcasting sector. The
centrepiece of the strategy was to be the purchase of CBS, one of the three
US national broadcasting networks. &quot;The Street didn't think the deal
could get done,&quot; says Lee. &quot;The average equity analyst couldn't
work out how Westinghouse could borrow $7.5 billion in its present state
to buy this theoretically overpriced network.&quot; Lee thought it was an
excellent deal for Westinghouse. &quot;I personally am a big fan of what
Jordan and [Westinghouse chief financial officer Fred] Reynolds are doing
there,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Big numbers, fast</B> <BR>
<BR>
That endorsement led to $7.5 billion being guaranteed to Reynolds. Lee was
called before the CBS advisers three times to promise that the money would
be forthcoming. To keep his word, he marshalled a team of 30 bankers, who
came up with a structure of two seven-year tranches of $2.5 billion each
and a 30-month asset-sale bridge loan of $2.5 billion. Worried that Westinghouse
might have to back away from the deal, CBS had negotiated penalties which
would take effect if the financing did not fall into place on time. As it
turned out, the loan was oversubscribed by day four and the call for cash
was stopped on the seventh day. &quot;We cut it off at $14.5 billion, but
there were still people coming in,&quot; says Reynolds. &quot;It could have
gone to over $16 billion.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The complexity of financings like the Westinghouse deal is what earns Lee
and his department such high fees. In this case the $7.5 billion facility
reaped them $25 million. Did they earn it? &quot;Sure, they did a terrific
job,&quot; says Reynolds. But having such a strong market presence has other
advantages. Having collected the fee for taking a risk with Westinghouse,
Lee landed for Chemical an advisory role in the divestiture of ESG, Westinghouse's
defence electronics subsidiary, an assignment shared with former deputy
treasury secretary Roger Altman and JP Morgan. Lee's job was to assess the
credibility of potential acquirers' bids. <BR>
<BR>
By January the advisers had found a buyer, Northrop Grumman, and the soon-to-be
merged Chase and Chemical loan teams provided $4.8 billion to Northrop to
complete the purchase. Having already done due diligence on Westinghouse,
Lee was able to approve a loan for the deal within 24 hours, in effect reducing
the bank's exposure to Westinghouse in favour of Northrop - and picking
up another fee. <BR>
<BR>
The new Chase has a pedigree of being able to deliver big numbers, fast
- Lee arranged the biggest deal ever, $25 billion for General Motors
in 1993, and provided American Home Products with the $10 billion it needed
to acquire American Cyanamid a year later - but it has not had things
all its own way. There are big deals that Lee does not see. In the last
quarter of 1995, Citibank knocked Chemical off the number-one spot thanks
to a $12 billion loan to Walt Disney to fund the entertainment giant's acquisition
of Capital Cities/ABC. <BR>
<BR>
Both Citibank and JP Morgan, which often trade second and third spots in
the league tables, are described by their clients as doing an outstanding
job in the loan market. But both have blue-chip client lists with solid
credit ratings which generate little or no fee income on the standard loan
product. Chase aims to get business in what it calls situational financings,
when the company concerned has a tough story to tell. A recent example,
announced on March 28, was Chase's decision to provide $3.7 billion to discount
retailer Kmart, a facility described by chairman Floyd Hall as &quot;a milestone
in Kmart's turnaround strategy&quot;. By contrast, in Disney's deal with
Citibank there was never going to be any doubt about the company's ability
to raise the money, even given the large sums involved. <BR>
<BR>
Despite Chase's rankings stumble late last year, there are signs that it
could strengthen its position even further. Citibank, its nearest rival,
is rebuilding itself around its worldwide consumer banking and emerging
market wholesale banking businesses. Having once topped the loan league
tables, Citibank no longer seems to consider it a number one priority to
fight Chase for syndicated loan volume. Lee, though, is intent on making
global investment banking at Chase an even more powerful force than it already
is. <BR>
<BR>
Talk to Lee for more than five minutes and the phrase &quot;one-stop shopping&quot;
will inevitably come up. The concept is not exclusive to Chase, but some
in the market consider that Lee is trying to brand it as such. The package
involves going beyond putting the bank finance in place for a deal -
in addition Chase offers clients M&amp;A advisory services and high-yield
bond underwriting. By the end of this year, one-stop shopping will also
offer equity issuance. Playing in other parts of the capital structure does
not mean Chase is on the brink of dominating any of them, but the information
feedback to the loans desk could help strengthen Lee's grasp. Says ITT's
Reese: &quot;Because they offer a number of services, they are in a dialogue
with a client more and more, and they are going to get more of the deal
flow because they're not just pitching blind.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
More important still for Lee, a strong M&amp;A presence will elevate his
contacts from the level of chief financial officer level to that of chairman
and chief executive level. Says Mark Davis, who was recently hired from
Salomon Brothers to add credibility to Chase's merger operations: &quot;There's
no business like the M&amp;A business for getting to know your client. Once
you have the CEO's ear, you can compete for all that firm's business.&quot;
Lee would also rather socialize with chief executives than with treasurers.
Critics accuse him of being star-struck. Displayed in his office is a letter
from Spielberg, Geffen and Katzenberg thanking him for his part in raising
$1 billion for DreamWorks, the deal he could not then fully syndicate. Lee
serves on the DreamWorks board. Also on display are pictures of Lee at dealmaker
Herb Allen's Sun Valley entertainment conference, and a note from Allen
thanking Lee for attending. Some argue that Lee's quest to be a dealmaker
rests on a desire further to escape the drab image of commercial bank lending.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Loans competition hots up</B> <BR>
<BR>
Lee is smart enough not to confront Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley head-on
in M&amp;A advisory, or Merrill Lynch and Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
(DLJ) in high-yield bonds. Others have tried and failed. Instead Lee talks
of changing the rules of the game. &quot;We have a specific agenda to make
sure we look like nothing that has gone before us,&quot; he says. That means
offering clients the flexibility to change between bank debt and junk bonds
in 20 minutes over the telephone (as happened with Time Warner's Six Flags
deal); giving commitments to finance a transaction within 24 hours; and
offering lower fees overall, because the bank is being paid fees on all
elements of the capital structure. <BR>
<BR>
The two transactions the bank likes to showcase are the buyout of UCAR Global
Enterprises from Union Carbide by the Blackstone Group, announced in October
1994, and Clayton Dubilier &amp; Rice's October 1995 acquisition of packaging
company Riverwood International from Manville Corporation, which held an
81.3% stake. <BR>
<BR>
In the case of UCAR, which Union Carbide was in the process of spinning
off when Blackstone decided to pounce, there could be no question of delay
in finding the financing. Within weeks, Chemical had put up $700 million
in senior bank debt, a $375 million subordinated bridge loan and $10 million
of equity. To cement the transaction, Chemical's Walt Shipley had to call
Union Carbide's Bob Kennedy to give a chairman-to-chairman assurance that
the $1 billion was there. <BR>
<BR>
The Riverwood deal took the concept a step further, in that Lee actually
took the idea of the buyout to Clayton Dubilier &amp; Rice. The advertisement
which appeared in the <I>Wall Street Journal</I> on April 16 this year to
mark the closing of the deal had five separate tombstones announcing Chase's
roles as equity investor, financial adviser, dealer manager for the tender
of existing debt, lead manager on $650 million of high-yield securities
and provider of $1.69 billion in bank debt. An earlier draft of the advert
played up Chase's role even more, to the point that other parties asked
that it be redrafted. Although the deal is a milestone in Lee's quest to
create a new kind of banking hybrid, sources note that CS First Boston and
Merrill Lynch played a strong supporting role on the high-yield offering.
<BR>
<BR>
If Chase is to succeed in branding one-stop shopping as its own, it will
have to fight off competition from investment banks driving at the same
goal from the other side of the Glass-Steagall barriers. In some respects,
Chase is behind the game. Merrill Lynch, which hired five of Lee's syndication
team 18 months ago to start up a leveraged-loan operation, has already led
a deal which included a $950 million senior credit facility and a $200 million
convertible issue for manufacturing concern Elsag Bailey. Says Charles Wickham,
one of the ex-Chemical bankers, now a director in the loan-syndicate group
at Merrill: &quot;Most people can only say one-stop shopping on the debt
side. We can say it across the entire capital structure, from the senior
all the way through to the equity side.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and DLJ have all moved to offer bank loans
to their clients, although the commercial banks are quick to ask how big
a loan these players could make. DLJ, for example, is raising a $900 million
bank fund from which to offer loans to clients. The terms of the fund, however,
restrict the size of any one loan to $300 million. Says Bill Finnegan, head
of high-yield bonds at Chase: &quot;When a deal like Riverwood comes in,
there aren't many people you can go to for your $1.6 billion.&quot; There's
a footnote - to raise the $900 million fund, DLJ put up equity and
borrowed the balance from a bank syndicate. The syndicate was led by Chase.
Some institutions, such as Goldman Sachs, have shown themselves capable
of doing larger deals. Last year the firm was one of four lead banks which
put together a $4 billion credit facility for UK electricity generator PowerGen's
proposed acquisition of UK electricity distributor Midlands Electricity.
The deal was disallowed in May by the UK government. <BR>
<BR>
To beat the commercial banks at their own game, however, the Wall Street
firms will have to show that they can hold loans, not just syndicate them,
and have the strength to weather a recession. Says Harold Siegel, a director
in the loan-syndicate group at Merrill: &quot;One thing some underwriting
banks have used against us is they say that we don't hold on to portions
of the transactions we underwrite. We always hold a significant piece of
everything we agent. Merrill has the capital to do that.&quot; Wall Street
firms, however, have never endured a period when they have taken loan losses.
The next recession will be their first as lenders. &quot;Commercial banks
have bigger balance sheets,&quot; says Art Penn, managing director at Bankers
Trust in New York. &quot;The worst-case scenario for them is that a bad
loan just goes on the balance sheet like any other.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Institutions which have taken the same steps as Chase towards one-stop shopping,
such as Credit Suisse, parent of CS First Boston, and NatWest Markets, which
bought M&amp;A boutique Gleacher &amp; Co last October, will be strong competition.
Each has heavy hitters in M&amp;A. But while the chequebooks may be big
enough to back deals, non-US banks often cannot move fast enough to clinch
them. <BR>
<BR>
Bill Harrison, head of wholesale banking at Chase, Lee's long-time boss
and mentor, points out that at $30 billion Chase has a bigger market capitalization
than Merrill, Goldman and Morgan Stanley combined. On the subject of competition
in one-stop shopping, Harrison is succinct: &quot;Capital is important,
and we have capital.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
So if the investment banks fail to stop Lee's capital-rich juggernaut, what
will? <BR>
<BR>
<B>One-stop shopping</B> <BR>
<BR>
Lee's record does not mean Chase will never suffer problem loans. But the
capital the institution has is sufficient to enable it to absorb losses,
and Lee makes his money by syndicating, not by holding big loans. On the
demand side, the investor base is becoming more diversified as prime-rate
funds and other non-bank institutions buy into syndications. Already a quarter
of all syndicated loans are sold to institutions in B, C and D tranches
at maturities from six to nine years. A broader investor base is less likely
to turn its back on Lee's loan product than is an homogenous group of commercial
banks, all subject to the same market or regulatory forces. <BR>
<BR>
Could Chase and Lee part company? Although he is said to have threatened
to join Citibank in 1994 unless given a more senior reporting relationship,
Lee has been given so much freedom to pursue one-stop shopping on behalf
of the bank that he could hardly be happier elsewhere. Says Harrison: &quot;Jimmy
likes our organization, he likes our strategic platform, and we compensate
him well. That's why he's still here.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Nor can analogies with Milken be stretched to the way Lee works. Milken
worked for himself under the aegis of Drexel; Lee is firmly a part of Chase.
Where Milken was secretive, Lee is open, so much so that a Chase public
relations man has to scramble around Lee's office covering non-public documents
when journalists arrive. Lee has none of the introverted quirks of Milken
either. He has a house in the New York banker belt near Greenwich, a wife
and three children, and avoids working at weekends so that he can take his
kids to play in their junior ice-hockey and football leagues. <BR>
<BR>
The threat to Lee is not from within Chase. Having engineered his position
over time, he has no natural successor there. Nor do his competitors have
the measure of him. His future depends on whether there really is an expansive
market for the concept he has identified as his own - one-stop shopping.
<BR>
<BR>
Listening to Lee describe the future, with Chase as the leading department
store bank purveying a gamut of corporate finance services, it is easy to
become enthused with the idea. What tends to be forgotten in all the hype
is that banks are the ones promoting the service - there's less indication
that companies or leveraged-buyout sponsors are demanding it. The man who
has made his name listening to clients is betting the bank on a vision not
all of them want, or need. One-stop shopping is not always the best answer.
Says Kevin Conway, a senior executive with Clayton Dubilier: &quot;While
there were many positives for us in Chase's role in Riverwood, in many instances
it may be more attractive to us to involve different groups for bank financing
and high yield. There are benefits to having two institutions review the
capital structure, the company and the credit, and give a favourable response.&quot;
The other disadvantage for leveraged buy-out firms is that one-stop shopping
violates the old Kohlberg Kravis Roberts rule of rewarding mandates to firms
which bring ideas. The fees KKR handed out in the 1980s were legendary,
but ensured that if bankers saw an opportunity their first call was to KKR.
In the Riverwood transaction, the fact that almost all the mandates were
given to Chase meant that Clayton Dubilier &amp; Rice returned few favours
for ideas brought to them which fell by the wayside. <BR>
<BR>
Similarly, corporates value the different ideas that firms with different
cultures bring them. &quot;We use a variety of different investment bankers,&quot;
says Bressler at Time Warner. &quot;That tells you that my philosophy is
that there is always an advantage to getting different bankers involved.
I don't think we will ever go to one firm for all of our services.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Whether or not Chase becomes the new type of bank he expects, Lee's pursuit
of power could be his undoing. As he strives for more market share, not
all of those clients who say Jimmy when they mean Chase are going to be
able to have him running their deals. For all the talent in the team, the
clients want Lee himself. Says Schwarzman: &quot;Jimmy is all over the deals.
He's a very good manager, but on deal day, it isn't delegated. The real
risk to [Chase] is that its market share is too big, and Jimmy himself can
no longer perform the role he always has. Then they start losing control
and do some stupid things.&quot;  
<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-78</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B022-20</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.96/wl.96.02/wl.96.02.8.html 194.217.137.48 19970114135954 text/html 33630
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:58:53 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 22 Oct 1996 14:16:16 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 33388
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine:March/April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00012200 Russian Federation -->
<!--00002000 Foreign Direct Investment -->
<!--00001700 Emerging Markets -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
March/April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra17.gif" alt="Area Profile">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
 
<H2>UZBEKISTAN </H2>
<H4>Uzbekistan has gone down its own path towards a free-market economy
at its own, slower, pace but the strategy appears to be working for the
isolated former Soviet republic. A tight money supply means that the som
should be fully convertible by the end of the year and foreign investors
who once did not have looked twice at the country are starting to favour
it as a regional base over its neighbours <BR>
<BR>
<A HREF="#overview">OVERVIEW</A><BR>
<BR>
<A HREF="#prime-minister">PRIME MINISTER</A><BR>
<BR>
<A HREF="#tourism">TOURISM</A></H4>
<HR WIDTH=60%>
<H3><A NAME="overview"></A>OPAQUE, BECOMING CLEAR </H3>
<B>Change might be halting, but for investors prepared to take things slowly
Uzbekistan offers a profitable future </B><BR>
<BR>
In a country where the lowest-paid worker takes home $3 a month, you might
wonder why Albert Boussonville is here in Uzbekistan trying to sell luxury
Mercedes-Benz saloons with a starting price of $30,000. But Boussonville,
a German entrepreneur with vast experience in the former Soviet Union, has
no such doubts. An engineer by profession, his approach to economics is
disarmingly frank. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;There are 22 million people in this country,&quot; he says in an interview
in his sparkling 16th floor suite in the tallest building in Tashkent. &quot;And
2 million here in the capital. Let us say just 10,000 of them can afford
a Mercedes: that is enough for us.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Boussonville, who came here in 1989 on a tip from an Uzbek he met in Russia,
is widely regarded as the most knowledgeable member of the 400-strong foreign
community in Tashkent. As a private businessman investing his own money
to the tune of &quot;millions of dollars&quot;, he is not typical of the
growing number of multinational giants seeking to establish a presence in
this central Asian state. <BR>
<BR>
But his wide grasp of the needs of a country slowly emerging from the inertia
of 73 years of communist rule within the Soviet empire, as well as his entrepreneurial
instincts, have made him a valuable ally of the Uzbekistan government as
it attempts to instil the idea of a market-based economy. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Moving up the list </B><BR>
<BR>
Despite its wealth of natural resources including cotton, gold, silk, oil
and natural gas, Uzbekistan was not a country high on the list of foreign
investors when it declared its independence in 1991. As Victor Chjen, deputy
prime minister and head of the state privatisation committee, notes wryly:
&quot;Most people could not find it on a map, let alone pronounce its name.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Ringed by snow-capped mountains and with 90% of its territory a burning
desert, Uzbekistan is six hours' flying time from Frankfurt and 3,000 km
from Moscow. But such isolation may be seen in retrospect as an advantage
as well as a handicap. When experts from the IMF, the World Bank and other
international bodies descended on the country in the early '90s they found
a government and public unwilling to adopt the economic shock therapy which
they felt had plunged other parts of the former Soviet Union into an economic
tailspin accompanied by ethnic and nationalist strife. <BR>
<BR>
The man chiefly credited with implementing Uzbekistan's strategy is its
president Islam Karimov, a former communist general secretary who won a
recorded 99% majority vote in elections last March, extending his term of
office to the year 2000. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We invented our own model of privatisation,&quot; says Victor Chjen.
&quot;It has some features similar to other states but we also proceeded
with specific measures which have no analogy elsewhere. We did not find
an answer at once and in the first years we were criticised. We were accused
of conservatism, but we simply wanted to find our own way.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Karimov himself has delivered a blunt summation of the perils inherent in
so-called shock therapy in a recent book. &quot;Experience of other countries
provides us with a number of examples when mass privatisation has practically
brought no desired results for the revival of the economy. It aggravated
the economic crisis, drove many enterprises to the verge of bankruptcy [and]
increased unemployment. No wonder that such privatisation was not welcomed
by most working people,&quot; he said. <BR>
<BR>
The president has enunciated a five-point agenda for economic change that
talks in terms of protecting the most vulnerable in society while at the
same time creating a free and open society in which economic progress is
to be paramount over politics. If that means the state must continue to
play a leading role in protecting vital areas of the economy for some time,
that is acceptable to him. Specifically, Karimov has rejected the notion
of voucher privatisation, arguing that distribution of state-owned assets
among all citizens, regardless of their contribution to society, would be
&quot;a distorted form of faceless socialist levelling. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;We rejected the idea of voucher privatisation from the very beginning,
although some foreign experts were very insistent abou imposing it on us.
We arrived at the definite conclusion that state property may be transformed
into other forms of ownership only through its sale to a new proprietor.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Battle of the som </B><BR>
<BR>
It was a tough stand to take during a period when traditional trade patterns
with the Soviet Union were collapsing, production of raw materials, food
and cotton were declining and consumer goods were scarce. Rampant inflation
and impossible conditions set by Moscow forced Uzbekistan to abandon participation
in the new rouble zone and create its own national currency, the som, in
1993. <BR>
<BR>
Finally, however, after a period of trial and error that foreign observers
found frustrating, the government felt it had a model it could live with.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Once we were convinced it could be successful, we moved quickly,&quot;
says Chjen. In fact, by 1993 the state had turned over its housing stock,
in many cases free of charge. Chjen, who as former minister of industry
was instrumental in creating the very first private enterprise in the country,
says that by the end of that year no fewer than 35,000 private enterprises
had been created: mostly small businesses, shops, farms and communal services.
<BR>
<BR>
In 1994, the government set about transforming the larger state enterprises
whose prosperity was vital to increasing exports, achieving self-sufficiency
in oil, gas and grain, building up foreign reserves and strengthening the
fledgling som. The new prime minister, Utkur Sultanov, says this latter
goal has been met with such success that he expects the som to be fully
convertible by the end of this year. Chjen provides other statistics that
he says underline the fact that Uzbekistan started 1996 as a full market
economy: 85% of all enterprises in the non-state sector produce 65% of GNP
and employ 65% of the working population. <BR>
<BR>
While some foreign observers challenge these statistics, arguing that continued
state control of some &quot;privatised&quot; enterprises defeats the purpose,
Chjen takes a pragmatic view: &quot;If it is possible to sell state property
to one individual we do so. If it is necessary to create a joint stock company,
we create one.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Chjen argues that the sheer volume of shares - more than 4,000 packages
have been offered - makes it unlikely that sufficient individual purchasers
are available. &quot;That is why the state retains some shares. It doesn't
mean the state wants to retain them, on the contrary all the shares are
offered through the [stock] exchange. If the controlling shares belong to
the state, it only means that we could not sell them. According to the legislation
foreign investors can buy 100% of the shares.&quot; Chjen stresses that
while direct subsidies to state enterprises have ended, the state continues
to try to &quot;create favourable conditions during the period of transformation&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
As an example of its willingness to do business, the government cites the
purchase of 51% of the assets of the Uzbek tobacco monopoly by BAT. The
British cigarette giant is implementing a five-year, $232 million programme
to upgrade the quality of tobacco products and will open a state-of-the-art
factory in Samarkand this year. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Foreign investment by decree </B><BR>
<BR>
The BAT deal, and other major foreign investments such as the Daewoo car
plant also due to start production this year, were made possible under specific
decrees issued by the president. Such decrees, of which there are a large
number, often anticipate formal legislation and while they have certainly
speeded up the process, major investors maintain batteries of lawyers whose
task is to determine a company's precise legal situation under changing
and sometimes confusing legislation. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;Doing business in Uzbekistan at this point in time is still not easy,&quot;
says Jim Rowlands-Rees, general director of BAT's operations in the country.
&quot;However, the government is taking positive steps to create an environment
for businesses to succeed. I would therefore urge potential foreign investors
to investigate the long-term opportunities that are available.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Foreign diplomats in Tashkent offer partial agreement. &quot;The people
who do best are the big companies who can afford to take a long-term view,&quot;
notes one. &quot;Medium-sized companies, whose participation in helping
to build small local enterprises is badly needed, tend to say it is too
risky. And it's very expensive to keep staff here,&quot; says one. <BR>
<BR>
He offers this advice to potential foreign investors: be unconventional,
be prepared to take risks, be optimistic, make contacts and make an effort
to speak the language. And you have to learn to put up with inconvenience
and discomfort. Having said that, the government genuinely does want to
be a player [in the international market].&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Catch-22 for small firms </B><BR>
<BR>
A major problem for business stems directly from the central bank's tight
control of the money supply in an effort to build the strength of the som,
currently trading in the range of 40 to 50 to the $1. Firms are allowed
to withdraw cash only to pay salaries. Even then, they must apply for this
well in advance. One enterprise was reportedly allowed $1 per month to meet
&quot;office expenses&quot;. Payment for goods and services must be paid
by direct bank transfer. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;While this did present difficulties at first, we have learned to live
with it,&quot; says BAT's Rowlands-Rees, noting however that the policy
&quot;has been instrumental in bringing inflation down to a few per cent
per month.&quot; The actual inflation rate in January was 3.2%, a far cry
from the 1,500% rates of the early '90s, and the government is confident
it will meet its target of no more than 20% for the whole of the year. <BR>
<BR>
Despite the justification for tight monetary policy, smaller enterprises
are often caught in a catch-22 situation when they look for funds to import
the equipment and machinery they need to upgrade their production. &quot;The
big people have a different deal,&quot; complains one entrepreneur. &quot;They
are founded by special decree that covers everything. I do not control my
own money, the bank controls it.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Would-be investors have a range of quibbles, mainly about the slowness of
bureaucracy at middle and lower levels to adapt to the free market mentality.
&quot;The country seems to function, but the bureaucracy is horrendous,&quot;
observes one foreign envoy. &quot;They say they are taking a slow path but
sometimes one wonders if it is not dead slow or even at a stop. The government
talks about empowerment - leaving decisions to others - but it keeps a tight
grasp on decision-making.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
It is a deficiency which the government has acknowledged it must correct
and the authorities are receiving technical assistance, mainly through the
EU's Tacis programme, worth an estimated $20 million a year. Both the IMF
and the World Bank, having overcome their initial doubts, have extended
millions of dollars in credit to the government. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;These institutions have accepted that we are right,&quot; says Chjen.
&quot;Despite some early misunderstandings we now understand each other
very well.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>New flows of international aid </B><BR>
<BR>
A further indicator of real progress, he says, is the establishment of four
main exchanges dealing in currency, commodities and raw materials, stocks
and shares and real estate. <BR>
<BR>
The EBRD has provided $60 million for the development of small and medium
enterprises. Dozens of applications for money have been received and are
judged on merit by the National Bank. Many applicants complain, however,
of delays and more than half the funds remain undisbursed. Says one applicant:
&quot;There are three separate departments at the bank, one to study your
business plan, another to check it out and a third to decide who gets credits.
It is a long process.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
To be fair, there is fault on both sides. To bring down inflation by mopping
up excess money in circulation, the government has permitted a wide range
of products to be imported, from Hershey bars to Absolut vodka. There are
rich pickings for foreign traders interested in a quick return, who do not
mind bending the rules. One foreign trader admits to getting his overseas
suppliers to forward deliberately inflated invoices in order to make his
profit look substantially smaller than it is. <BR>
<BR>
The government stipulates that local staff hired by foreign firms should
be paid in the national currency but since there is stiff competition for
good people, many are paid under-the-table in dollars. A secretary with
multilingual skills was recently poached by one foreign firm offering to
increase her wages from $250 to $400 a month. <BR>
<BR>
Such tactics are deplored by investors like Albert Boussonville, who are
in for the long haul. &quot;A lot of one-contract people come here, take
their money and that's it - especially in the beginning,&quot; he says.
&quot;We at Mercedes-Benz will invest more in this country. We see a big
future for Uzbekistan.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Indeed, the history of Boussonville's involvement in the country captures
the essence of Uzbekistan's transition. Under Stalin a substantial part
of the Soviet weapons-building industry was moved to Uzbekistan to safeguard
it from invading Nazis. Later, the government was among the first in the
CIS to launch a major conversion of armament factories. It took Boussonville
three years to negotiate, but after a joint venture was signed in 1991,
a former helicopter plant at Khorezm was converted into an assembly plant
for cars, jeeps, mini-buses, light and heavy trucks. <BR>
<BR>
Uzbekistan is one of the world's largest producers of fruit and vegetables
with a climate that permits at least two harvests a year. In the wake of
the Russian withdrawal and accompanying disruption of trade, as much as
70% of the harvest was left to rot in the fields. The Uzbekistan government,
desperate for alternative hard currency markets, was left with a broken-down
Russian transport fleet and few spare parts. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Transport could go far </B><BR>
<BR>
To date, Boussonville has supplied 200 heavy transport vehicles and soon
expects to supply a further 600. His company has also supplied 250 buses
for the Tashkent transit system and another 250 coaches to serve the rest
of the country. There are plans to go beyond the assembly of vehicles and
set up a joint venture which would produce buses and trucks with a high
local content, as high as 65%. This is the kind of high-tech industry on
which Karimov is staking his country's future. <BR>
<BR>
A major plank in the government's strategy is to lower its reliance on exported
raw materials and to develop finished products of a quality that can compete
worldwide. This is particularly true of cotton, Uzbekistan's major crop,
with some 1 million tonnes a year comprising 85% of the total being exported.
Karimov would like to increase the amount of cotton processed in Uzbekistan
to a minimum of 30%, a target that will require major investments in machinery
and equipment. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Chances of cotton liberalisation </B><BR>
<BR>
Foreign cotton traders, whose margins are wafer thin in a highly competitive
market, are studying with interest the government's pledge to reduce state
controls over cotton exports and eventually abolish them. But they are not
rushing to do deals with privatised producers. Three state companies currently
compete to deal with the traders and continue to handle the vast bulk of
the business. Nevertheless, all traders appear to agree that Uzbekistan
is the most reliable of all the cotton-producing countries in the region.
Stories are legion of alleged broken agreements and diverted shipments,
particularly in neighbouring Turkmenistan. <BR>
<BR>
The prospects for continuing political and economic stability, not to mention
a development of currently weak democratic institutions, appear to work
in Uzbekistan's favour as foreign investors compare the country's progress
with others. The rush of investors into Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan's giant neighbour
to the north, has dwindled to a trickle and many who had set up shop in
its capital Almaty, are now looking to Tashkent. Foreign embassies report
a doubling of inquiries during 1995 from potential investors. <BR>
<BR>
In a report for the London-based Royal Institute for Foreign Affairs at
Chatham House, author and commentator Anthony Hyman writes that many of
the new central Asian states &quot;have not been receptive to democracy...
Instead of multi-party democracy; one party rule remains the norm, although
a form of window-dressing has allowed certain small innocuous groups to
be registered as political parties.&quot; Hyman goes on to write: &quot;Many
of the republics have scant respect or even perhaps understanding of the
idea of freedom of expression, let alone a willingness to permit political
opponents to express criticisms on state-controlled television, radio or
press.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Indeed, the Uzbekistan government is sensitive to criticism: the national
media do not question its policies and any western correspondents who have
done so have not been invited back. It is no secret that any overt opposition
to the government is actively discouraged. But prime minister Sultanov takes
issue with criticism, arguing that western democratic institutions have
evolved over centuries while his country has had a mere five years. Karimov
himself insists in his book that &quot;the first steps have been made on
the road to a political multi-party system&quot; in elections held to the
Oliy Majlis or Supreme Assembly. He has also pledged himself to laws guaranteeing
human rights and freedoms but challengea the &quot;established opinion&quot;
that &quot;true democracy emerges out of political confrontation&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
Foreign diplomats are encouraged by a new trend: &quot;The government at
least has started talking about [human rights],&quot; says one, &quot;but
the picture is still, well, opaque.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
For entrepreneurs like Albert Boussonville, however, the picture is clear.
&quot;Uzbekistan is a rich country and stability is high. If you take some
time, take things slowly, you will get your money back. You must learn to
trust the country. It is one of the best countries in the eastern part of
the world.&quot; <BR><BR><HR WIDTH=60%>
<H3><A NAME="prime-minister"></A>THE RIGHT CONCLUSIONS </H3>
<B>In the first interview since his appointment, Utkur Sultanov speaks of
his hopes and fears for the country </B><BR>
<BR>
Utkur Sultanov, the new prime minister of Uzbekistan, says that in five
years of independence his country has made rapid strides towards establishing
a market economy, has gained the confidence of foreign investors and has
nudged an ailing economy back towards full health. <BR>
<BR>
In his first interview since he took office earlier this year, the 56-year-old
politician talks in confident tones about the success of his country's approach
to privatisation and the prospects for political and economic stability
in the greater central Asian region. The prime minister says that despite
criticisms in the west, Uzbekistan is committed to the development of a
multi-party democracy with guarantees of full human rights and the protection
of the most vulnerable in society from the traumas of economic transition.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;When we say we are trying to do something, we mean what we say,&quot;
he comments. &quot;To make it happen we have to have a stable foundation
and we think we have achieved the stability to do that.&quot; As an indicator
of restored financial fortunes, Sultanov says that more than $1.3 billion
was sold in foreign currency exchange auctions held in the capital Tashkent
during 1995. <BR>
<BR>
The prime minister is hopeful that the national currency, introduced just
three years ago when Uzbekistan left the Russian rouble zone, will be convertible
by the year end. &quot;I am sure we will be able to satisfy the demands
for convertibility in 1996. Increased exports have brought an increase in
currency incomes. The central bank has plenty of resources and we have the
support of the IMF and the World Bank.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Speaking of the &quot;major task&quot; of creating a market economy out
of the shattered remains of central planning, Sultanov says that President
Islam Karimov made a &quot;wise decision&quot; to adopt a cautious approach.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;We prepared a banking and financial system and we have chosen the
optimal fiscal policy,&quot; he says. &quot;We did the easy privatisations
to get an appetite for the further development of private property and to
establish the legislative groundwork. Now our main task is to apply this
legislation to practical life.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
By maintaining a tight monetary policy and concentrating on exports and
import substitution, the prime minister says Uzbekistan is developing its
economic independence &quot;without which true sovereignty cannot exist&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>A guarantor for safety in the region </B><BR>
<BR>
Despite earlier doubts about the privatisation model adopted by his country,
Sultanov says that &quot;there is consent in Europe, the US and Asia that
Uzbekistan is an attractive place for mutual cooperation. The experience
of the past four years has shown that business in Uzbekistan can be conducted
safely, calmly and confidently. The international community has been persuaded
that we have made a genuine transition to a market economy.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Quoting from an article in <I>Foreign Affairs</I> journal, the prime minister
says it had reached the &quot;right conclusions&quot; about Uzbekistan's
importance as a guarantor for security in the region and as an attractive
country in which to do business. Many observers have been &quot;impressed
and surprised&quot; at the republic's success in attracting the kind of
high-tech investments that ensure a secure future. Examples include the
US firm Newton Mining's investment in a high-tech project to extract gold
from mined ore and a car production factory opened this spring in partnership
with Daewoo of Korea. <BR>
<BR>
Sultanov reckons there have been misconceptions in the west about Uzbekistan's
novel approach to human rights and democracy but &quot;the speed of democratic
change in the republic is normal and optimal for a country of the post-Soviet
system.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
He says it is incorrect to say there are no opposition parties: &quot;We
have a multi-party parliament that includes factions which have their own
party principles. This institution is very young and is developing but we
think we are on the right path.&quot; Noting the existence of a parliamentary
commission on human rights, he adds: &quot;When I am asked about this, I
reply: 'There are no rights without responsibilities'.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Society must be organised according to appropriate principles and adopt
rules for living together, he says. Democratic countries in Europe and North
America had evolved over hundreds of years and in Uzbekistan &quot;we are
developing our level of political consciousness along with our social and
economic development.&quot; Critics who questioned the republic's commitment
to democracy three years earlier were now &quot;asking their questions a
little less sharply... Three years ago, people only assessed Uzbekistan
through reports in the mass media. Now the situation is different because
you can come here to see for yourself and make up your own mind.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The possible impact of extreme nationalist sentiments is a particular concern
in a region where borders were arbitrarily drawn by the former Soviet Union
and where populations live in areas which do not necessarily corresponding
to those borders. Thousands of Uzbeks, for example, are living in states
bordering Uzbekistan itself. But the prime minister says it is policy to
&quot;cancel this ethnic problem and avoid strife&quot;. For this reason,
he says, Uzbekistan maintains close contacts with its regional partners
in an effort to anticipate and solve problems before they happen. He dismisses
suggestions of a &quot;greater Uzbekistan&quot;, pointing out that Karimov
has repeatedly made clear that &quot;there is no question that existing
territory could be changed.&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Looking ahead to the turn of the century, Sultanov says: &quot;We can see
that by the end of the century Uzbekistan will again be the bridge between
Europe and Asia. It was true at the time of the Silk Road and it will be
true again. Uzbekistan will have a central role to play in the region.&quot;
<BR><BR><HR WIDTH=60%>
<H3><A NAME="tourism"></A>WELL MET BY MOONLIGHT </H3>
<B>Uzbekistan's fledgling tourism industry could become a crucial one as
government incentives kick in </B><BR>
<BR>
In June last year, President Islam Karimov ordered his ministers to proceed
urgently with a 12-point plan to boost foreign tourism to the landlocked
country of Uzbekistan and raise dramatically the meagre $10 million the
industry contributed to the treasury in 1995. <BR>
<BR>
Karimov demanded simpler customs regulations for tourists and special tax
incentives for newly established tourist enterprises. For foreigners setting
up joint-venture facilities, he declared a five-year exemption from taxes
on repatriated profits. Like most presidential decrees, it embodies a vision
that is somewhat ahead of the reality, but there is little doubt of the
serious intention to bring tourism in Uzbekistan up to an international
level. <BR>
<BR>
Foreign tourists are beginning to arrive in larger numbers: the figures
have grown from almost nothing in 1991 to around 100,000 last year and officials
predict that number will rise by half as much again this year. Germans and
Japanese, who arrived aboard 16 charter flights last year, are leading the
way. <BR>
<BR>
The attractions of this long-isolated central Asian state vary from mountain
skiing to exploring the ancient cities along the Great Silk Road. Indeed
Uzbekistan is cooperating with its neighbours to promote comprehensive tours
of the old Silk Road, following in the footsteps of Marco Polo and Tamerlaine.
<BR>
<BR>
A deterrent to foreign travellers so far has been the somewhat primitive
state-owned facilities but all that is beginning to change with the need
to develop sources of hard currency revenue. In the modern capital Tashkent,
rebuilt after the disastrous earthquake of 1966, major hotels have already
been sold to foreign investors and many are in the process of a much-needed
refurbishment. The recently opened Hotel Tata is a marble palace with flowing
fountains, five restaurants, satellite telephones and a fridge and television
in each room. At $122 a night it is a favourite of foreign businessmen,
who are sometimes taken aback at the English menu. Alongside such delicacies
as stuffed quail it offers indigenous dishes such as <I>lagman</I>, <I>plov</I>
and <I>bottch</I> - to be followed, perhaps, by the bizzarely named pastry
Intourist. <BR>
<BR>
Alisher Shamsiyev, chief of protocol at the Uzbekistan National Tourism
Company, boasts that in the Silk Road cities like Bokhara &quot;you can
find beautiful hotels, mostly now privately owned, with swimming pools and
health centres for as little as $50 per night. A year ago you could not
find such hotels.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
With privatisation the role of the Tourism Company is changing. It is getting
out of the business of running hotels and concentrating instead on co-ordinating
an overall strategy for the industry. The country is a member of leading
world travel organisations and is planning to open new offices this year
in London and New York. <BR>
<BR>
Still, old habits die hard. In the Soviet era it was necessary to apply
for a tourist visa for each different city and the rules remain confusing.
&quot;Under a decree, we have now managed to abolish the need for separate
visas,&quot; says Shamsiyev. This may be so, but business visitors travelling
to Tashkent should still check the validity of their visas if they intend
to venture outside the capital. They should also expect frequent stops as
the ubiquitous - and underpaid - traffic police often perform their duties
with excessive zeal. <BR>
<BR>
Otherwise, personal safety is not an issue in Uzbekistan. &quot;In Bokhara,
the old monuments are charming in the moonlight and you can walk there,
safe and unhindered. I travel abroad, including to CIS countries, and I
do not see any country or new state as safe as ours,&quot; says Shamsiyev.
<BR>
<BR>
Overseas telephone calls, except in the few satellite facilities, can be
time-consuming. The good news is that a massive upgrading of telecommunications
is under way. &quot;In 18 months at the most,&quot; says Shamsiyev, &quot;you
will be able to make calls to anywhere.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The fledgling airline, Uzbekistan Airways, has a surprising number of international
flights with destinations which include London, Manchester, Beijing, Kuala
Lumpur, Delhi and Karachi. Lufthansa flies from Frankfurt three times a
week. <BR>
<BR>
New arrivals at Tashkent airport will find it dingy and a little discomfiting
although it is being refurbished and there are plans for a new airport.
But first impressions often mislead and Uzbekistan remains a country of
great charm and beauty, moonlit or not.<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-79</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B016-176</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.04/em.96.04.5.html 194.217.137.48 19970114134207 text/html 44721
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:40:42 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 23 Oct 1996 11:00:51 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 44485
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: April 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: April 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00009200 Germany -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
April 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>EAST GERMANY</H3>
 
<H2>The Achilles heel of Europe </H2>
<H4>Why Achilles heel? Because the Bonn government - once the single-minded
champion of European economic union - is paralyzed by problems in its own
backyard. It has pumped billions of Deutschmarks and man-years of management
into its five new L&auml;nder, but they show little sign of surviving without
life-support. And Germany's slide into recession, in the west and the east,
could jeopardize an early move to European economic and monetary union.
David Shirreff reports </H4>
On the Potsdamer Platz, which was once a wasteland between east and west
Berlin, the contractors have made an inland sea. Cranes and barges shift
earth for the foundations of the biggest development site in Europe. Men
work below the dam, small and vulnerable as ants, separated from the wall
of water by a few inches of steel. <BR>
<BR>
For five years, much of east Germany has been a building site. At first
the building stimulated a boom in consumption and construction, but it failed
to spill over into productive sectors. Now the building continues grimly
in the teeth of recession in the east and west. The industrial base in the
east has collapsed; official unemployment is close to 20% (if you include
job creation and early retirement it's more like 40%). For the whole of
the country, the average unemployment rate is 12%. <BR>
In its present economic state, but lacking its eastern region, Germany would
be trying to revitalize growth rather than screw down spending. That's the
view of Heiner Flassbeck, head of forecasting at Deutsches Institut f&uuml;r
Wirtschaftsforschung (DIW) in Berlin. <BR>
<BR>
But Bonn still deludes itself that absorbing the former German Democratic
Republic (GDR) has meant no more than a slight course correction on the
path to a united Europe. It is ignoring the figures and the everyday reality
of joblessness and industrial collapse east of the river Elbe. Instead of
the sum of between Dm15 billion ($10 billion) and Dm20 billion that forecasters
once thought would be needed to turn the five eastern L&auml;nder around,
transfers are likely to continue at close to Dm200 billion a year (25% of
GDP) for the foreseeable future. <BR>
<BR>
East Germany's GDP growth, which began to lead west Germany out of recession
in 1991 and 1992, has stumbled. The most optimistic growth figure for 1996
is 4% - from a pathetically low base. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The government finds it difficult to accept that the catch-up in east
Germany has come to an end,&quot; Flassbeck says. He believes the entire
European economy is doomed to uncompetitiveness and stagnation unless EU
governments shake off their preoccupation with saving money. The stumbling
block is their blind faith in the criteria for economic convergence enshrined
in the 1992 Maastricht Treaty - that governments should strive towards a
maximum budget deficit of 3% of GDP, a gross government debt of 60% of GDP,
and stable inflation and exchange rates. &quot;Only the German government
can open the knot of the Maastricht criteria,&quot; says Flassbeck. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Black hole</B> <BR>
<BR>
Although the entire German economy has problems, the transformation of its
eastern L&auml;nder from communist state to market economy is a major drain
on resources and morale. According to figures from the Federal Statistical
Office, financial transfers from west to east totalled Dm132 billion in
1991, Dm156 billion in 1992 and Dm170 billion in 1993. By 1993 a quarter
of that was unemployment benefit. Transfers are now running at about Dm200
billion a year. <BR>
<BR>
But that doesn't include the cost of privatizing east Germany's commercial
companies by means of the privatization agency, the Treuhandanstalt, or
of upgrading facilities such as the post and railways. By the time the Treuhand
was dissolved at the end of 1994, it had run up debts of Dm204.6 billion,
of which all but Dm1.1 billion was issues of bonds, notes and <I>Schuldscheine</I>.
That liability has now passed to the Inherited Debt Payment Fund (<I>Erblastentilgungsfonds</I>
- ETF) the final resting place of all debt resulting from unification. The
ETF has total debt of Dm321 billion, which includes Dm75 billion for continuing
equalization payments to banks and foreign trade organizations. Servicing
the ETF debt is costing about Dm30 billion a year. <BR>
<BR>
Up to October last year, German development bank Kreditanstalt f&uuml;r
Wiederaufbau (KfW) had lent Dm91 billion into east Germany. Another development
bank, the Deutsche Ausgleichsbank, had lent Dm37 billion between 1990 and
1995<B>.</B> <BR>
<BR>
There seems no way for Germany to avoid making enormous transfers for the
foreseeable future. But there's no assurance yet that the money isn't vanishing
into a black hole. The average east German has been taken care of physically;
but spiritually, people see what's left of their country as a wasteland
dotted with expensive amenities. Said one east Berliner: &quot;Where there
used to be bookshops, admittedly with few books you'd want to read, there
are now banks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Only extreme optimists continue to describe the course of the past five
years as a success. As for the opinion of a former east German diplomat
lucky enough to have found work recently: &quot;I'd rather have become a
Czech.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>What went wrong?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Some economists argue that the exchange rate chosen for currency union -
Dm1 for two Ostmarks - was the killer. It effectively stoked huge consumption
in the first two years and brought east German wage levels, although lower
than west German ones, out of step with the productivity of most east German
companies. It also, arguably, loaded companies and municipalities with excessive
debt unrelated to the way they had previously borrowed money. Generous wage
agreements with the unions, inspired by the initial construction boom, brought
east German wages to within 20% or 30% of west German wages in five years
and they are due for parity by 1998. <BR>
<BR>
Flassbeck blames the privatization agency, the Treuhandanstalt: &quot;There
was no capital side in the wage negotiations. The economic institutes always
told the Treuhand [which at that stage owned most of east German industry]
'You have to engage in wage negotiations'. But the Treuhand always said:
'This is a market. Market forces will bring it to the right result'.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Suggestions for a reasonable exchange rate vary from 1:3 to 1:10. East German
companies engaged in foreign trade worked on a rate of 1:4.4. Companies
and municipalities importing goods and services in hard currency paid a
penal rate of 1:8. With the currency union at 1:2, the liabilities for these
goods and services went on to their opening Deutschmark balance sheets at
four times face value. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Speed was the essence</B> <BR>
<BR>
Much of the company debt was wiped out when the Treuhand recapitalized companies
for resale. But municipalities are still arguing about the level of their
debt. One strong point they make is that they were used by the authorities
in the GDR as a source of revenue which was scooped into central coffers,
or used for national rather than regional projects; they had little control
in a conventional sense over their assets and liabilities. <BR>
<BR>
A currency union at multiple exchange rates might have been more sensitive.
But speed was the essence of German reunification. A less generous exchange
rate on the asset side would have risked causing political turmoil and a
loss of skilled east German labour, as mass migration to the west continued.
Even so, two million of east Germany's brightest and best have moved to
west Germany to seek their fortunes. <BR>
<BR>
Few economists now criticize the Treuhand in principle for its summary privatization
of 20,000 east German companies. It seems to have done as good a job as
possible, bearing in mind the urgency, and the appalling commercial and
environmental state of most industries. &quot;We applied the four Ks - <I>Konzept</I>,
<I>Kompetenz</I>, <I>Kommitment</I> and <I>Kaufpreis</I>,<B> </B>[purchasing
price],&quot; says Heinrich Hornef, former Treuhand board member and president
of its successor, the Bundesanstalt f&uuml;r vereinigungsbedingte Sonderaufgaben
(BvS). <BR>
<BR>
Two or three cases have earned the Treuhand and the BvS bad publicity which
is out of proportion to the overall achievement, say most of those involved.
&quot;It's a fantastic performance,&quot; says Peter Rohrer a director at
Commerzbank in Berlin. &quot;When you see your 18-year-old child going off
into the world, you're sure you could have brought him up better. But actually,
I don't believe we <I>could</I> have done it better.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The BvS says it learned in January that part of Dm854 million in subsidies
for two shipyards on the Baltic had apparently been used to shore up the
financial difficulties of their west German buyer, Bremer Vulkan. &quot;We
feel we were deceived by the managing board of Bremer Vulkan, and we don't
know how much the auditor [Coopers &amp; Lybrand] knew what was going on
and how much was withheld from us,&quot; said Hornef on March 8, &quot;It
was the job of [Bremer Vulkan's] supervisory board to ask the questions.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
Cynics, however, see Bremer Vulkan as the tip of the iceberg: if the BvS/Treuhand
can't keep track of how Dm854 million of its money is spent, how much more
has it let slip through its fingers? <BR>
<BR>
The privatization process consisted mostly of agreeing to wipe out a company's
debts, in return for a business concept including a commitment to invest
new money and safeguard some jobs. Valuing the companies was extremely difficult.
As Treuhand gained experience it became cannier about extracting asset values.
But the rumour mill suggests that it let some prizes go too cheaply. One
was a shipyard in Rostock, bought by Kv&aelig;rner of Norway &quot;which
got a subsidy of Dm500 million for investing Dm1&quot;, says one critic.
Another was Jenoptik in Jena, the successor of the famous Carl Zeiss, now
run by the former prime minister of Baden-W&uuml;rttemberg, Lothar Sp&auml;th,
and owned by the Land of Th&uuml;ringen. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The only constraint the Treuhand had was a negative one: to lose only
Dm30 billion,&quot; says Flassbeck. &quot;It was clear the Treuhand would
always use up the whole deficit. This is something the government got wrong.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Value in doubt</B> <BR>
<BR>
The suspicion remains that the Treuhand didn't get full value for the east
German assets it sold. There were also the credit assets taken over from
east German institutions by west German banks, and the insurance assets
taken over by Allianz Versicherung in 1990 before the Treuhand was born,
at prices never fully disclosed. <BR>
<BR>
Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank and the Deutsche Handelsbank, Berlin (now part
of the Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais group), and other German banks, are still
negotiating with the banking supervisory office (Bundesaufsichtsamt f&uuml;r
das Kreditwesen - BAK) about the exact value of the assets they took over
when monetary union took place on July 1 1990. Deutsche and Dresdner took
over 65% and 35%, respectively, of the Deutsche Kreditbank, including loans
that it had made to east German companies. <BR>
<BR>
Where those loans were bad or doubtful, Deutsche and Dresdner, and other
inheritors of corporate claims, were able to replace them with guaranteed
notes (<I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I> - see box, page 51) from an equalization
fund (<I>Ausgleichsfonds W&auml;hrungsumstellung</I>) paying three-month
Fibor (the Frankfurt interbank offered rate). &quot;There was always a temptation
for any bank to make the gap [between loans and their performance] as big
as possible,&quot; says a Bundesbank source. <BR>
<BR>
The banks argue that after the companies fixed their opening balance sheets
at July 1 1990, everything thereafter was banking risk. It may be easy after
the event to say the assets were undervalued, but at the time no-one had
better price information. &quot;For the first half of that year [from July
1990], Deutsche and Dresdner were virtually running the business of the
Treuhand,&quot; says Wolfgang von Eckartsberg a director at Deutsche Bank
in Berlin. &quot;The Treuhand never paid us for this consultancy - our activity
in the first year was for much more than money.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In March 1990 at the Leipzig spring fair, Carl Hahn, then chairman of Volkswagen
(VW), protested that east Germany was &quot;not a private hunting-ground
for the Federal Republic&quot;. But for the first two years after unification
it seemed that way. <BR>
<BR>
Big German industry moved in, picked the prime sites in Berlin, and the
likely plums of east German enterprise. Moreover, many industries had their
own staff seconded to the Treuhand - not so much insider-dealing as dealers
on the inside. Potential foreign investors were daunted by the uncertainty
of ownership, environmental liability, even the language barrier. &quot;For
the first two years Hahn was wrong,&quot; says Horst Ahrens director at
Commerzbank in Leipzig. But then foreign investors began to show they had
more staying power than the Germans, he says. <BR>
<BR>
After German companies had advised closing down Saxony's environmentally
un-friendly, open-cast, lignite mining works, Mitteldeutsche Braunkohle,
a US-British consortium led by Morrison-Knudsen came in with an investment
concept. Investors in the few surviving industries in the region include
Dow Chemical, Elf Aquitaine, Enso-Gutzeit, and Air Liquide. <BR>
<BR>
Hahn recalls his 1990 remark, but insists that General Motors came in as
an investor from the start. But it wasn't long before west German industry,
including VW, was looking at bigger markets and cheaper labour beyond the
east German border. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Collapse of industry</B> <BR>
<BR>
West German companies were reluctant to create internal competition. The
ideal was to buy something in east Germany that simply expanded their markets
and production line without their &quot;eating their lunch&quot; - the so-called
<I>verl&auml;ngerte Werkbank</I> (extended workbench). But the upshot was
west German commuter management, minimal local employment, and corporate
tax paid to the Land back at headquarters. <BR>
<BR>
In the meantime, there was an almost total collapse of unwanted and inefficient
industry. The former eastern bloc markets imploded; quality and productivity
were too low to compete in western markets; and wage agreements were too
high to sustain. <BR>
<BR>
By contrast, there was a speculative boom in real estate. It began in 1991
and reached a peak at the end of 1992, but continued long enough to adorn
the big cities with swathes of empty offices and condominiums, whose rents
haven't yet fallen far enough to meet the almost non-existent demand. The
boom was fuelled by the consumption bubble immediately after unification
(deprived east Germans playing material catch-up). German real-estate investors
could claim a tax-break until the end of 1996, equivalent to half of the
investment they had made in construction or refurbishment in the east. <BR>
<BR>
There had been expectations of an economic miracle (<I>Wirtschaftswunder</I>)
like that experienced by West Germany after World War II; but they were
short-lived. It was simply a feeding frenzy. East German construction companies
flourished for a while, but later many died. The watershed was the spectacular
bankruptcy in 1994 of Frankfurt property king J&uuml;rgen Schneider, which
had repercussions in the east. Property credit, which had been getting tighter,
was totally squeezed, and now Maculan Holding of Austria, which had over-extended
itself in the east German construction sector, is facing bankruptcy. The
surviving east German builders, practically the only class of medium-sized
firm (<I>Mittelstand</I>), are now being undercut by west German rivals,
just as the grace period ends on their start-up credits from KfW. The west
German firms are better capitalized, better managed, have probably written
off the costs of their equipment already, and can employ cheap labour from
the UK and elsewhere in Europe. <BR>
<BR>
There was a political attempt to shore up private sector investment by persuading
the German banks to put Dm1 billion of equity capital into Treuhand companies.
The private banks' vehicle for this, the Beteiligungsgesellschaft Neuer
L&auml;nder (BNL) with funds of Dm400 million, has so far invested in 13
former Treuhand companies. But, with many shareholders (members of the private
banks' association) pulling in different directions, the exercise is acknowledged
to have had very <BR>
little impact. <BR>
<BR>
The Treuhand, from its expenditure of Dm200 billion, managed to claw back
only Dm37 billion in cash sales, although it measured its success rather
more in the commitments by buyers to invest a further Dm211 billion - commitments
are one thing, keeping them is another. The Treuhand spun off some companies,
that were regarded as being in need of restructuring before sale, into five
holding companies - <I>Management Kommanditgesellschaften </I>(MKGs). The
first MKG was due to have disposed of itself by the end of March. But grouping
these companies didn't help them stand on their own feet. <BR>
<BR>
The lack of a <I>Mittelstand</I> in east Germany is its biggest problem.
Germany's <I>Mittelstand </I>was the backbone of the post-war economic miracle,
but 40 years of communism took care of any such talents in the east.<I>
Mittelstand</I> firms have a more stabilizing effect locally than multinationals,
which tend to relocate when they see an advantage. But medium-size firms
won't grow in east Germany without better access to venture capital and
other forms of equity. Other east European countries have addressed this
problem with voucher privatizations, investment funds, and stock markets.
Voucher privatization was rejected for east Germany, because west Germans
would have wanted vouchers too. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Cultural desert</B> <BR>
<BR>
Germany lacks an equity culture, despite efforts to develop the Deutsche
B&ouml;rse and its regional stock exchanges. Only two east German companies
have been listed: Sachsenmilch (dairy products) and Sero Entsorgung (waste
recycling). Sachsenmilch, led by Deutsche Bank in 1991, was a disaster because
of mismanagement and alleged fraud over the costs of a huge dairy facility
near Dresden. Landesbank Sachsen Sero led a Dm3 million share issue for
Sero last year. <BR>
<BR>
Von Eckartsberg was seconded to Deutsche Bank Berlin in 1990 because of
his capital markets expertise. &quot;I was supposed to establish capital
markets business in this region,&quot; he says. &quot;If we apply normal
[listing] rules it's a way off. But with penny shares it could happen in
the next couple of years.&quot; Equity brokers aren't holding their breath.
A more realistic project could be privatizing some of the companies owned
by Berlin: water, gas and waste disposal. &quot;These could be brought to
the market,&quot; says von Eckartsberg. <BR>
<BR>
The record of venture capital is nearly as bad as share offerings. Only
about Dm750 million in venture capital had flowed into east Germany by the
end of 1995. Hans Damisch, chairman of the German Venture Capital Association
(BVK), says that only Dm350 million of the Dm641 million invested in east
Germany by his members to the end of 1995, was risk capital; the rest was
subsidized. Most German banks have small funds to back growing firms and
innovation, but their results so far vary from puny to negligible. &quot;We've
asked the government to lift capital gains tax and introduce other deregulatory
measures for venture capital,&quot; says Damisch. In February the finance
ministry in Bonn for the first time looked seriously at the venture capital
route. <BR>
<BR>
Foreign emerging market funds, which might have flocked to east Germany
because of the currency stability, have stayed away. The one listed fund
aimed at the territory, the East German Investment Trust (Egit), has been
dogged by ill-fortune. From March 1993, when its shareholders' funds were
valued at Dm157 million, it lost Dm45.5 million in asset value in the following
two years, according to its 1994-95<B> </B>annual report. In general it
had mixed results with its portfolio of 17 investments in real estate, construction
materials, paper processing and service industries. But its biggest losses
came from the failure of whitegoods manufacturer Foron to market some quite
sophisticated products, and from the liquidation of Dresdner Beton, a producer
of reinforced concrete elements. <BR>
<BR>
Egit's annual report complains in both cases of the Treuhand's failure to
honour commitments. Egit sympathizers note two flaws in the Egit approach.
First, they say the trust should have taken majority stakes in these companies,
so that it could control and change management quickly. Second, they suspect
that Egit managers fell foul of personalities in the Treuhand successor,
the BvS. &quot;If you're dealing with a middle manager in the BvS and he
doesn't like you, you're in big trouble. There are so many small things
he can do to obstruct,&quot; says one investor. &quot;The very best are
gone from the Treuhand.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But from Foron's viewpoint, neither of its big shareholders, Egit and Berliner
Bank subsidiary BKK Kapital-Management, has been prepared to invest more
money. Egit says the BvS hasn't made promised payments. Attempts to sell
Foron to Samsung or Turkey's Koc group, have failed. <BR>
<BR>
The Egit story is &quot;a disaster for the capital market&quot;, says Michael
Haarmann at Deutsche Handelsbank, Berlin, which started divesting its Egit
stake two years ago. &quot;The portfolio was essentially good, but there
was a management problem on both sides,&quot; Haarmann says. <BR>
<BR>
Advent International of Boston has done better financially, but has also
been frustrated on a playing field that was hardly level. With $4 billion
of assets under management worldwide, it has made four investments in east
Germany, a commitment of about Dm600 million in capital expenditure over
five years. Its plan is to add value then resell its assets. It has already
sold one investment, a brickworks, to an Australian buyer. It owns a cable
<BR>
television company, and a glassworks in Th&uuml;ringen. <BR>
<BR>
Advent's most spectacular purchase was rolling-stock maker Deutsche Waggonbau
(DWA), Berlin, an investment of about Dm250 million. &quot;DWA has found
a good haven in the Advent group,&quot; says Hornef of the BvS. Advent's
philosophy is to buy a controlling interest - it has 100% of DWA - and in
many cases to plan a stock offering after a few years. <BR>
<BR>
Despite its popularity with the BvS, Advent has been messed around by Germany's
old-boy network. The liquidator of Docter Optic, a maker of fine optical
lenses in Wetzlar, awarded the company to Advent on February 19. That was
after Advent had twice appealed against the liquidator's acceptance of a
lower bid elsewhere. But in March the contract was snatched away and awarded
to a German consortium, led by Rodenstock of Munich, backed by the German
auto industry, and BHF-Bank. BHF represented other banks in the creditors'
committee <I>and</I> was an equity participant in the Rodenstock syndicate.
<BR>
<BR>
&quot;Closing ranks like this isn't peculiar to Germany,&quot; says an investor
familiar with the case. &quot;Sometimes you have to decide not to fight
it. Advent could have saved themselves management time by pulling out sooner.&quot;
The same is probably true of Advent's attempts last year to buy Mansfelder
Kupfer, which finally went to a Belgian buyer. <BR>
<BR>
Advent doesn't have a quota for east Germany. Its investments there are
targets of its fully invested European Special Situations Fund, and of its
Global Private Equity Fund. So, if its efforts at new investment continue
to be frustrated, the single large-scale, foreign financial investor in
east Germany might simply look elsewhere. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Rays of hope</B> <BR>
<BR>
Where are the lights shining in east Germany's bleak economic landscape?
One obvious point is the city of Leipzig, which even in GDR times had an
international flavour, because of its bi-annual fair. More than any other
city, Leipzig seized opportunities as soon as the Berlin Wall was breached.
While other sites were encumbered with restitution claims, it bought up
much of the inner city and an airfield to the north that is now the location
of the new fairground, to be opened on April 12, and of Quelle's Dm1 billion
mail-order facility. It set up enterprise &quot;incubators&quot; in offices
owned by the city, the only such scheme in east Germany. <BR>
<BR>
Leipzig deliberately encouraged real-estate development, even though it
suspected the sector was oversold. &quot;The overhang was predictable,&quot;
says Michael Schimansky, acting director of Leipzig's Office for Economic
Promotion, &quot;but we didn't foresee the dimensions of it. However, what
would you rather have, crumbling ruins or nice buildings at very reasonable
rents?&quot; And these are just the projects that were completed; hundreds
more weren't implemented, says Schimansky. <BR>
<BR>
Michael Weiss, chairman of Landesbank Sachsen (Sachsen LB) in Leipzig, refers
to this as the <I>Schweinegalopp</I> (kangaroo hop) of development: &quot;It
was done deliberately, it was part of our policy to employ people in construction.
Of course we had hoped for more private investment, but we put something
in instead.&quot; By establishing attractive infrastructure, Leipzig hopes
to help investment decisions, says Schimansky. Direct subsidy, as it is
done by some cities, is officially against EC regulations. <BR>
<BR>
One Leipzig building site sports the graffito: &quot;Shed no tears for Dresden.&quot;
In 1990 Dresden won the battle with Leipzig to be capital of the Land of
Saxony, but it is losing the war to be its economic centre. &quot;Leipzig
was always the marketplace and Dresden was the <I>Residenz</I>,&quot; says
a proud Leipziger. Despite its beautiful baroque buildings, mostly restored
since the city was flattened in World War II, Dresden has no attractive
centre and little civic pride; an underlying reason, believe Leipzigers,
is that their city received West German television and VHF stations through
the 1970s and 1980s, while reception was impossible in Dresden. Dresdners
see Leipzig as little more than a soulless shopping centre. <BR>
<BR>
But Dresden has the same speculative brood of empty offices and condominiums.
Siemens has built its Microelectronics Center on the site of the old Russian
barracks on the outskirts of town, which will employ 1,500; but at the same
time it has closed the old Robotron computer works in the city centre, with
the loss of 2,500 jobs. <BR>
<BR>
The big problem in Dresden, Leipzig and the rest of east Germany, is the
lack of businesses in the Dm20 million to Dm100 million turnover range.
Compared with the number of employees in industry in 1989, now in Leipzig
there is only a tenth of that total. <BR>
<BR>
The best hope is that there are now some small beginnings. Last year there
were 170,000 business start-ups and 130,000 business closures in the east
- at least a net gain. &quot;We finance many more start-ups than we ever
dreamed of doing in the west,&quot; says Horst Klein director at Dresdner
Bank in Dresden. &quot;The ones who survive will be able to do business
anywhere.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The dream of some people in the east is that the region will become the
first deindustrialized area of Germany, with a superb infrastructure, where
small and medium-sized hi-tech and service companies flourish. &quot;The
focus of wealth has always been on the move in Germany,&quot; says Rohrer
at Commerzbank, &quot;from the Ruhr, to the south, then to Hamburg; perhaps
it will move next to the eastern L&auml;nder.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
But even the most bullish don't see that becoming a reality for at least
a decade. &quot;How long will it take to put in the capital stock?&quot;
asks Weiss at Sachsen LB. &quot; Perhaps 10 years, 15 years? I don't know.&quot;
He also notes that, beyond real estate, the investments will be &quot;very
capital-intensive, offering not much employment - a disadvantage&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
In the meantime the German taxpayer goes on paying, and the drag on Europe's
exit from recession continues. <BR>
<BR>
<HR>
<H3>Water under the bridge </H3>
German banks are still wrangling with the authorities about their 1994 balance
sheets, and the wrangling is likely to go on till 1999, according to an
exhausted official at the banking supervisory office, the Bundesaufsichtsamt
f&uuml;r das Kreditwesen (BAK) in Berlin. <BR>
<BR>
At issue is the amount of risk-free assets the banks claimed from the government
to offset the impossible-to-value loans they took over from east German
entities on July 1 1990. <BR>
<BR>
As the value - or generally the disastrous lack of value - in those loans
became clear, the banks were able to claim risk-free assets, <I>Ausgleichsforderungen
</I>(equalization claims), from an equalization fund which pays three-month
Fibor (Frankfurt interbank offered rate) with a maturity of 45 years. <BR>
<BR>
The equalization fund also made up the shortfall between assets and liabilities
created because some depositors' savings were exchanged at Dm1 to one Ostmark,
while all other assets and liabilities were exchanged at Dm1 to two Ostmarks.
The level of <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I> claimed by the banks stood at
Dm54 billion on July 1 1990, but rose to Dm84 billion by December 1992,
before settling to around Dm70 billion by the end of last year. <BR>
<BR>
The BAK is re-examining the banks' 1994 balance sheets and the profit and
loss on these loans, compared with the companies' opening balances at July
1 1990. The banks are understandably reluctant to make changes. A revision
of the 1994 balance sheet would require a new audit, new approval by the
supervisory board and a possible revision of the dividend already paid.
<BR>
<BR>
Last September the Federal Accounting Office (Bundesrechnungshof - BRH)
produced a confidential report which, according to the <I>Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung (faz)</I> and other German newspapers, accuses the government of
paying too much on the work-out of the old loans in east Germany, and of
selling too cheaply to west German counterparts the banking business of
the five east German banks. <BR>
<BR>
Moreover, in most cases there was no mechanism to claw back funds as the
valuation of the business became clearer, the report argues. The BRH won't
comment, apart from confirming that a report exists. According to the <I>faz</I>,
the report says that DG Bank assumed 15.5 billion Ostmarks of assets from
the Genossenschaftsbank Berlin, and that Berliner Bank assumed 11.5 billion
Ostmarks of assets from the Berliner Stadtbank. The purchase price didn't
take account of the fact that these assets were collateralized with government
<I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I>. The banks were paid too much to assume the
loans and they also benefitted from the hike in interest rates to market
levels. <BR>
<BR>
It would have been cheaper to assign the assets to the former State Bank
of the German Democratic Republic which had been absorbed by the government.
Instead, the west German banks assumed the loans and wrote them off, claiming
<I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I> totalling Dm98 billion. The BRH reportedly
says it doubts whether the banks had enough incentive to pursue payments
from the debtors when they could fall back on risk-free Libor assets from
the state. One German parliamentarian estimates the understatement of these
assets cost the state an extra Dm20 billion. <BR>
<BR>
The BRH also apparently faults the finance ministry for not preventing the
banks from receiving double interest payments of several billion Deutschmarks
from the old loans. This was possible because the privatization agency,
the Treuhandanstalt, was obliged to pay interest on loans to the companies
in its charge, according to the unification law. Since the banks had already
written off the loans, they also received interest payments on the <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I>
from the government's credit work-out fund (<I>Kreditabwicklungsfonds</I>).
<BR>
<BR>
The <I>faz</I> account says that according to the finance ministry, double-interest
payments to the Deutsche Kreditbank, the Deutsche Aussenhandelsbank and
the Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank totalling Dm4.2 billion were wrongly accounted
for. <BR>
<BR>
The west German banks are understandably reluctant to rake over the past.
They believe they did a good job, pumping liquidity into the east German
economy at a critical time and enabling a huge logistical exercise. But
the inherited debt payment fund, the <I>Erblastentilgungsfonds</I>, which
has now assumed all the Treuhand's liabilities and all those connected with
the <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I>, is anxious to reduce its burden. The bank
supervisor, the BAK, is charged with reconciling bank claims on <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I>
at the currency conversion date of July 1 1990, and the claims on their
balance sheets on December 31 1994. <BR>
<BR>
The Dm Balance Sheet Law of 1990 allowed all companies and banks to correct
balance sheets retrospectively up to the end of 1994. &quot;The big banks
almost doubled their <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I> in the last five years,&quot;
says a BAK source. &quot;In other cases, where the Treuhand took over liabilities
of company, they have significantly reduced. And property that was encumbered
has passed to the banks.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
In some cases the BAK has actually raised a bank's level of <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I>.
&quot;This is because the banks have booked the social costs of reducing
personnel into their current account instead of the capital account,&quot;
the source says. &quot;But in general we're concerned with the level of
claims being too high, not too low.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
As the banks experienced it, says one banker: &quot;The readiness of the
BAK and the auditors to recognize the <I>Ausgleichsforderungen </I>diminished
significantly in 1993 and 1994.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The justice ministry official who designed the law, Herbert Biener, believes
the system of <I>Ausgleichsforderungen</I> may have been costly &quot;but
it was necessary. Otherwise the risk of banks losing their capital would
have been too high&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
But the banks question the bean-counting attitude of the Bundesrechnungshof.
&quot;Ask the BRH who else there was to buy the [east German] banks at the
time,&quot; says Wolfgang von Eckartsberg, a director at Deutsche Bank.
<BR>
<BR>
And a banker in Dresden comes out fighting: &quot;The BRH are a bunch of
civil servants. What on earth would have happened if <I>they</I> had been
around in 1991 and 1992?&quot; <B><I>- DS<BR>
<BR>
</I></B><HR>
<H3>Real-estate roller-coaster </H3>
Franz von Kunowski used to trade derivatives at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt.
Now he has a real estate company in Dresden. <BR>
<BR>
He was so taken with the eastern way of life that he bought two Trabbis
(the Trabant car that east Germans used to buy for 13,000 Ostmarks after
being on a waiting list for 13 to 15 years). <BR>
<BR>
The first, a two-cylinder beauty in perfect working order, cost him Dm80.
The second, a four-cylinder version built after unification, was a little
more expensive, and it scared the hell out of him - the engine was too powerful
for the brakes and the chassis. He's has now got rid of both vehicles. <BR>
<BR>
Kunowski prefers an Opel as a less conspicuous runabout. He has eight apartment
buildings dotted around Dresden. When he spots a bargain he buys another
piece of real estate. He's been amused to find prices coming down to the
level he was prepared to pay some months ago. <BR>
<BR>
His strategy, he says, is to refurbish the houses, but only to a standard
the tenants can pay for - east Germans aren't used to paying high rents
and many have had to lower their sights since the first flush of consumerism
in 1990-91 when their savings were converted to Deutschmarks. <BR>
<BR>
High-cost condominiums whose rents rocketed to Dm25 a square metre and are
now back to Dm20, stand empty, while Kunowski's modest town houses are stuffed
with tenants. Office rents also peaked at around Dm30 a square metre but
now &quot;even at Dm11 a square metre there's sometimes no demand&quot;,
Kunowski says. He knows the market is bad because the banks have recently
been calling to lend him, Kunowski, money. That never happened when he most
needed it. <BR>
<BR>
As we take the Grossenhainer Strasse towards Schloss Moritzburg we see the
terrible effect of Dresden's property bubble. First a Dm500 million development
on 90 hectares of land reclaimed and then resold by the Krumm family, which
retains its fine family house. The bulldozers are working round the clock,
throwing up more shops and offices where there is already a glut. <BR>
<BR>
We pass the green-painted <I>Jugendstil</I> building of Jehmlich, Dresden's
famous organ-builder, still just alive. Beside these relics are signboards
advertising projects for office buildings and condominiums - but those which
are built stand empty, others will never be built. <BR>
<BR>
On one desolate site is the sign EVDR Bahn Consult, and the picture of a
fine architect's drawing &quot;to be ready by the end of 1995&quot;. Not
a single brick has been laid, and it's already March 1996. <BR>
<BR>
Here is a nearly completed condominium - Wohn-Park August der Starke. The
developer hasn't let any of it but is planning to start another condo on
the other side of the road. Beyond it, an old malt warehouse turned into
a shopping mall. &quot;This is a low-income area,&quot; says Kunowski. <BR>
<BR>
One of his 19th-century apartment buildings stands nearby, or rather half
of it; the other half, encumbered by ownership litigation, is boarded up
and crumbling. &quot;It's gone too far to buy and restore,&quot; he says.
Next, the toy factory, which is idle; plans to develop the site have come
to nothing. <BR>
<BR>
The big developers in Dresden are Grundinvest, run by the son of a former
Deutsche Bank board member, and the noble estate of Thurn &amp; Taxis. The
construction boom was fuelled by the <I>F&ouml;rdergebietgesetz</I> (the
law for areas of special development) which allowed German investors to
write off 50% of their additional investment beyond the purchase price.
<BR>
<BR>
At the peak, condos were selling for Dm5,500 a square metre, now the price
is back to between Dm3,000 and Dm3,500. &quot;This was providing jobs, but
it was sponsoring private consumption, not factories,&quot; says Kunowski.
<BR>
<BR>
His friend Metzner, who grew big on the boom, is a victim of that squeeze.
He's a builder whose workforce expanded to 50 people, and for an east German
manager he did well. He'd had 10 years' experience before 1989, moonlighting
by building private houses, a second profession smiled on by the authorities.
<BR>
<BR>
In 1992-93 he turned over enough work to buy a large town house. The bank
loved his cashflow and his business plan. But then business got tougher
and contracts with clients grew thicker. &quot;In the old days,&quot; says
Metzner, &quot;your word was your bond.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Today Metzner is careful to turn down the biggest jobs and diversify his
risks, by working for five or six smaller clients and never being a subcontractor
(a sure way not to get paid). In 1995 the bank got tough and came to inspect
his house as collateral. &quot;They'd never done that before,&quot; he says,
&quot;I've a good mind to change banks. I'm not satisfied with their service.
Every time I go there I see a different person.&quot; This happens to be
Dresdner Bank. <BR>
<BR>
But Horst Ahrens at Commerzbank in Leipzig has little sympathy for people
like Metzner and every sympathy for Dresdner Bank. &quot;These people are
under-capitalized. They're trying to run a Dm3 million turnover business
on Dm50,000 of capital. When they should have been building up reserves
they were probably taking out another loan to build themselves a nice private
house. We were lenient on them in the good times, but now it's 'business
as usual' like it is in west Germany.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Getting started on the real-estate trail, without capital, is a test of
ingenuity. Mario, a former officer in the East German Nationale Volksarmee,
based in the Baltic port of Rostock, took redundancy in 1990 and joined
the branch of a west German computer firm as a salesman. After two years
he quit, having saved enough with his friend Karsten to buy a five-storey
house in downtown Rostock. Living in low-rent apartments and drawing unemployment
benefit, the two friends and their wives worked day and night for a year-and-a-half
converting the house into six apartments. They saw the value of the house
decline as real estate prices plummeted and they feared they would have
to sell to cut their losses. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The worst thing that could have happened to us,&quot; says Mario,
&quot;would have been that the labour office put us on to a job-creation
scheme, to sweep the streets or something.&quot; By March, five of the apartments
were ready and occupied by tenants. &quot;So much blood, sweat and tears
went into this house we decided not to sell,&quot; says Mario's wife Antje,
a &quot;recession-proof&quot; assistant pharmacist. The rents are now covering
the cost of the bank loan and the building is paying for itself. <BR>
<BR>
The sixth apartment, on the ground floor, is Mario and Karsten's real-estate
bureau. They're on the way to their first Dm1 million. <B><I>- DS </I></B><<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-80</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B023-298</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/worldlink/wl.95/wl.95.05/wl.95.05.5.html 194.217.137.48 19970114140717 text/html 36511
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:06:12 GMT
Last-modified: Tue, 22 Oct 1996 16:24:50 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 36262
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1995
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: World Link Magazine: September/October 1995
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00001600 Economics -->
<!--00002000 Foreign Direct Investment -->
<!--00001700 Emerging Markets -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>
<font size=3>
<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban8.gif" alt="World Link Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September/October 1995
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<H2>WORLD COMPETITIVENESS
DEBATE </H2>
In its March/April 1994 issue, <I>Foreign Affairs</I> published an article
by Paul Krugman entitled &quot;Competitiveness: A Dangerous Obsession&quot;.
Krugman challenged the proposition that zero-sum economic competition between
nations had replaced the Cold War as the defining struggle of our age. His
article provoked enough criticism to fill literally a whole book -
<I>Competitiveness, an international economics reader </I>- in a debate
which has brought the issue into the public arena. <BR>
<BR>
Essentially, Krugman argued that nations do not &quot;in any meaningful
sense&quot; compete with each other and there is no solid empirical evidence
to conclude that competition from developing countries has significantly
contributed to the economic problems of rich ones: to base policy on this
assumption is potentially dangerous. <BR>
<BR>
In addition to targeting US politicians who used competitiveness to justify
everything from trade sanctions to health care policies, he criticised academics
adopting the same vocabulary to justify other ends, such as raising the
rate of domestic saving and investment. <BR>
<BR>
Krugman's view has been backed up by various economists. Rudolf Scharping
of Germany's Social Democratic Party welcomed the article if it led to &quot;a
realisation among political decision-makers that defining countries primarily
as economic competitors is a mistake&quot;. However, opposition was surprisingly
virulent and broad-based. <BR>
<BR>
Many challenged his claims about the &quot;careless arithmetic&quot; of
competitiveness reports with questions about his own use of statistics.
Others pointed out that any economic theory is liable to be appropriated
by politicians. Berkeley's Stephen Cohen said that competitiveness was a
more subtle framework for analysing the health of an economy than Krugman's
criteria - domestic factor productivity. The consensus was that international
competition does have an impact on living standards, even if the effect
is small relative to domestic factors. <BR>
<BR>
The publication of last September's <I>World Competitiveness Report</I>
provided ammunition for both sides. Krugman was critical of the report's
findings, especially its warnings of doom for uncompetitive economies. This
was precisely the type of analysis which he felt would lead to dangerous
choices being made by policymakers. On the other side, Jeffrey Sachs was
among those who cited the results as evidence that competitiveness was a
relevant concept for international economics. They continued the debate
at this year's World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, in a spirit of mutual
professional respect which made their differences seem less stark. <BR>
<BR>
Sachs has been one of the leading proponents of the view that international
competition, especially from developing countries, has lowered living standards
in rich countries and that at least some of the fall in real wages in the
'80s was due to an increase in this competition. <BR>
<BR>
Since Davos the debate has continued. In two further articles in <I>Foreign
Affairs</I> Krugman compared the growth of the so-called miracle economies
of east Asia to the pre-war growth of the Soviet Union. While most have
attributed east Asia's success and the Soviet Union's failure to the efficiency
of the east Asian economies and the utter inefficiency of the centrally
planned economies, Krugman argues that the output growth in Asian economies
had been fed by a huge growth in inputs, notably capital investment, education
and technology. These countries faced a Soviet-style collapse if the diminishing
returns of input growth were not compensated for by productivity growth,
he argued. Once again, the response was swift. <BR>
<BR>
Finally, this summer, Krugman analysed the implications of the Mexican crisis
under the title &quot;Dutch Tulips and Emerging Markets&quot;. He argued
that free markets and sound money as keys to economic development were at
best premature, and that the costs of protectionism were lower than some
claimed: &quot;There is a dirty little secret in international trade analysis.
The measurable costs of protectionist policies... are not all that large.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
In the pages that follow, Krugman and Sachs aim to take the debate further.
<BR><BR><HR width=60%>
<H3>PAUL KRUGMAN </H3>
<H4>REAL MEN DON'T EAT QUICHE </H4>
My role in this debate is ironic: I have been asked to contribute an essay
to <I>World Link,</I> magazine of the World Economic Forum which co-produces
the <I>World Competitiveness Report, </I>precisely because I have become
the best-known critic of the whole concept of competitiveness. In effect,
I am here because I have argued that the publication should not exist in
its present form; that it rests, right down to its title, on a misconceived
notion of what the global economy is all about. In any case, this essay
offers me an opportunity to do two things: to review what I regard as the
most important real issue facing the world economy and then to ask what,
if anything, the concept of &quot;competitiveness&quot; adds to our understanding
of that issue, in the report and elsewhere. Let me begin with the straight
economic analysis. <BR>
<BR>
<B>The big issue: north-south trade </B><BR>
<BR>
Last year the <I>World Competitiveness Report </I>made headlines by demoting
Japan from its usual top status to third place: now it has fallen to fourth.
Like most economists, I regard the report's competitiveness index as meaningless
if viewed as an indicator of future economic performance, but it can sometimes
be a useful indicator of what the conference circuit is worried about. In
this case, the revealing observation is that both the second and third places
are now held by developing countries. In other words, influential people
have stopped worrying about the supposed head-<BR>
to-head struggle among advanced countries and are now worrying instead about
competition from <BR>
low-wage nations. <BR>
<BR>
This shift in focus is appropriate, even if much of what is said about the
impact of the newly industrialising economies is naively misconceived. Over
the past two decades the exports of manufactured goods from developing countries
have grown from negligible levels to about 2% of the gross domestic product
of advanced countries. This represents a qualitative change in the pattern
of world trade. What difference does it make and should the west be worried?
<BR>
<BR>
This issue can be separated into two quite distinct questions. First, we
can ask whether it is reasonable to worry that the growth of newly industrialising
economies will reduce the overall <I>level</I> of real income in advanced
nations. Second, we can ask whether growing north-south trade has posed
or will pose problems for the <I>distribution</I> of income in the north.
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Southern growth and northern income </B><BR>
<BR>
How does economic growth in other countries affect my country's prosperity?
The answer is that the effect can go either way: growth abroad may either
raise or lower real income at home. But classical analysis says more than
this: it identifies the channels through which foreign growth can hurt your
economy. <BR>
<BR>
One channel is via your terms of trade, the ratio of your export to your
import prices. Under certain circumstances - specifically, if growth
in emerging markets is biased toward goods which the advanced nations currently
export - Third World growth can drive down the prices of advanced-country
exports compared with the prices of advanced-country imports, and therefore
reduce western real income. People who worry about how western nations can
compete with all those low-cost producers in Asia are, whether they know
it or not, worrying about the impact of Asian growth on the west's terms
of trade. <BR>
<BR>
But we need not dwell on this possibility. The simple fact is that the terms
of trade of advanced nations as a group have not deteriorated at all over
the past 20 years. Nor is it at all likely that such a deterioration will
become a major concern in the future. The reason is that the adverse impact
of a given decline in the terms of trade on real income depends on the share
of trade in income: if imports are only 10% of GDP, then a 1% deterioration
in the terms of trade will reduce real income by only 0.1%. Now trade with
newly industrialising countries, despite its rapid recent growth, is still
only about 2% of the combined GDP of the advanced nations. That means that
even a huge deterioration in the terms of that trade would reduce real income
in the north by only 1% or 2%. <BR>
<BR>
The other channel through which growth abroad can reduce real income at
home is far more subtle. If increased trade displaces your economy from
especially desirable sectors - desirable because they pay above-normal
wages, because they yield valuable technological spillovers and so on -
then that growth can hurt you even if your terms of trade do not deteriorate.
<BR>
<BR>
This is a potentially serious concern in analyses of trade <I>among</I>
advanced economies, although recent empirical studies suggest that as a
quantitative matter such concerns may be minor. In any case, however, it
is hard to argue that growing north-south trade displaces northern resources
from high-wage or high-tech industries. On the contrary, the adverse impact
falls mainly on industries like clothing, which pay comparatively low wages,
employ relatively few skilled workers, and are not at the technological
leading edge. Northern high-tech industries are <I>larger</I> than they
would be if newly industrialising nations were not providing them with new
markets. <BR>
<BR>
Essentially, the concern that rising productivity in newly industrialising
countries poses a threat to the overall real incomes of advanced nations
can be rejected flatly, not on <I>a priori</I> grounds, but on the basis
of the evidence. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Distributional concerns </B><BR>
<BR>
The fear that globalisation will exacerbate income inequality <I>within</I>
the advanced nations - that it will benefit a class of well-paid symbolic
analysts but drive down the wages of ordinary workers to Third World levels
- can be justified far better, both theoretically and empirically.
<BR>
<BR>
As in the case of the impact of foreign growth on domestic income, the effect
of international trade on income distribution is a classic issue in international
economics. The possibility that trade may reduce the real incomes of large
groups even when it raises overall national income has been a standard part
of textbooks since before World War II; the possibility that international
trade will equalise the wages of workers of equivalent skill, no matter
where they reside, was analysed by Paul Samuelson nearly 50 years ago. It
is therefore somewhat mysterious that some would-be experts think the new
importance of this issue is somehow a challenge to conventional economics,
but perhaps they are simply unfamiliar with the field. <BR>
<BR>
On the face of things, it seems a highly plausible hypothesis that growing
north-south trade could have a significant impact on the distribution of
income in advanced countries. Theory tells us that when a region with an
abundance of skilled labour opens trade with a region abundant in less-skilled
workers, we may expect the real wages of the unskilled workers in the advanced
region to fall, through a process of factor price equalisation. In fact,
the inequality of earnings in advanced countries has been increasing, especially
in the US, so it seems reasonable to blame growing inequality on trade.
<BR>
<BR>
Recent research, however, suggests that while there may be some link between
growing north-south trade and rising inequality, trade is not the main story.
The contrary evidence takes four forms. <BR>
<BR>
First, if trade leads to factor price equalisation, it must do so via well-understood
channels. The relative price of skill-intensive products must rise and the
industrial mix of the advanced nation must shift toward those skill-intensive
goods. But recent studies have found, at best, very weak evidence of these
shifts. The tell-tale signs of a trade-driven increase in inequality are
missing. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Modest trade volume </B><BR>
<BR>
Second, it is difficult to reconcile a story in which trade leads to large
changes in income distribution with the relatively modest volume of actual
north-south trade. Remember that the OECD's imports of manufactured goods
from newly industrialising countries are still less than 2% of its combined
GDP. It is sometimes argued that by exporting skill-intensive products and
importing labour-intensive goods, advanced countries are in effect exporting
skilled and importing unskilled labour. This then raises the point that
any change in labour supplies resulting from trade cannot be very large
if the value of trade itself is not very large. Admittedly, this factor
content approach has some known technical problems. The alternative approach
is to try to simulate the impact of growing trade using an explicit economic
model. But even this exercise finds that it is hard to reconcile large distributional
impacts with small trade volumes. <BR>
<BR>
Third, if growing trade were the main source of increased inequality in
advanced nations, one ought to observe the opposite tendency in low-wage
nations. That is, one should find a dramatic trend toward greater <I>equality</I>
of income distribution in newly industrialising countries. There is no sign
of such a trend; indeed, in China and Latin America the trend seems to be
quite the reverse. In other words, the evidence suggests a common tendency
toward increased inequality rather than a tendency for wages of skilled
workers to rise in the north but fall in the south. <BR>
<BR>
Finally, the actual pattern of growing income inequality in advanced nations
is hard to explain in terms of international trade. While there has been
a rise in the wage differential associated with advanced education, the
bulk of the increased dispersion of wages has resulted from growing disparities
in the incomes of workers with similar skills. Disparities have increased
markedly even within professions which face no international competition,
such as dentists. <BR>
<BR>
The detailed evidence on growing inequality, then, is hard to make sense
of in terms of a trade-driven story; it seems most consistent with explanations
that stress internal forces, such as changing technology and perhaps a change
in social norms. This does not mean that trade has had no effect on income
distribution: growing north-south trade may have widened the wage differential
associated with university education by about 3%. But an impact of this
size would still give trade a very secondary role in the massive recent
increase in inequality. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What About Competitiveness? </B><BR>
<BR>
Readers may have noticed something peculiar about the preceding discussion:
it made no use at all of the word &quot;competitiveness&quot;. This was
not a deliberate stunt: there was simply no reason to use it. Nobody seems
to be quite sure who introduced the concept of national economic competitiveness.
What is clear is that as a cultural artefact, the concept has been a tremendous
success. <BR>
<BR>
It has become an unquestioned assumption in some circles that international
trade not only can but must be discussed essentially in terms of competition
between countries. Many publications, including of course the IMD/World
Economic Forum's own report, take it for granted that prosperity in the
modern world depends on being competitive with other nations. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Competitiveness is bad economics</B> <BR>
<BR>
Last year I shocked many people by arguing that while the concept of competitiveness
may make for good rhetoric, it is bad economics. My claims were widely regarded
as deeply iconoclastic. They certainly threatened some established interests:
after all, what is one to do with a prestigious publication based on the
term if it turns out that &quot;competitiveness&quot; is at best a meaningless
buzzword, at worst a dangerously misguided view about how world trade works?
But in fact serious researchers in international economics have never found
competitiveness to be a useful concept. <BR>
<BR>
Here is an interesting statistic: I have on my bookshelf six of the leading
textbooks in international economics. How many entries for &quot;competitiveness&quot;
do those books have in their indexes? The answer is: none. Real men don't
eat quiche, and real economists don't talk about competitiveness. <BR>
<BR>
The appeal of the idea of competitiveness is obvious. It is a tremendously
evocative image: countries are like corporations struggling for market share,
and what one country wins some other nation loses. Or perhaps nations are
in a race: if you do not win, or at least get placed near the top, you don't
get any prize money. For politicians who want to mobilise their supporters,
for businessmen who want governments to provide pro-business policies and
for authors who want to make economics sound exciting, the image is perfect.
The only problem is that it is wrong: countries are not like corporations;
world trade is not a game in which only the best take home prizes. <BR>
<BR>
Are the newly industrialising nations competing with advanced countries?
Not necessarily, and to frame the discussion of their performance in terms
of competitiveness is not only to prejudge the issue but to do so wrongly.
The idea that NIE growth (Newly Industrialising Economies) has reduced the
real income of advanced nations can be flatly rejected on the basis of the
available evidence. <BR>
<BR>
Still, does the rhetoric of competitiveness do any harm? Yes, for two reasons.
First, it tempts people into believing that international trade really is
a war in which those who do not win actually lose. One cannot give a better
example than last year's <I>World Competitiveness Report</I>, which offered
a grim vision of the future. It talks of advanced countries whose prosperity
is threatened by the rising productivity of low-wage nations, to such an
extent that &quot;the raison d'&ecirc;tre of many countries is at stake&quot;.
The endorsement of this vision, simultaneously apocalyptic and naive, by
a prestigious organisation did much to strengthen the case of virulent opponents
of free trade like Ross Perot and James Goldsmith. Admittedly, this year
the same authors deny that they ever said world trade is a zero-sum game;
but I was surely not the only reader who was fooled. <BR>
<BR>
Moreover, the attempt to squeeze economic analysis into a competitiveness
framework can seriously distort one's view of economic issues. Consider
the concerns of the introductory essay in this year's report. The authors
argue that any attempt to maintain social cohesion by limiting wage differentials,
providing a social safety net and so on has economic costs which create
a painful tradeoff. Fair enough: the overwhelming majority of economists
would agree. In the report, however, the discussion is linked to a distinction
between proximity industries - what economists call nontraded goods
and services - and those that sell on world markets. The implication
seems to be that the tradeoff between equity and efficiency is something
that arises only in the industries that must compete internationally. But
that is wrong both in principle and in practice. In principle, for example,
an attempt to enforce high wages for less-skilled workers would lead to
unemployment even in an economy that did no international trade. In practice,
what does one see if one compares the performance of Europe with that of
the US, with its good record on job creation but plunging wages for low-skill
workers? The big difference, it turns out, is in the creation of low-paid
service jobs in sectors like retail trade - that is, precisely in the
proximity industries. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Distributional concerns </B><BR>
<BR>
Last year, the authors of the <I>World Competitiveness Report </I>got carried
away with rhetoric and made assertions that were sweeping, naive, and dangerously
wrong. This year they have been more cautious, but the attempt to shoehorn
their discussion into a framework that lets them talk about competitiveness
has nonetheless led them into basic misconceptions. <BR>
<BR>
For the issues I have discussed in this essay, which are the same issues
that have preoccupied the report for the last two years, the concept of
national competitiveness is not helpful and may be a positive hindrance.
<BR>
<BR>
But then, I ask myself, for which issues is the concept helpful? What questions
can usefully be answered by appealing to the indices of competitiveness
that occupy most of this volume? <BR>
<BR>
None that I can think of. <BR><BR><HR width=60%>
<H3>JEFFREY SACHS </H3>
<H4>KEEP BABY IN THE BATH WATER</H4>
Almost all countries and large companies now measure their performance by
the standard of world competitiveness. As a result, rankings such as those
unveiled each year in the <I>World Competitiveness Report</I> (WCR), receive
widespread interest. While definitions and measurements remain imprecise,
the WCR and related studies help to account for the differences in national
economic performance and draw attention to the key economic policies and
structural variables such as internationalisation, market flexibility, innovation
and macroeconomic stability that play a role in determining the success
or failure of economies. <BR>
<BR>
There are at least three reasons for the explosion of interest in world
competitiveness in recent years. First, with the collapse of central planning
in the former communist countries and the collapse of statism throughout
the developing world, economies of the world are more closely integrated
in than at any other time in history. <BR>
<BR>
Just 25 years ago only a third of the world's population - the US,
Canada, western Europe, Japan, and some smaller east Asian economies -
lived in countries that engaged in open, market-based international trade.
Even that activity constituted a much smaller proportion of national income
than it does today. Now, with the opening of China, India, Latin America,
central Europe, the former Soviet Union and parts of Africa, perhaps 90%
of the world's population is linked via trade and financial flows. As linkages
deepen, the importance of performance on international markets has increased
as well. <BR>
<BR>
Second, the differences in economic performance around the world is large:
several countries today consistently achieve 6% to 8% annual growth rates
while others languish. The secret to rapid and sustained growth is connected
to a country's success in international markets. No country has achieved
such growth without an accompanying export boom. <BR>
<BR>
Third, there is a widespread sense that in some areas of economic life a
country's success depends not just on good economic performance, but on
performance that is at least as good as one's competitors. Economists since
Adam Smith have rightly stressed that international trade and finance is
generally a positive-sum game: closer international integration raises income
for all participating nations. And yet there may be circumstances in which
trade and finance pose a zero-sum game, with the gains for one country becoming
the losses for another. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What does competitiveness mean? </B><BR>
<BR>
Suppose that country A has weak r&amp;d institutions while country B charges
ahead in innovation. Soon, country A may find itself slipping not only in
relative but also absolute terms, as internationally mobile capital and
skilled workers flee from country A to country B. &quot;Keeping up with
the Joneses&quot; can be serious business in a world of mobile factors of
production, when each country must attract capital and skilled workers from
a global pool of resources. <BR>
<BR>
The term world competitiveness has a somewhat murky meaning when applied
to national economies. It is commonly used in at least three ways, often
without clear distinctions being drawn. The first and least controversial
usage refers to the static efficiency of a national economy. Does the economy
maintain a high level of output and consumption for its citizens, given
the resources available to the economy at a given point in time? <BR>
<BR>
The second usage refers to the economy's dynamic efficiency. Does an economy
grow rapidly because of a high rate of national savings, and an efficient
allocation of those savings to the most productive investments? <BR>
<BR>
The third and surely most controversial usage refers to zero-sum competition
in international markets. No one doubts that certain kinds of global competition,
such as military rivalry, are essentially zero-sum games. At the same time,
most economists concur that international trade and finance are overwhelmingly
positive-sum activities. The debate is whether there are limited but important
circumstances of zero-sum competition in the world economy. <BR>
<BR>
The debate has been heated, since many who believe that such zero-sum competition
is important also tend to favour a stronger role of the government in giving
domestic businesses an advantage over foreign ones through the use of export
subsidies, funds for domestic r&amp;d, anti-trust laws and other kinds of
strategic support for domestic firms. Most economists, myself included,
are deeply wary of the political and financial traps of interventionist
trade policies, believing that they can be an enormous waste of money as
well as a trigger of international trade conflict in which all countries
are the losers. <BR>
<BR>
Professor Paul Krugman, one of the world's leading trade theorists, has
questioned the importance of world competitiveness in all three senses of
the term. But he has gone too far, even though he makes some valuable points
along the way. In his first piece, &quot;Competitiveness: A Dangerous Obsession&quot;,
Krugman attacks the relevance of zero-sum competition in the world economy.
In the second, he challenges the importance of world competitiveness in
its first two senses of static and dynamic efficiency. In the third, Krugman
argues that the Mexican collapse earlier this year was not an isolated accident
but the bursting of the bubble on market-based reforms in the developing
world. Krugman is not against these reforms but claims that they have been
vastly oversold, as have the costs of protectionism. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Reacting to the strategic traders </B><BR>
<BR>
This is pretty breathtaking, especially from such an important economic
theorist fighting to promote free trade. Krugman is reacting in part to
the &quot;strategic traders&quot; in Washington, who emphasise the zero-sum
aspects of international competition in order to enlist the US government
in a new round of mercantilist support for business. It is a dangerous trend
and Krugman has been an important voice of opposition. But by downplaying
the benefits of trade liberalisation and misjudging the sources of east
Asian dynamism, Krugman risks throwing out the baby with the bath water.
He has left an impression with readers around the world that competitiveness
in general, and trade liberalisation in particular, just do not add up to
very much. <BR>
<BR>
Only somebody who has never been to Singapore or Russia could possibly confuse
one economy for the other. It is true that both countries invested heavily
to grow rapidly, but Singapore invested to produce things demanded by world
markets. Russia, by contrast, produced ever-increasing amounts of steel,
coal and other heavy industrial goods demanded by the central planning bureaucracy
rather than by the market. From the '50s through the '70s, Soviet growth
was fairly rapid in physical but not in market terms. While measured GDP
rose rapidly, this was because the value of the physical output was measured
at artificial accounting prices rather than at real market prices. Once
the economy was opened to market forces in the '90s, measured GDP plummeted
by nearly half as enterprises stopped producing the physical outputs not
demanded by the market. <BR>
<BR>
Krugman argues that Singapore's dynamic growth (8.3% per year between 1970
and 1980 and 6.9% per year between 1980 and 1993) is no miracle since it
is based on very heavy investment spending. But the miracle is that Singapore
could invest heavily for decades - some 40% of GDP per year -
and still continue to earn a high real rate of return on new investment
projects. Indeed the returns continue to be so high that Singapore pulls
in more than $6 billion per year in foreign direct investment. <BR>
<BR>
Krugman is right: there is no magic elixir at work, in the sense of a &quot;Confucian
elixir&quot; as some cultural determinists would have it, or a nefarious
industrial policy as Washington's strategic traders sometimes insist. But
the benefits of open trade and finance, active research and development,
macroeconomic stability and continued upgrading of human skills cannot be
gainsaid. In a phrase, Singapore is internationally competitive. <BR>
<BR>
It may also be right to say that the measurable costs of protectionist policies
are &quot;not all that large&quot;, but that is an indictment of the textbook
measurements rather than the importance of open trade policies. In a recent
study that my colleague Andrew Warner and I undertook for the Brookings
Institution, using objective measurements of trade policy, we found that
among developing economies those with open policies have decisively outperformed
closed economies. Between 1970 and 1989, open economies averaged per capita
GDP growth of 4.5% per year while the closed counterparts averaged a mere
0.7% per year. The open economies, as a general matter, also avoided the
extreme macroeconomic crises that befell most of the closed economies, including
debt default and high inflation. <BR>
<BR>
Krugman's attack on zero-sum economics is most persuasive, but even here
I suspect that it is overstated. Interestingly it is Krugman himself, as
an enormously creative theorist, who has illustrated many of the ways that
international trade and finance can have zero-sum attributes. In a pathbreaking
theoretical paper 15 years ago, he showed that the income of a technologically
advanced economy could be undermined by the catch-up of a technologically
lagging trade partner and showed that staying ahead of the pack can be crucial
for living standards. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Regions and nations in competition <BR>
</B><BR>
In more recent work on economic geography, Krugman has shown how regions
and nations can be in competition for internationally mobile factors. In
his theoretical models, the long-run living standards of a national economy
depend on how effectively and rapidly the economy attracts internationally
mobile capital and skilled labour. First movers can have a permanent advantage
in living standards. <BR>
<BR>
Krugman's argument is that these theories are just not very important in
practice. But how do we really know? My own guess is that the great dynamism
seen in recent years in Singapore or Malaysia has come not only because
these economies were world competitive - market-based and flexible
- but also because they were competitive two decades ahead of the rest
<BR>
of the developing world. <BR>
<BR>
Latin America and Sub-Saharan African economies, by contrast, suffered falling
prices for exports in the '80s not only as a result of bad luck but because
of their low economic efficiency. Those economies simply failed to adjust
to changing world market conditions. With competition for international
capital and technological transfers heating up, the need for each economy
to be competitive relative to the others is also more intense. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Good policies make a difference </B><BR>
<BR>
A growing number of empirical studies, including the annual WCR, are deepening
understanding of the sources of rapid and sustained economic growth. Cross-country
statistical analyses in recent years have shown that good economic policies
make a significant difference in economic performance. These studies confirm,
in broad terms, the importance of the factors emphasised each year by the
WCR: the openness of the economy (internationalisation); macroeconomic stability;
the rule of law; the quality of infrastructure and the level and range of
human capital including managerial, scientific, and innovative capacity
of the economy. <BR>
<BR>
Moreover, the WCR rankings of the developed world seem to accord not only
with growth performance but with that of the various countries in attracting
internationally mobile capital. Singapore's high ranking in the WCR may
not impress Krugman but it accords well with the market verdict. Singapore
has been attracting more foreign direct investment per year in the '90s
than all of central and eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union combined.
<BR>
<BR>
The WCR provides us with a treasure trove of data, and therefore offers
a rich testing ground for future studies of international growth, economic
geography, and comparative economic performance. While we have much to learn
about the specific sources of economic growth, I am confident that the WCR
is on the right track in identifying vibrant markets, flexibility, sound
economic policies, and the commitment to innovation as the hallmarks of
economic success in an increasingly competitive global economy. <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img  width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-81</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B035-60</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.07/em.96.07.4.html 194.217.137.48 19970114144725 text/html 23643
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:46:25 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 16:58:39 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 23408
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00000900 Commodities -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
July 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 


<H3>COMMODITIES </H3>
<H2>Copper and culpability </H2>
<H4>The London Metal Exchange, the world's top copper exchange, rode out
the drama of Yasuo Hamanaka and Sumitomo's losses. But is it crying out
for reform, and is it an efficient means of price discovery? Christopher
Spink reports </H4>
On May 9, three-month copper futures - the London Metal Exchange's
and hence the world's benchmark - reached $2,715.50 a tonne. It was
the highest price of the year. On the surface, it looked like a sort of
triumph - with the LME's turnover up 700% since 1987 and its business
far outweighing that of its major rivals, the exchange was surely as good
an instrument of price formation as was going to be found in an imperfect
world. <BR>
<BR>
On June 13, at a press conference after the annual meeting of the LME board,
just hours before Sumitomo announced that Yasuo Hamanaka, its chief copper
trader, had been fired after running up estimated losses of $1.8 billion,
LME chairman David King was lauding the &quot;unique qualities&quot; of
the exchange and its runaway success. The news from Sumitomo was a shock
to outsiders, but those on the floor clearly knew what was afoot. With rumours
of Hamanaka's sidelining and then dismissal circulating, the futures price
plummeted by a quarter from its May 9 peak. <BR>
<BR>
An adjustment was under way, but why had it taken so long? Was the LME's
success - it handles 90% of the world's trades in copper - built
on the fact that it offered an efficient price-forming mechanism, or did
participants just like the light regulatory touch? <BR>
<BR>
The rise of the LME was dramatic. In 1988 New York exchange Comex, which
trades gold, silver and copper through open outcry, had double the turnover
of the LME. But the LME expanded so rapidly that in 1993 Comex joined forces
with rival New York exchange Nymex in an effort to challenge the London
market's growing domination of base-metals trading. The LME has established
itself as the pre-eminent market for hedging base-metal prices for industry
users and for commodity funds. The prices set there are used as an industry
benchmark. &quot;There is nothing else to refer to,&quot; says David Sobotka,
managing director of commodities at Lehman Brothers. <BR>
<BR>
Copper has always been the flagship contract for the LME and volume traded
is now greater than the combined volume of the seven other traded metals.
Vivian Davies, chief executive of Brandeis, an LME ring-dealing member,
attributes expansion during the 1990s to a surge in project finance for
infrastructure and an expansion of copper-using industries. Most of the
copper that goes to consumers is hedged against delivery either through
Comex contracts, or through traded futures and options on the LME. <BR>
<BR>
Traded options have been listed on the LME since 1987. Options are available
for each month up to 27 ahead. And futures can be traded on the exchange
by brokers dealing for producers, consumers and intermediary smelters and
founders for any date up to three months, then every Wednesday for the next
nine months and every month out to 27. <BR>
<BR>
Customers directly involved with copper as producers or consumers still
make up the bulk of business. William Adams, analyst at Rudolf Woolf, a
large LME ring-dealing broker which is now part of Canadian metals group
Norunda, says that &quot;90% of our deals, and the LME's contracts in general,
are trade-based&quot;. <BR>
<BR>
Most producers now use put options to fix a floor for prices. Back in 1993,
though, Per Sekse, vice-president of commodity derivatives at what was then
Chemical Bank, noted that &quot;most consumers of base metals are consistently
not hedged&quot;. It's still true that consumers are still less likely to
use the exchange than producers. Lehman's Sobotka says: &quot;Sellers are
still far more interested in buying hedges than consumers.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Industry use of the LME to hedge shades off imperceptibly into investor
involvement as a strategic alternative to equities and fixed-interest. Lehman
Brothers and other large investment houses have become involved in commodities,
especially base metals, during the 1990s. They offer tailor-made derivatives
to help market participants improve their trades by fixing prices for longer
or more specific periods than the exchanges offer. <BR>
<BR>
An advantage for clients of these developments is that by working off-exchange
they can hide their positions from rivals. Goldman Sachs (through Aron),
Deutsche (via Sharps Pixley), UBS, Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais (by setting up
Credit Lyonnais Rouse in 1993) and Barclays became involved, either by buying
membership of the LME or by buying metal brokers. <BR>
<BR>
Commodity funds accounted for almost 25% of the market in 1994. These baskets
of commodities - generally including copper because on exchanges it
is the most liquid base metal - offer investors broader exposure to
inflation-free quasi-securities when bonds and equities seem to offer relatively
poor returns. <BR>
<BR>
Despite these developments the LME copper market still rests solidly on
industry fundamentals. At the June 13 press conference, King announced that
47.2 million lots of copper (each of 25 tonnes) had been traded in 1995,
a turnover of more than $2,750 billion. LME chairman Raj Bagri rightly called
his exchange &quot;the world's base metals market&quot;. LME deals in seven
base metals; Comex, by comparison, trades only a copper contract. Nick Moore,
analyst at Flemings, calls Comex &quot;a peanut market compared to the LME&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
But how well does this rhetoric stand up in the face of recent events, notably
the intermittent backwardation that has affected the copper market since
last November? By May, the cash price of copper, which is set in the morning
ring session at the LME, was $300 higher than the three-month future. <BR>
<BR>
The fundamentals of copper supply and demand, which ultimately move the
market, indicated that the spot price should have been lower. The May high
could be explained by a strike at Chilean state-owned mining company Codelco.
Chile has been the world's largest producer of copper since July last year.
Production was stalled, copper became scarcer and the price was bolstered.
&quot;The copper surplus was temporarily reduced,&quot; says William Adams
of Rudolf Woolf. <BR>
<BR>
But overall production this year has remained high and so the mysterious
backwardation trend still lacked explanation, let alone resolution. Last
November, though, the LME initiated an investigation into backwardation
in the market that ended up at Sumitomo's door and eventually led to Hamanaka's
dismissal. The very size of Sumitomo's copper business seems to have driven
it from a stringent regulatory environment to a relatively relaxed one.
Sumitomo US Corp, a subsidiary of Sumitomo Corp, ceased trading on Comex
in 1993. On Comex there is a limit to the size of position a client can
hold whereas on the LME members are merely required to submit confidential
reports of large positions held by their customers to the LME secretariat.
<BR>
<BR>
Another attractive feature of the LME compared with Comex is that transactions
can be carried out as a customer of intermediaries known as introducing
metal brokers who have access to ring-dealing LME members. Most of Hamanaka's
transactions were carried out in this way. Since Sumitomo was not an LME
member and did not deal directly with any such member, the company's trades
did not come under the jurisdiction of any UK regulatory authority. As the
LME's King points out: &quot;Since Sumitomo is not a member of our exchange
we have no jurisdiction over their internal affairs.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The LME's King asserts: &quot;We are talking about not the failure of the
UK regulatory system nor the LME's controls but about the failure in the
running of one major organization [Sumitomo] over a period of 10 years.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
The LME's present market structure resulted from the 1985 tin crisis and
the liberalization effected by the 1986 Financial Services Act. In 1985
the International Tin Council (ITC), which sought to maintain consistent
prices for tin consumers and producers, &quot;effectively defaulted&quot;,
as one metal trader puts it. This resulted from the failure of the Sixth
International Tin Agreement to gain universal acceptance. Thus the ITC became,
in effect, a rival of the users of the LME's free market. By propping up
the price artificially by buying physical stockpiles of tin, the ITC's buffer
stock manager tried - like Hamanaka - to corner the market, but
failed when he could no longer raise the amount required to maintain the
physical price. The failure of the ITC to honour any of its outstanding
contracts led to a tin market collapse. Tin contracts were not traded again
on the LME for four years. <BR>
<BR>
Major reforms followed the 1985 tin crisis. At the time the exchange operated
as a principal-to-principal market. Clearing was performed by the members
themselves as counterparties to the trades - not by a clearing house.
After the tin crisis the market became a credit-cleared market making use
of the London Clearing House. One broker says the LME &quot;changed fundamentally&quot;
as a result. A new form of associate membership was created. These clearing
members, though not allowed to deal in the ring, bring extra capital and
liquidity to the exchange. <BR>
<BR>
But the post-tin crisis attempts to create a &quot;free, open and transparent
market&quot; were not entirely effective. The LME, King admits, occupies
a &quot;unique&quot; regulatory position. In an interview conducted before
the Sumitomo affair blew up, he said: &quot;On the regulatory front we have
a problem fitting into the regulatory environment in the UK, the European
Union, the US, in fact everywhere. It is not that we are less stringently
regulated, just different.&quot; Since the LME deals purely in derivatives,
not in physical metals, it is an investment exchange, and accordingly regulated
by the UK's Securities &amp; Investments Board. Its members are therefore
themselves regulated by the Securities &amp; Futures Authority. As a consequence
of the collapse of Baring Brothers, the LME is also party to an international
agreement to share data and information with 49 other exchanges and 14 regulators.
<BR>
<BR>
In the same interview King went on to say: &quot;If someone breaks our rules
we are clear in our philosophy: we hang them high and we hang them publicly.&quot;
The rules are not insubstantial, but they are rarely applied. The board
can require members to outline daily confidential reports of their clients'
positions. They can also impose limits on the holding of warehouse physical
stock. When Sumitomo was questioned about its Long Beach stock, it claimed
it was required for immediate orders. <BR>
<BR>
The LME board can also in theory impose limits on backwardation. In May
King announced that the cash and three-month prices should remain within
1% of each other. These powers are infrequently used. King states that his
remit is to maintain &quot;an orderly market&quot; but he is against excessive
regulation since he believes this would interfere in the natural price formation
and hedging requirements of industrial users. <BR>
<BR>
However, as recently as May 1995 Mary Schapiro, who chairs the US Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, questioned the LME's ability to police itself.
Comex imposes on-the-spot fines on miscreant members. The LME did impose
a fine of &#163;100,000 on Credit Lyonnais Rouse (CLR) - only after
CLR admitted impropriety - for its part in the 1993 artificial backwardation
and squeeze on the physical copper price - which, like the recent episode,
was linked by market rumour to Hamanaka. But there have been earlier instances
of individuals and institutions that could not be disciplined because, like
Sumitomo, they were not LME members. Codelco rogue trader Juan Pablo Davila,
who lost millions in 1994, could not be cautioned. Nor could Chinese investment
bank Citic, which defaulted on broker payments. <BR>
<BR>
Then there is the class of introducing brokers. Because they are not themselves
LME members but act for customers, positions of their clients are difficult
to disentangle. <BR>
<BR>
The LME's transparency is also diminished because of the way dealing is
carried out. There are only 17 ring dealing members (with capacity for 24).
These 17, along with associate broker clearing members and associate broker
members, are the only ones authorized to issue client contracts, though
these can be passed on to introducing brokers acting for clients. Thus Sumitomo
could spread its deals around the ring. Much LME-cleared business is conducted
24 hours a day, office-to-office by phone. The ring operates using open
outcry twice daily. In the first session, starting at 11.45, two periods
of five minutes for each metal are conducted followed by a 25-minute kerb
session when contracts on all seven LME metals can be traded. This process
is repeated at 15.15. Ring dealing mainly consists of inter-broker balancing
of clients' trades accumulated during the day. Most important, the morning
session sets what amounts to an official price, published worldwide for
industry users. <BR>
<BR>
Comex, by contrast, is principally an open outcry market, operating from
8.10 to 14.00. But between 16.00 and 08.00 electronic bid and offer prices
can be posted. The exchange also imposes limits on large positions. In the
LME's King's view &quot;this artificial barrier is the reason why they are
unsuccessful.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A further level of complexity is added because of the extent of over-the-counter
(OTC) and off-exchange business. Brandeis's Davies claims this constitutes
&quot;at least a third of our business&quot;. Lehman's Sobotka concurs.
&quot;A lot of our deals are done upstairs,&quot; he says. Much of this
business consists of traded average-price options (Tapos) or Asian options.
Unlike LME traded options these enable contract holders to take delivery
at the average price over the life of the option rather than the position
at the end of the contract period. From January 1997 such contracts will
be listed on the LME. <BR>
<BR>
Davies believes the LME's transparency would benefit from some specific
reforms. At the moment clients are allowed to carry over &quot;historical
prices&quot; of contracts when they are renewed. Davies considers it inevitable
that the exchange will switch to a system whereby contracts are completely
cash-cleared each day, as applies at Comex. King reviewed the use of carry-over
on contracts last November and agreed to &quot;continue it as long as it
has a role to perform&quot;. If it was banned, he said, &quot;we would lose
control as the practice would be performed off-exchange. However we have
agreed to enhance regulation by only allowing it to take place if authorized
at board level or equivalent between broker and client.&quot; Davies believes
that there should be clarification of the LME's regulatory position on large-position
reporting and the way it fits into the international regulatory framework
(as a commodities exchange it does not currently qualify for the EU's Investment
Services Directive). He also considers that the LME board might benefit
from drawing some of its members from outside the exchange's own ranks.
 <HR>
<H2>The slippery slope of over-regulation </H2>
<I>Andrew Large, chairman of the uk's Securities &amp; Investments Board,
has announced a six-month inquiry into London metals dealing. He reflects
on how regulation weathered the copper crisis, 15 months after Barings.</I>
<BR>
<BR>
<B>Had Barings taught you some useful lessons?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Yes. Partly it was because of the thought-processes that had gone on over
the last year that we did have the machinery in place. The announcement
by Sumitomo of the size of its losses came in the middle of the night in
London. That didn't give us long to ensure an orderly opening of the market
the following morning. Thanks to that machinery, we were able to find all
the parties that needed to be found so that they could work out, to the
best of their ability, who was going to have what exposure. Then the London
Clearing House had to decide what to do about margins; the Securities &amp;
Futures Authority had to decide whether it had any parties in the over-the-counter
market which might run short of capital? The CFTC (Commodity Futures Trading
Commission) had to consider whether there were any American parties which
could have difficulties. There also had to be alerts to the exchanges in
the US. I'm not saying all these things wouldn't have happened a year ago
but I genuinely believe if we'd been faced with what happened that night
a year ago - or before Barings had happened - rather than being
a tough night it would have been a nightmare. So much thought had gone into
it in the meantime, that we were able to approach things in a professional
way, rather than everybody having to invent what to do standing on their
feet. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Do you think the copper market is a can of worms? Does it now have to
be sorted out because it's so untransparent?</B> <BR>
<BR>
The price formation of the world's copper takes place on the London Metal
Exchange. I think I'm right in saying that between 85% and 90% of on-exchange
dealing in copper takes place on the LME and that is the price formation
mechanism. Who does that price formation benefit? Answer: those who use
it, and those who use other over-the-counter means of settling trades -
the main producers , the main consumers and the intermediaries. How is it
then, if it's a can of worms, that 90% of the trades are done there and
it's being used for price formation? If what you said is true those people
who have an interest would find another means of price formation -
and they haven't. The LME offers a service which is valued by those who
use its market. Clearly, an event of this sort raises questions. Questions
of transparency in a general sense have been raised. It's significant that
the LME came to us and asked us to look at their market. But we're also
having to look at the way copper is traded over-the-counter. It's too early
to say what we might find. We're going to be speaking with big producers
and big users of copper, and recyclers as well. We'll also talk to intermediaries.
The picture we want to build up is, what are the essentials that users are
looking for in that price formation; are they being met; could they be met
better? <BR>
<BR>
There are two other things we're concerned about with copper. When a shock
of this sort occurs, there are bound to be rumours about potentially very
big and unexpected positions, and their capacity to cause instability in
the market. The regulators have got to consider carefully whether there
is any way of encouraging the market to go forward in an orderly manner.
You can get panics in any markets, and this is just the sort of stuff that
could give rise to panics - where people find themselves with unexpected
changes of environment. <BR>
<BR>
The third thing is enforcement. We don't know what went on yet. Our overriding
concern is: has there been any abuse of the market, whether in terms of
breaking the rules or the law, that has taken place in the UK. If so, was
it regulatory; was it criminal? If any marketplace is thought to harbour
abuse that isn't detected and dealt with, it can affect confidence, and
that can harm investors. We're looking to see whether abuses have occurred,
and if they have that we've done all we can do as far as those who behaved
improperly are concerned. The clearer we can be about what's happened, the
sooner people will feel more comfortable. <BR>
<BR>
<B>What about the thought that Sumitomo's involvement in the copper market
was so huge, that it was causing a distortion?</B> <BR>
<BR>
Of course, the losses were huge. But the problem is, there needs to be some
mechanism for doing things. Sumitomo is not subject to our direct remit
in the UK. It's in a third country. It's an end user. Maybe you can make
dealing more transparent on exchanges. But what about the OTC deals? Wouldn't
the parties merely find other ways to trade? Some might say that this means
there is a need to regulate a bit more here or there. On this basis, the
world's legislators could end up saying, &quot;The game's got to stop, we'll
put a big regulatory structure in place everywhere.&quot; Then, any company
here which bought and sold anything - I mean goods like copper, not
just financial asset - would all of a sudden have some linkage with
financial services regulators in case they were doing it in futures. We
would all need to think long and hard before taking any such step. <BR>
<BR>
<B>David Shirreff</B>
 <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-82</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA028-000302-B035-25</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.07/em.96.07.3.html 194.217.137.48 19970114144655 text/html 29169
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 14:46:01 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 16:55:33 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 28934
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: July 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00001200 Corporate Profiles -->
<!--00001700 Emerging Markets -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
July 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 
<h3>MC SECURITIES</H3>
<H2>Rudloff's last crusade </H2>
<H4>Twenty-five year veteran of the capital markets Hans-Joerg Rudloff and
his 18-month-old investment bank MC Securities have given up their independence.
Rumour had it that it was a consequence of disaster for the bank in Russian
markets. Looking deeper, though, it seems more like a victory. Steven Irvine
reports </H4>
London's<I> Evening Standard</I> newspaper broke the story. The latest in
a long line of London-based merchant banks was to lose its independence
to a large continental European commercial bank. But this one's assets didn't
include anything like the butlers of Schroders or the fine art of Rothschild.
In fact it was devoid of that sort of upper-crust City culture, having received
its securities licence only 18 months earlier. What's more, it was best
known for its activities in Russia, despite having nearly half its staff
in London. So why all the fuss? <BR>
<BR>
The bank in question, MC Securities, might be a newcomer, but it has a promising
pedigree &shyp; it's the brainchild of Hans-Joerg Rudloff, formerly chairman
and chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston. The news was greeted
with surprise, partly because MC Securities was supposedly the vehicle for
the German-born Rudloff, apparently tired of commercial banks, to go it
alone. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Name change</B> <BR>
<BR>
The new ownership agreement is with Banque Bruxelles Lambert (BBL) and,
under it, Rudloff will ultimately answer to BBL, just as he once reported
to Credit Suisse. &quot;Yes this is correct,&quot; says Rudloff with a laugh.
&quot;I am an employee of BBL. I am back to stage one.&quot; Rudloff has
been in the limelight for years &shyp; his first portrayal on a <I>Euromoney
</I>cover, riding a chariot into battle, was in 1981. <BR>
<BR>
The loss of independence is nowhere more evident than in the company name.
The bank will no longer be called simply MC, which stands for Marcuard &amp;
Cie, Marcuard being Rudloff's mother's surname. (One of Rudloff's cousins,
a Marcuard, works for the Geneva operation.) Now the BBL name will be tagged
on to the main operating companies. A new logo will probably be designed
too. <BR>
<BR>
The obvious conclusion when the news leaked was that Rudloff's $75 million
venture had failed. Much the greater part of MC's business might be in western
Europe but this did not apparently attract attention. Rumour had it that
the highly-publicized drive into Russia had eaten up Rudloff's capital and
that MC Securities needed recapitalizing. Rudloff denies the rumour, pointing
out that despite start-up costs MC's eastern European operation is already
pretty well out of the red. <BR>
<BR>
Charles Harman, who is in charge of eastern Europe, recalls that before
he joined he asked Rudloff why he needed $75 million in equity. Rudloff
told him that even if annual costs were $25 million and no revenue was
forthcoming,
that way the firm could operate for three years. <BR>
<BR>
In fact, &quot;losses&quot; were limited to $15 million in 1995. &quot;Obviously
we lost $15 million,&quot; says Rudloff. &quot;We built from zero to 220
people in a year.&quot; And, he points out, the headline $15 million loss
included many one-off costs, such as legal fees for incorporating the business
($1 million) and start-up costs such as equipping trading desks, each of
which Rudloff estimates costs $50,000. And the figure would have been lower
had MC not missed out on first-quarter trading because of a delay in receiving
its licence from the UK's Securities &amp; Futures Authority. In addition,
the corporate finance advisory work it carried out &shyp; with an average
deal-life of eight months &shyp; mostly occurred after April, so success
fees were only paid in 1996. Finally, the $15 million also included $4 million
in staff bonuses. <BR>
<BR>
Rudloff says that in the first six months of 1996, MC Securities will probably
break even. It may end the first half $1 million up or down depending on
how well the the last four days of June went. &quot;The Russian market was
up 10% today,&quot; Rudloff told <I>Euromoney </I>on June 24. &quot;That
could well add $1 million.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Peter Ogden, another MC partner, says: &quot;Well, clearly we've spent a
fortune. We have a 90-man office in London and we faced the business head-on.
But it's a typical J-curve. You can't creep into this business.&quot; Harman,
who left CSFB after 10 years, substantiates this point. When he left CSFB
at the end of 1994, it had 60 staff in Moscow, 30 in Budapest, 30 in Prague
and four in Warsaw &shyp; a total of 124 in eastern Europe. MC's 132 exceeds
this, with 12 in Warsaw, 65 in Moscow and 55 in Prague. <BR>
<BR>
But Rudloff readily admits to a flaw in one key area of his strategy. An
ideas man &shyp; some of his best are apparently dreamed up in the bath
&shyp; he became, as a Moscow banker puts it, a &quot;philosopher king&quot;
when he got the opportunity to start a firm from scratch. What went awry
was his notion that an ideal synergy between youth and experience could
be created at MC. At the top level, a board was formed which included such
distinguished figures as Lord Carrington, the former UK foreign secretary.
The &quot;experience&quot; was largely supposed to come from the partners.
And at the lowest level, it was expected that hungry young people would
bounce their energy and creativity off the older generation. After a late
night at the office, the charismatic Rudloff would take them to expensive
London nightclub Annabel's for a debriefing. <BR>
<BR>
As it happened, the structure broke down in the middle. Rudloff wanted to
amass $35 million of personal capital &shyp; in cash - from the partners.
This wealth requirement meant that those chosen tended to be on the wrong
side of 45 and no longer inclined to be particularly aggressive in winning
business. Ogden, puffing on a cigar, is under no illusions: &quot;Partnerships
confuse employment with investment. Few of the partners proved to be great
employees.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Several partners came from a group of friends Rudloff assembled in the late
1980s when he dominated the capital markets at CS First Boston. A delighted
financial press portrayed it as a dream team - but it was one from
the last decade. <BR>
<BR>
<B>The dream team</B> <BR>
<BR>
There was Peter Ogden, a former syndicate head at Morgan Stanley who got
particularly rich when the firm was floated in 1986 and even richer when
he moved out of investment banking into computers, setting up the highly
successful computer distributor Computacenter. He put $6 million into MC,
not much less than Rudloff's $7.5 million. Ogden's best friend, Joan Beck,
a former syndicate chief at Morgan Stanley, and CS First Boston, also joined.
Another founding partner was Sheldon Prentice, formerly syndicate head at
Salomon Brothers. He had, however, been out of the markets for five years
before his arrival at the MC offices in Commercial Union Tower in London,
where the company leased a whole floor. <BR>
<BR>
Ogden set up the computer systems and occupied himself with the asset management
business, but neither Beck nor Prentice appear to have been particularly
interested in the eastern European operation. Prentice, who is extremely
well known in the US, was initially keen to set up a New York office, but
this never happened. Neither had &quot;a particular role&quot;, says Rudloff.
Both decided to leave by &quot;mutual agreement&quot;. Between them their
shareholding was only 3%, which the other partners bought out. <BR>
<BR>
&quot;The younger people made a big contribution and most of the other guys
didn't,&quot; Rudloff concedes. &quot;It only works if the older people
prove themselves to the younger people and win their respect.&quot; The
firm is now staffed by what he calls &quot;dedicated 30 year-olds&quot;.
<BR>
<BR>
In all, six partners have left. New ones joined, so there are now 11, including
an undisclosed number of the eight founding partners. One of the early
departures
was Stuart Lucas, who for five months was in charge of trading secondary
Eurobonds. He left by mutual agreement when it was decided that this business
area - which was not originally in the business plan - did not
work out. <BR>
<BR>
In addition, Unifund, a Swiss-based Saudi Arabian fund, dispensed with its
5% stake in MC Securities after two months. It wanted additional equity
in the Russian operation - a request the board refused. <BR>
<BR>
It is perhaps inevitable that Russia, the most flamboyant area of MC Securities'
business, became its public face. It meant, however, that other areas were
overshadowed. Western European corporate finance and equity capital markets
are the most important parts of the business, contributing 90% of the firm's
revenues in 1995. They are headed by Willy Douin, a Belgian who was formerly
head of CS First Boston in France. <BR>
<BR>
In the course of 1995 the western European operation won six advisory mandates,
the biggest being a shareholder restructuring at Club
M&eacute;diterran&eacute;e,
where it participated in the syndicate for the ffr880 million ($169 million)
equity issue. Two deals in Belgium arrived via BBL (which was then a 29%
shareholder in MC), while Rudloff managed to win a mandate in Switzerland.
The 25 professionals - eight corporate financiers plus research analysts
- specialize in four industrial sectors: power, financial services,
automotives and pharmaceuticals. (Rudloff is deputy chairman of Swiss drugs
company Novartis, formerly Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy.) <BR>
<BR>
<B>Impressive performance</B> <BR>
<BR>
A key part of equity capital markets is the sales force in Geneva, which
should come as no surprise since Rudloff began his career setting up Kidder
Peabody's sales force there. He spends each Friday and Monday in Geneva
and brought over a five-strong team from Credit Suisse. &quot;We are very
happy here in Geneva,&quot; says one of them. It's little wonder. In the
year from June 1995, MC Securities was in 75 out of 485 Swiss franc bond
syndicates, including deals for Sweden, Ontario and the European Investment
Bank. Outside of Swiss francs it has leveraged its connections; for example,
being part of the group when Ogden's Computacentre launched a &#163;50 million
($75.5 million) issue and when two Danish krone issues were led by BBL.
<BR>
<BR>
The asset management business has also done well. In one year it has accumulated
$230 million under management, which is all the more impressive since it
has no track record. This includes two $50 million investments from a
supranational
and a province. The business is managed by two London-based fund managers
(not eight, as one press report suggested): John Mojdehi and Frederick
Turentini,
both of whom came from - guess where - CS First Boston. There
are also three well-regarded analysts. <BR>
<BR>
Mojdehi was head of proprietary trading at CS First Boston from 1991 and
reported directly to Rudloff, partly because CS First Boston had not had
a formal prop desk before this. Mojdehi expects to have $400 million under
management by the year-end, and he points out MC's asset-management business
is not capital-intensive. Costs in 1995 were $1.5 million. The funds managed
in the London-based business are not necessarily invested in eastern Europe.
(MC does manage a Russia fund in Switzerland but the London operation has
no involvement in it.) <BR>
<BR>
Harman's eastern European operation is the most complex part of MC's business,
if only because of the shareholding structures. The newest operation, MC
Concordia in Poland, run by Adrzej Mierzwa, has always been under MC's control
- it has a 52% voting stake. In Russia, the operation is a joint venture,
known locally as United City Bank, which until the BBL deal was only 25%
owned by MC Securities. Patria, the Czech business, was only 20% owned by
MC before the BBL takeover. (Rudloff, though, had a substantial personal
shareholding.) <BR>
<BR>
Patria is run by Zdenek Bakala, the former head of the Prague office of
CSFB. There are 11 partners who own 51% of the business. It is described
by everyone at MC as the &quot;jewel&quot; in the portfolio and has developed
a profitable domestic fixed-income franchise, ranking in the top three in
Czech primary market business together with Komercni Bank and Ceska Sporitelna.
In 1995 its fixed-income sales and trading turnover were in excess of $1
billion. It is also ranked in the top three in equities. Its return on equity
for 1995 was nearly 60%. <BR>
<BR>
Jan Vlachy, a Patria partner who formerly worked for the Czech Development
Bank, says of the relationship with MC: &quot;We very much prefer to be
called an associated company, not an affiliate.&quot; He continues: &quot;I
don't remember a situation where there would have been an outright veto
of a Patria deal by MC.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The new arrangement with BBL should tidy up these diverse shareholdings.
The net effect is that the business has been split in two. The first business,
MC-BBL Securities, takes control of all western European activities -
encompassing capital markets, merger advisory and research. It becomes a
100%-owned subsidiary of BBL and will be run by Douin with the objective
of making it BBL's investment banking arm. Rudloff and the partners of what
was MC Securities will have no direct equity. Rudloff, however, will be
encouraged to bring in deals under a &quot;shadow&quot; equity plan. <BR>
<BR>
The other business is MC-BBL Eastern Holdings, which will be run by Harman
and is 51% owned by BBL. The partners of MC Securities and its outside investors
(mainly Swiss) control the other 49% of the company which, as part of the
BBL deal, increased its stakes in the eastern European businesses. It has
a 60% controlling interest in the Russian operation (up from 25%), 49% of
Patria (up from 20%) and 52% of the voting rights in the Polish business.
<BR>
<BR>
But two businesses remain outside BBL's control. The profitable Geneva operation
- in which Rudloff retains a 25% stake alongside a group of minority
interests - is one. The other is the asset-management arm which will
be partly owned by BBL and partly owned by the partners, primarily Ogden.
<BR>
<BR>
The new structure has strategic advantages. The western European operation,
a BBL subsidiary, will benefit from the BBL balance sheet. This will enable
it to underwrite primary equity business and distribute it through BBL's
brokerage subsidiaries: Williams De Bro&euml; (UK and Scandinavia),
Vermeulen-Raemdonck
(Belgium) and Ferri (France). BBL's investment banking business will be
channelled via MC's London headquarters. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Equity stake</B> <BR>
<BR>
But the deal's key benefit for BBL is its majority control of a large eastern
European operation. &quot;Outside of MC, our presence in eastern Europe
is one person in a representative office in Warsaw,&quot; says a delighted
source at BBL in Brussels. So the danger of overlaps is minimal. <BR>
<BR>
The deal, largely brokered between BBL's Jean-Pierre Wellens, an adviser
to the board, and Rudloff - friends for over 15 years - will focus
the minds of MC's partners. Their equity play has become almost purely eastern
Europe, the business with which the MC name is most closely associated and
which promises the greatest returns - though with the greatest risk.
<BR>
<BR>
In spite of losing his independence, Rudloff has managed to retain a structure
which he always advocated at CS First Boston, but was frustrated in his
attempts to create: one which gives those running the local operations an
equity stake, even if the overall majority is in the hands of a commercial
bank. One of the principal reasons for Boris Jordan's leaving CS First Boston
in Russia to create Renaissance Capital was said to have been his annoyance
that in a year when his Moscow team had made $100 million, none of its members
was given any equity in the operation by CSFB. Rudloff points out that 30%
of the equity in the Russian operation is owned by the locals. <BR>
<BR>
The need for capital in the rapidly expanding eastern European markets was
the principal motivation for ceding independence. Rudloff notes that the
successful Czech brokerage Wood &amp; Co recently entered into an agreement
with Commerzbank. Russian broker Grant similarly hooked up with Creditanstalt.
&quot;I never left any doubt there would be capital increases, otherwise
nobody would have joined,&quot; says Rudloff. &quot;But the partners will
benefit from the greatly increased scope of the operation. The cake will
be three or four times as big.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
MC previously had $4 million in equity capital in eastern Europe, says Rudloff.
MC-BBL Eastern Holdings has $23 million. With other shareholders (such as
the partners in Patria), the eastern European operations are capitalized
at $34 million. The bulk of this is in Russia. The capital-intensive nature
of trading in eastern Europe prompted the increase. In Russia, for example,
it's not unusual for a broker to carry a client position for a week, funding
the transaction with its own capital. <BR>
<BR>
Russia is the great gamble. One interpretation of the deal with BBL is that
Rudloff has given up his independence for Russia. Although he will control
only 14% of MC-BBL Eastern Holdings, which he admits constitutes a dilution,
the deal with BBL was driven by the potential that Russia offers. &quot;I
think Russia is the most important part of all this,&quot; says Harman,
&quot;maybe 60% of the picture.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The 65-strong operation of United City Bank (UCB), the 60%-owned MC-BBL
vehicle, had been in its new premises between the Garden ring and Boulevard
ring of old Moscow for only a month and a half when <I>Euromoney</I> visited
last month. They are a marked improvement on the old offices which were
flooded four times last year. UCB is spread over three floors and, according
to the Rudloff principle of employing locals, has only eight expatriates.
The heavy weighting in Russians is aptly reflected by a sign on the stairs
saying &quot;Cigarettes Only&quot;. Downstairs in a homely corporate kitchen
the heavy smokers can enjoy nourishing food served up by babushkas. <BR>
<BR>
<B>Capital injection</B> <BR>
<BR>
The head of trading is Dmitri Evenko and the merchant banking head is Sergei
Pykiev, whose task it is to find stakes in undervalued companies. On any
given day UCB reckons it does between 5% and 10% of brokerage volumes. The
office is run by Alex Radzienko, a Russian American. &quot;My ancestors
left Russia after the Revolution,&quot; he says. &quot;I have Russian culture
in my blood.&quot; He traded emerging-market debt for Chemical Bank for
13 years, but in the 1970s was an interpreter in the US-Soviet strategic
arms limitations talks. Before he agreed to become head of MC-BBL's Russian
venture, Rudloff told him: &quot;If it doesn't work out you will have had
an experience that almost no-one else in the world will have had. So you
have nothing to lose.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Radzienko is happy about the BBL sale: &quot;It adds that element of
stability,&quot;
he says. &quot;I'm actually quite pleased with it.&quot; The capital injection
will, says Harman, lead to a commitment of $25 million to Russia, both onshore
in Moscow (where capital must be held in roubles and is prone to depreciation),
and offshore in Cyprus (where it can be kept in dollars and where some clients
prefer to trade). This will substantially increase the operation's ability
to trade both on customers' behalf and on its own account. <BR>
<BR>
Both Harman and Radzienko think a return on equity of 50% is appropriate
for Russia, where the risks are high. In the second quarter, revenues were
$1.9 million against expenditure of $1.3 million. It was the first quarter
that the Moscow operation moved into the black. <BR>
<BR>
Just as important as the capital injection, however, is the fact that the
connection with BBL - which has a $3 billion balance sheet - ought
to make it easier to access short-term credit lines from foreign banks at
more reasonable rates. Russian commercial banks charge punitively high interest
rates because they can buy high-return rouble-denominated government treasury
bills (GKOs, nicknamed gekkos) yielding in the region of 150%. <BR>
<BR>
The hope is that UCB, which has a commercial banking licence, can leverage
its connections with BBL further. BBL is already involved in trade finance
in Russia and as Harman says: &quot;A lot of companies you want to do business
with are exporters.&quot; UCB also hopes that it can point companies desperate
for short-term finance in BBL's direction to borrow at reasonable rates
- not the gekko-inspired ones that few companies can afford to pay
Russia's commercial banks. BBL, which unlike German and Austrian banks has
an almost non-existent Russian loan book, may wish to get involved in loan
syndication. UCB is aware that should this happen the relationships formed
will be crucial when companies later award mandates for international equity
issues. <BR>
<BR>
According to Rudloff, UCB has 296 counterparties trading Russian securities.
One New York-based investor running a $60 million Russia fund recalls his
first involvement with MC's Russian traders. He received a rather brusque
call at 5.30am New York time to be informed of a market move. &quot;I was
so impressed with the service and the ideas that I gave them a series of
large orders - irritated as I was to lose my sleep.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The same investor says: &quot;You can find things out calling MC that you
can't from other people.&quot; He says that Russian oil company Surgut Neftugas
recently announced annual profits three times higher than the previous year's.
You could have known this three weeks before the announcement, he adds,
because of a cryptic result leaked onto the Reuters screen for the principal
daughter company. &quot;It needed interpretation. But some in the market
were too lazy. The only people we were talking to who were equipped to come
to sensible solutions were MC.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The research that UCB produces is highly regarded. Christopher Granville,
a former British diplomat in Moscow and the winner of a local magazine's
award for best Russian analyst, writes the <I>Russia Weekly</I>, a news
digest whose only flaw is that it's not published as regularly as its title
suggests. &quot;As an analyst in this market you feel like you are writing
for individuals,&quot; he says. His prediction on the first round of the
presidential elections was spot on: 33% Yeltsin, 31% Zyuganov. <BR>
<BR>
Back in London, a further team of researchers write sectoral research. One
of the most highly regarded is Stephen O'Sullivan. His all-inclusive 130-page
&quot;book&quot; on LUKoil was written as a credibility-building exercise.
O'Sullivan was previously an oil consultant at Coopers &amp; Lybrand, and
before that at BP and Total. It's easier for him to make contact with Russian
oil companies now that Vitaly Cherniak, Russia's former deputy fuel and
energy minister, is on the MC-BBL staff. Oil stocks are the most heavily
traded of all Russian equities. <BR>
<BR>
The connection with Cherniak resulted from a relationship he had with MC-BBL's
local partner, Sintez, a Russian trading company that began selling compact
disks in 1987 and among others things now owns an oil refinery and an oil
field. Sintez retains 40% of UCB. <BR>
<BR>
<B>A good time to be in Russia</B> <BR>
<BR>
<I>Euromoney</I> visited UCB's office the day after the first round of the
presidential elections on June 16, when excitement was at fever pitch.
Third-placed
candidate Alexander Lebed had just declared his support for Boris Yeltsin.
His quote on the Reuters screen amused Andrew Cowley, an MC Securities partner
in Moscow. Cowley formerly wrote for <I>The Economist</I> and recalled the
interview Lebed permitted him in 1993 when the fiery general was acting
as a peacekeeper, and nearly walked out because Cowley was wearing a pink
shirt. Things did not get much better. Lebed responded to a whole series
of questions with the cryptic response: &quot;I walk like a cat.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Nevertheless Lebed's cat-walking pledge of support for Yeltsin was interpeted
in the financial markets as certain victory for the president in the second
round against the communists. At the end of the day the Moscow Times index
hit its highest level since September 1994. The average yield on gekkos
fell 20% to 132% - the previous Thursday the yield had been 215%. <BR>
<BR>
MC's Russian operation had had a good day. In the trading room, the three
equity traders and two gekko traders had telephones stuck to their ears.
&quot;What can I tell you. The market's going up,&quot; one screamed. That
day alone the Russian operation made $2 million in marked-to-market profits.
<BR>
<BR>
Rudloff is one of the many who is greatly relieved by the turn of events.
If Yeltsin wins it is forecast that a flood of foreign investment will arrive.
A good time to expand your trading book in Russia. (Although at the time
of going to press, Yeltsin had mysteriously failed to appear in public for
several days, leading some observers to assume his re-election in the second
round was by no means assured.) <BR>
<BR>
It is somewhat ironic that Rudloff should be putting so much faith in Russia
coming right. When he was first invited there in 1992 by Guy de Selliers,
a friend of Rudloff's at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
he arrived on a private jet with Carl Kuhne, then CSFB's Russian country
head. His only meeting was with Anatoly Chubais's deputy at the State Property
Committee, Dmitri Vasiliev (now head of the Russian SEC), who famously did
not stay in the meeting for long. A six-month period followed in which it
appeared Rudloff and Russia were destined not to be an item. <BR>
<BR>
The mandate to privatize Bolshevik Biscuit, Boris Jordan's first assignment
in Russia, and the subsequent sale of repurchased voucher shares to Danone,
changed Rudloff's mind. Giving up his independence to BBL is the latest
example of his resolve. &quot;Would I love to have $200 million and finance
it all myself?&quot; says Rudloff. &quot;Of course. But I know my
limitations.&quot;
<BR>
 
 <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-83</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B037-125</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.09/em.96.09.6.html 194.217.137.48 19970114123842 text/html 32498
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 12:37:33 GMT
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 17:55:25 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 32258
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: September 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
September 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left> 

<H3>FRANCE</H3>


<H2> <B>Why French banks need a shake-out</B> </H2> 

<H4> <B>Competition in French
banking is distorted by an outdated legal framework. French banks need to be
downsized and made more profitable. Their returns on equity and cost/income
ratios are deplorable. Strong statements. But those aren't <I>Euromoney</I>'s
views, they're the views of Marc Vi&eacute;not, chairman of one of France's
biggest banks, Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale. He spoke to
Felix Salmon</B> </H4> 

<P> Paris's new business centre at La D&eacute;fense is
home to most of the major French banks. Soci&eacute;t&eacute;
G&eacute;n&eacute;rale towers, both literally and figuratively, over all of them.
From the top of its new 35-storey headquarters, the chairman looks down on the
top of the Grande Arche, up the Champs Elys&eacute;es to the Arc de Triomphe, and
over to the Tour Eiffel. It's probably the best view in Paris.

<P> Marc Vi&eacute;not, SocGen's cigar-wielding, 67-year-old chairman, is as
expansive as his views. He has centralized almost all SocGen's operations to La
D&eacute;fense and cut back on branch staff numbers. Now he's more interested in
the growth area of his bank: commercial and investment banking outside France. He
intends to expand international operations until they account for half of total
profits.

<P> London and New York, he says, should prepare themselves for dealing with a
major new player, and it might not approach from France. Soci&eacute;t&eacute;
G&eacute;n&eacute;rale already has five branches in China, and is on the hunt for
strategic acquisitions in Hong Kong. Emerging markets offer a much more level
playing- field to medium-sized capital markets players than does the US.

<P> Analysts are unconvinced. No French bank, they say, has ever been world-class
in capital markets. At one point SocGen looked as if it might be the exception.
Its capital markets division made a creditable Ffr3.57 billion ($704 million) in
1993, up from Ffr1.56 billion the year before. At the time, its derivatives team
in New York was second to none. But management in France got scared. Risks and
personalities were both getting out of control. The operation was scaled back,
making just Ffr1.05 billion in 1994 and Ffr1.2 billion in 1995. In retrospect,
this was probably a good idea: in 1995 Ffr500 million was written off to dispose
of a nasty bond position in New York. It could have been far worse: SocGen
probably had less control over New York in 1993 than Barings over Singapore two
years later.

<P> Any other French bank would kill to have such problems. SocGen would be
forced into international expansion even if it didn't particularly like the idea,
if only because it has so big  a share in the French domestic capital markets.
But Vi&eacute;not's real reason for looking abroad is the fact that the domestic
situation has barely improved over the past few years.

<P> Everything you ever learnt about French banks is still true. Their return on
equity and tier-one capital ratios are among the lowest in the developed world;
this is true even for those banks that have been privatized. Their cost/income
ratios are extremely high (although mainly because their incomes are so small,
and not because costs are particularly high). The legal and legislative situation
in which they find themselves is certainly changing, but painfully slowly. And to
top it all off, their loan margins are all but non-existent.

<P> For the past year French banks have complied with the Trichet ratio. This was
introduced by central bank governor Jean-Claude Trichet with the intention of
bringing loan margins out of the gutter: France has a deadly mix of state-owned
banks with an incentive to keep profits down to avoid paying dividends to an
unhelpful shareholder, mutuals with no profit motive at all, and a history of
magnanimity and banking as social service.

<P> The Trichet ratio is simple enough: no loans should be made at less than 60
basis points over treasuries. Unfortunately, not long after it was introduced,
French government bond interest rates started falling to below German rates. The
60bp hurdle barely affected nominal loan rates. And according to Goldman Sachs,
the minimum interest rate to originate a typical mortgage profitably is closer to
200bp over treasuries.

<P> The French banking system needs much more fundamental reform than fiddling
with loan margins. It has to be possible to sack employees, if only because there
are simply too many branches for too few customers. In the longer term, however,
French demographics are such that the problem will be finding sufficient staff.
The solution in the short term would be legislation allowing shift working and
other productivity-enhancing measures.

<P> Many French bankers and foreign analysts are pinning hopes for a quick
restructuring programme on the EU. The French government is unpopular enough as
it is, without sacking employees of profitable (however minimally) banks, or
taking away the French public's tax-free Livret A savings scheme. The hope is
that the right-wing government will put up no resistance to EU directives
designed to level the European &#173; not specifically the French &#173; playing
field before monetary union.

<P> "There's a realization in France that far-reaching restructuring and
deregulation is inevitable," says Christopher Potts, chief economist at Paris
broker Chevreux de Virieu. "It's easy to take a positive medium-term view." But
change, when it comes, will come slowly. Any rosy future is still a long way off.

<P> <B><I>Euromoney</I>: Would you say that Soci&eacute;t&eacute;
G&eacute;n&eacute;rale and other French banks are moving towards Anglo-Saxon
values in banking?</B>

<P> <B>Marc Vi&eacute;not: </B>I don't know exactly what is meant by Anglo-Saxon
banking, except that it is defined by return on equity. And you have to look at
ROE in historical terms. When we talk about the present glorious returns on
equity of British and US banks, we mustn't forget that they were negative five
years ago, or three years ago. This is not meant as a criticism. Our return on
equity is mediocre, I fully agree. But it's relatively steady. It's not great.
But it's the same return on equity as that of the three Swiss banks; the same as
Deutsche Bank's.

<P> Compared with good-performing international &#173; mostly Anglo-Saxon &#173;
banks today, some foreign banks have much better ROEs than the French banks. I'm
thinking of the singular situation of Banco Popular [the Spanish bank]. It's very
specialized. But French banks are at the bottom of the lists globally, in terms
of return on equity. And do you know why?

<P> There are some structural problems, resulting from the distorted state of
competition which have certainly adversely affected margins, which is I think the
main reason for the poor situation. Banks in France are not competing on the same
basis, according to the same rules. We have competitors who compete without
having the same targets.

<P> <B>Can you give me some idea of what's involved in this competition?</B>

<P> First, there are the mutuals. This group has two components. One is
Cr&eacute;dit Agricole, which is now operating almost like a conventional bank.
But it has substantial support from its high level of equity. It has Ffr124
billion, whereas our equity is only Ffr50 billion. This has been accumulated from
a very large captive customer base, which was built up because over the years
Cr&eacute;dit Agricole was the only bank channelling state subsidies to farmers
and so on: loans which might be on 1% interest rates over 40 years. As such, they
captured a very large base. Today the agricultural community is a very tiny
customer base. But Cr&eacute;dit Agricole has still managed to maintain its
network very cleverly. It's a well-managed bank. But it started from a very
strong position, and has had no international role until now. It recently bought
Indosuez. Eight or nine years ago Cr&eacute;dit Agricole also tried to become
international, and lost many billions of francs. Now it's being a little more
cautious. The operation has a whole internal logic. Cr&eacute;dit Agricole does
not show too large a return on equity. By tradition, it returns 8%. It could
easily have shown 10%.

<P> The other mutual is Cr&eacute;dit Mutuel. Here, the distortion is a bit more
spectacular, because, together with the Caisse d'Epargne and the post office, it
markets a special product &#173; the Livret A, which is very attractive because
it is tax-exempt. I don't know if it is really necessary to the French public: I
think it's stupid that it exists. Every grandmother, when she gets a new
grandchild, opens a Livret A account. If it's so necessary, why is its sale
restricted to certain institutions? We can also offer a Livret, but not on a
tax-free basis. We have offered to sell it, and at a lower cost than the cost to
the state today. They are paying 1.5% to the Caisse d'Epargne today. We claim
that we can do the same for 1%.

<P> Through the Livret A, Cr&eacute;dit Mutuel has attracted small business,
provincial business, church associations. That's well done too. The bank is well
managed, but its return on equity is 5.5%, and it doesn't want to improve it.

<P> Then comes the Caisse d'Epargne. It's a special case &#173; quite close to US
savings &amp; loans in character. For us, the main problem with it is that it
also markets the Livret A, and is not at all concerned with return on equity or
making profits. It is a non-profit oriented institution.

<P> Then comes the post office. It's a financial services concern. It offers
overdrafts, cheque cards, life insurance, mutual funds... And its accounts are a
mystery. It recently got legal independence from the state budget, and can now do
anything it wants, except lending. Its advertising budget is 10 times ours, and
nobody cares about it &#173; except the taxpayer.

<P> But then there are the normal banks, which are defined by law. Again, we need
to make a distinction between the state-owned and the privately-owned banks.
State-owned banks normally compete on the same legal terms as privately-owned
ones. However, state-owned banks never die. This is another problem. Take
Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais, or Marseillaise de Cr&eacute;dit. They display behaviour
that's not exactly bank-like. They're taking risks, failing to make proper
provisions, and so on.

<P> <B>What's the overall effect of this?</B>

<P> Well, it means that half the players in French banking are not concerned
about making profits or a respectable return on equity. Some are not concerned
about hedging any sort of risk, because they have the state as a shareholder.
This results in a very tight squeeze on margins. Margins are thinner than in any
other market. That doesn't mean, though, that it's impossible for improvements to
be made, even within the same legal framework.

<P> Under present conditions, we can compete by introducing better cost control
and by expanding our international operations. Even so, in our domestic
operations we still believe that we can make money by a very energetic policy of
cost control, particularly a reduction in staff numbers but not, so far, a
reduction in branch numbers. What we are trying to do is to reduce costs by
concentrating back offices and trimming back on administration, while keeping a
strong commercial and sales force.

<P> <B>Could you put a number on that? At the moment you've got a 74% cost/income
ratio. </B>

<P> That's too high. We should get it down to between 60% and 65%. If we reached
65% it would be a really great achievement. Perhaps we have to distinguish the
domestic and international sides. In France it's very difficult to reduce staff
because of the high levels of protection afforded by labour regulations. When I
met Tom Labrecque [president and chief operating officer of Chase] in Paris a
month ago he told me that he has had to fire 11,000 people after the merger with
Chemical and that everybody in New York had applauded. But when I want to cut
employee numbers, I have to face the labour administration, and they will tell
me: "I'm sorry, sir, but you are profitable. You can't do it." We have to operate
by ourselves. We have reduced the number of employees in the network by 2.5%
since 1993. Globally the bank has stable staff numbers, but this is because of
expansion in capital market operations and abroad. We are reducing staff in our
domestic operations. We were among the banks that foresaw the development of
overcapacity long ago. The chairman in 1974, Maurice Laur&eacute;, convened a
meeting I attended. He said: "There is a crisis. French demographics are going
down. There are too many branches, everybody has already got a cheque book. Let's
stop the expansion." We had been growing at a rate of 7% for the previous six
years, opening branches everywhere. We were buying up all the well-located
restaurants and caf&eacute;s in France. At that time the same chairman, a
mathematician, calculated that at that rate of growth by 2045 the whole of the
active population of France would be working for Soci&eacute;t&eacute;
G&eacute;n&eacute;rale.

<P> <B>How successful have you been in slowing the growth trend?</B>

<P> It was very important to react, but it was very difficult. We had to make it
understood by the network that we had to stop expanding. Since 1974, we have
decreased by 1%, mainly through retirements. There was resistance in the bank
itself, and also from the authorities. We are totally blocked by the government
administration. And that also explains why it is difficult to undertake mergers.

<P> However, some things are changing. I am optimistic. We have criticized the
distortions in competition so much that perhaps some changes may be considered by
the goverment. For example  banks &#173; and only banks, the post office and
Caisse d'Epargne aren't affected &#173; are prevented from opening their branches
at the very time customers need them. We are compelled to open all our branches
for five consecutive days &#173; so if you open on a Saturday you cannot open on
Monday, as others institutions would do. We cannot introduce shift working. These
constraints could be amended. Perhaps also factors springing from growing
European economic integration could be taken into consideration. Another factor
favouring reforms is taxpayer discontent after the Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais
debacle.

<P> <B>So what's going to happen to Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais?</B>

<P> Right now, anybody who comes along with one franc can buy it. Make an offer.
You'll get a red carpet to the minister of finance. The government missed its
opportunity, and is now five years too late. And its support came in an
inappropriate way: they tried to rebuild Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais to how it stood
before its expansion into non-core activities.

<P> They want to privatize: they have understood that the rescue operation
doesn't work. Even after having put in Ffr135 billion, the thing hasn't
recovered. But who can buy it? I don't see anyone. It would be easier for them to
sell it to a foreigner, which would be the logical thing to do.

<P> <B>You've made it clear that there are certain legislative changes you would
like made, and that you'd like to reduce costs.</B>

<P> The legislative situation can only improve. More equality in conditions that
affect competition must be introduced, in order progressively to eliminate and
reduce distortions. This especially applies to the post office, which shouldn't
become a bank. It would add 17,000 branches to the national network and benefit
from unfair competitive advantages.

<P> Second, we can reduce costs, and third we have to grow. A concentration will
take place one way or another. The number of banks will be reduced.

<P> <B>That brings us to loans, and the fact that margins on loans in France are
the smallest in Europe.</B>

<P> There are two factors in France putting pressure on margins. One is the
number of banks, and the other is the fact that they are not playing the same
game. If you don't need to get a return on your capital, there's no reason for
you to look for high margins. And once very big actors &#173; Cr&eacute;dit
Agricole, Cr&eacute;dit Mutuel and Caisse d'Epargne &#173; play that game, the
pressure on margins is enormous. Even if 10 or 20 banks were to disappear it
would not be enough. The rules have to be the same. However, the number of actors
is still too large, and concentration will help.

<P> We discussed it recently with the governor of the Banque de France,
Jean-Claude Trichet. He said: "It's quite easy, gentlemen. Just behave, increase
your margins, and the others will follow." If we had done that, three months
later the landscape would have been totally different. We'd have lost a huge
amount of market share.

<P> So I tried to introduce another line of reasoning. I said the central bank
should ask each institution to make a minimum return on equity. This would make
sense. But the governor chose a rather different approach, recommending that the
loan should be made at a rate more than 60 basis points above the treasury bond
of the same maturity.

<P> <B>To improve profitability, can you see cost reductions in the next three or
four years?</B>

<P> Yes. But it will come automatically. In 2003 and 2004, all the people we
recruited in the years up to 1975 will start retiring. We are in the very
difficult situation of trying to reduce staff today and then all of a sudden
we'll have to recruit. But we have to survive until that stage. Perhaps we can
slightly anticipate this by finding ways of encouraging early retirement. But we
know that after 2000 to 2002, the problem will not be how to cut back, but how to
recruit.

<P> <B>What is Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale's approach to
risk?</B>

<P> Globally, our bank is traditionally risk-averse, but that is the case with
all the commercial banks in France. It seems that not only have we been
risk-averse, but that we've avoided the worst risks more than our competitors
&#173; very often by chance, I think. We missed Eurotunnel because we were
involved in a competing project: a Channel bridge. We missed EuroDisney. That was
slightly more a case of judgement than good luck: we looked at it in some detail.
And we were wary of real estate earlier than others.

<P> Do we have special techniques? I hope so; I'm not sure at all. We are usually
considered to be good risk managers. Many small or medium-sized banks can't
spread risk like Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale. I'm not especially
proud of any institution's reputation up to now. We didn't avoid Robert Maxwell.
In terms of market risk, one is never safe. The limit system makes operators take
risks. From time to time they will take them the wrong way. It's normal. But they
shouldn't be of such a size that it imperils the bank's reserves. Could a Barings
accident happen to Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale? I think not, but
I can't prove it.

<P> <B>What about credit risk?</B>

<P> Credit risk is part of the basic training at Soci&eacute;t&eacute;
G&eacute;n&eacute;rale. We have a very broad system of delegation. We don't have
a risk committee at the centre of the bank. Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais has one: it
meets with the chairman or the general managers and looks at risk every week.
That set-up doesn't exist here. People are responsible for what they do, and up
until now they've done it properly. It's not very scientific.

<P> What we are now trying to improve is the allocation of equity. We are still a
bit unclear about the way we measure the returns we are getting from different
operations.

<P> <B>I understand that your bank has a substantial equity portfolio. How does
that fit with your banking strategy?</B>

<P> Anglo-Saxon analysts find it difficult to understand why we have a portfolio
of stocks worth Ffr22 billion. They don't understand it. They say: "Why do you
have this? You should sell it." That's not my opinion. We decided in 1987 that
there should be a certain portfolio. The amount today is at the correct level. We
shouldn't go beyond it, or much beyond it. We shouldn't commit more than half of
the bank's capital and reserves. These currently stand at Ffr51 billion so there
still is a small margin.

<P> We now have to manage that portfolio. There were three reasons for building
it up. One was an exotic reason, if I may call it that. We were subject to an
aggressive raid by Georges P&eacute;bereau and a group of investors, and we had
to resist that raid. At that time, we made some commitments to people who came to
our rescue. So we took stakes in some companies.

<P> So there's a historical basis for the portfolio. But my opinion is that from
then on it proved to be a sensible move. This first reason for its existence has
disappeared. We are not trying to protect ourselves through cross-participation.
We have two views. One is that we should make a profit out of the management of
the portfolio: we are managing Ffr350 billion for our customers, so why shouldn't
we manage Ffr22 billion for ourselves?

<P> The second reason is that we have deliberately chosen to invest in French
corporations: corporations with which we would like to maintain or develop a
relationship. This does not mean being involved in their management; just getting
a better knowledge of them. And it works.

<P> <B>Have you managed to make active use of your equity portfolio?</B>

<P> We have this capital-gain reserve, which can be used. At the time we acquired
the portfolio &#173; in 1987 &#173; we took the decision to create the capital
markets division, and the team was L&eacute;opold Jeorger and Patrick Duverger.
We were starting from scratch. I had in mind that it was risky. I was afraid of
the ups and downs of the market, however confident I was in the long term. The
portfolio can produce between Ffr500 million and Ffr800 million of profit
annually, which we use, depending on the state of our reserves.

<P> Now why is it considered dangerous? Why are the Anglo-Saxons against this
sort of strategy? I don't know. They say it's illiquid. But it's much more liquid
than a credit risk. To securitize a wholesale loan to a big corporation is not
very easy, but to sell stocks on the stock exchange is not very difficult. In my
opinion, it's liquid, and the internal return is 11%. I can't see the scandal in
that. I'm not defending it &#173; it is as it is.

<P> Also, if we had it in mind to make an acquisition, we could liquidate our
portfolio. Perhaps we have too much real estate in our portfolio &#173; about
Ffr12 billion. It's a bit too much. In any case, if we were to make an
acquisition we'd have large possibilities. We can sell part of the portfolio
&#173; though not the real estate under current conditions &#173; and we can tap
the capital markets, because we are big enough. We are increasing our own capital
ourselves, by 10% a year. Two-thirds of our profits goes into capital. We pay our
dividend in shares. Our employees subscribed for Ffr942 million this year. We
could easily issue a convertible bond. Our position is sound.

<P> <B>You do have the strongest credit rating of any private French bank.</B>

<P> But it's not a very good one: AA minus. We were double-A, and were downgraded
with a demonstration which I didn't like very much: "You're a good bank, but
you're a French bank." I can understand that. I don't like it, but I understand
it.

<P> <B>So the stock portfolio could be easily liquidated, and the markets like
you. It would be easy to find the money for an acquisition. But there's a
perception that you're very acquisition-averse, especially on the capital markets
side. Have you been deciding that these companies are far too expensive and that
if you're going to go into it you'll do it organically? You haven't made any
major acquisitions.</B>

<P> That's true. We made one medium-sized acquisition in the UK, buying Touche
Remnant &#173; and selling it back three years later. It was not a
misunderstanding. It was a misperception of the nature of the beast.

<P> Why should we buy CIC? I don't know. It has a market share. And potentially
we can move it from a 3.5% return on equity to between 8% and 10%. It would take
two or three years. Is it worthwhile? It would involve many people, and cost a
lot of energy. It would improve our market share by only 4%, but it's not a bad
idea to be strong domestically. But it might be too energy-consuming, if we have
other targets.

<P> Today, the accent is on developing investment banking, both domestically and
abroad. We had hoped to make an acquisition in the US: Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette
(DLJ)<B>.</B> In my opinion, it was too expensive at $2.5 billion, and didn't fit
with our plans. It is and was a very good and well-managed firm. They were
concerned with their own interests. They didn't want to change, whereas we wanted
to develop joint projects in America and south-east Asia. And finally I'm not so
sure it was for sale. Because it belongs to Equitable, and makes most of the
profits of Equitable. They had a wonderful life, because they had a shareholder
who didn't care what they were doing, because they were doing it very well. So
finally they went to the stock exchange. But it was interesting for us to
investigate and to talk.

<P> Then we brought in a consultant, who advised us not to buy anything in the
US. There are no examples of big successes in that field. So we came back to a
brick-by-brick development plan. This doesn't prevent or exclude buying small
companies, but not a huge acquisition. At the time we were contemplating DLJ, I
think we were also a bit too young. I'm afraid we would have become a subsidiary
of DLJ, which was not exactly my ambition. So there was reason not to do it.

<P> When the London opportunities came up, I must confess I was not interested.
SG Warburg, Barings: it was just intuition. I didn't want them. There is one good
firm: Schroders. But it's not for sale. That's because it's so good. And it would
be very expensive today.

<P> So we need to find one way or another of financing in dollars: that's what we
are short of. And direct access is simplest. I don't know if we'll succeed. We've
put some energy in that, and earned some money. You can say it is very ambitious,
or not &#173; if you're comparing it with the acquisition of DLJ. We will expand
in London, and in Hong Kong. Perhaps we will make an acquisition there, but it
will be a small, specialized firm. We are looking at the way that ABN Amro has
developed its business in the US. It's true: we're not very acquisition-minded.
If we can't buy cheap, we won't buy.

<P> <B>You've been here both before and after privatization. What difference does
it make?</B>

<P> I think that Soci&eacute;t&eacute; G&eacute;n&eacute;rale post-privatization
is a very sound operation, for many reasons. First of all there's the chairman's
position. You don't have to report to the treasury any more. It's very
interesting to see how long it takes the treasury to understand that. Six months
after we were privatized, Trichet gave me a call: "Marc, why haven't you sent me
your monthly accounting report?"

<P> You can say what you like in the newspapers. That's something. Second, you
are much more concerned with return on equity and results. We were state-owned
for 42 years. In that time, the game was not to pay dividends, because the state
was such a bad shareholder: it never put any fresh money into the banks. So we
were hiding the profits as much as we could.

<P> This had an effect on people's behaviour. They were not concerned with
profits. If you demonstrate that you're profitable, you lose. State-owned banks
are totally free from any concern with return, and I think this is bad.

<P> The employees have also had a different perception since privatization. They
see that it is a different bank: that you have to behave properly, be profitable
and so on. The fact that 8% of the bank's capital is owned by employees is
another element.

<P> It also helps if we want to make an acquisition: we can pay for it in stocks
instead of cash. We haven't used this approach yet, but stock is a way of paying
for something. On the other side, it makes you vulnerable to acquisition.

<P> We went through a difficult period. Corporate raiders managed to get 14% of
the stock. At that time I discovered the importance of the board, which until
then I thought of more as a bore than a help. I managed to convince the board
that they should resist. I simply said that while the raiders had 14%, they
didn't bring anything to the bank. There was no synergy. They were asking for
some seats on the board, and we said no. The day that they had 51%, we'd leave.
But before that, no. It was an interesting moment in the life of the bank. And
the board was a good board in my opinion.

<P> One of Trichet's targets is that we should have all the actors privatized and
playing by the same rules. If, for reasons which are beyond me, we have to
maintain a state-owned group, it should be asked to get and maintain a specified
return on equity. But I'm dreaming, eh?

<P> <B>It's not going to happen?</B>

<P> Yes, I think it will. But it will take some time. The EU will apply pressure
on all the singular features of the French marketplace.

<P> <B>If you tell an English or American analyst that in two or three years
we'll see high return on equity and low costs, they'll laugh at you.</B>

<P> That's fine by me. It protects French banks from takeover. So keep them
saying that. Tell them we're old-fashioned and that there's no hope for the
future. No, I'm optimistic.

<p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT22-B31-84</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA029-000311-B048-22</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.emwl.com:80/contents/publications/euromoney/em.96/em.96.06/em.96.06.7.html 194.217.137.48 19970114132014 text/html 30239
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: WN/1.17.2
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 13:19:20 GMT
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 12:33:00 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 30004
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Title: EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<!--created by Oyster Systems-->
<!--May 1996-->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
EMWL: Euromoney Magazine: June 1996
</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<!--START_TAG_SPACE-->
<!--00008600 Portugal -->
<!--END_TAG_SPACE-->
<body bgcolor="FFFFFF" vlink="7C1568" text="000000" link="7C1568">

<center>

<table border=0>
<tr>
<td colspan=2 align=left>
<nobr>
<img width=199 height=44 name="top" border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../images/conban7.gif" alt="Euromoney Magazine"><a href="../../../../../index.html"><img width=141 height=45 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../images/conban1.gif" alt="EMWL Home"></a>
</nobr>
<br>
</td>
</tr>
<font size=3>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td valign=top>
<h2>
June 1996
</h2>
</td>
</tr> 

<tr>
<td valign=top align=left>
<img width=121 height=34 src="../../../images/conra9.gif" alt="Feature">
</td>
<td valign=top align=left>
<H3>PORTUGAL</H3>
<H2>To stay or to go? </H2>
<H4>Foreign banks were attracted to Portugal by the infrastructure and privatization
boom of the mid-1980s. Now they are finding the going much tougher. The
battle to lend to large corporates has reached fever pitch and margins are
so eroded that some players are having doubts about their future in the
country. Nick Kochan reports </H4>
Foreign banks in Portugal are having to take serious decisions about their
future. With market growth slowing and competition increasing, a change
of strategy is the least that is needed and some players have decided to
quit altogether. Others have adopted a halfway-house position, such as cutting
staff and moving operations to Madrid. <BR>
<BR>
Of the departing banks, the most notable recent example was Chemical Banking
Corporation, which prior to its merger with Chase sold a controlling stake
in Banco Chemical (Portugal) to the industrial and financial concern run
by Antonio Champalimaud in February. Before that, in 1992, Lloyds sold a
substantial retail chain to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya. Those that have compromised
include Chase, which reduced its Lisbon branch to a representative office
and transferred lending to Madrid. Banque National de Paris has cut down
its branch network after reporting hefty provisions and a restructuring.
<BR>
<BR>
But some foreign banks are made of sterner stuff and refuse to give up even
after an abject failure. Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais, for example, has been in
Portugal for close to 100 years and shows no signs of leaving. In 1994 this
stalwart of the retail and small corporate sector lost all its capital and
had to go cap in hand to Paris to request a complete recapitalization. In
1995 it announced a provision of over Esc10 billion ($63.3 million) for
a Esc230 billion balance sheet. Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais has reduced its staff
from 600 to 330, cut costs massively, and completely changed its business
profile. <BR>
<BR>
Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais was brought down by massive bad loans, the result
of its exposure to the small and medium-sized corporate sector. Managing
director Bernard Chantrelle says the bank has learnt its lesson and is now
pursuing big corporates, multinationals and the top 150 Portuguese companies.
Building a new position in this sector will not be helped by the bank's
reputation for mismanagement and bad judgement, nor by the fact that virtually
every other foreign bank wants to break into it as well. <BR>
<BR>
The battle for lending to the large Portuguese corporates has now reached
fever pitch, because the demand for credit is shrinking and all the banks
are scrabbling for a share. Growth in demand for credit fell from 12% in
1994 to 10% in 1995, and the decline accelerated in early 1996. Analysts
put the decline down to changes in treasury financing policy and falling
investment by manufacturing companies. The effect on the banks has been
dramatic, says Barclays director for corporate finance, Marcos Lagoa. &quot;The
market is extremely competitive, quality corporate assets are very rare
and margins are paper-thin. A three-month short-term loan to Electricidade
de Portugal could have a margin over interbank rate of one-sixteenth. We
demand a return on capital of a minimum of three-eighths, so the present
situation is ridiculous.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
While foreign banks are bidding down rates to win over some of the key local
clients, they are also having to compete with an increasingly aggressive
local banking sector. Says Joao do Carmo Salvado, the executive director
of Deutsche Bank de Investimento: &quot;The easy times have come to an end
because the local banks have become more efficient.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
ABN-Amro's general director, Jan Panman, says: &quot;Portuguese banks are
becoming more aggressive. Up till now, foreign banks have benefited from
Portugal's growth, but now the local banks are saying, 'Why can't we have
our share of it?' It is very difficult to compete with Portuguese banks
in bidding for business from a local company. But when local companies go
overseas, we have an advantage.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The competitive environment in Portugal has been transformed by the recent
merger of some of the country's largest banks. New local corporations<B>
</B>have been created, led by the high-flying, predominantly retail, Banco
Comercial Portugues, which merged in 1995 with Banco Portugues do Atlantico.
Other conglomerates have been built, following mergers led by Banco Totta
e Acores, Banco Espirito Santo and Banco Mello. <BR>
<BR>
The government wants to support this part of the private sector and the
once-generous favours dished out to foreign banks are drying up. &quot;The
privatized banks have much more lobbying capacity than we do,&quot; says
Deutsche's Salvado. &quot;Foreign banks cannot compete for influence with
the local banks in winning big-ticket privatizations. They have good contacts,
good political influence.&quot; Local banks tacitly accept Salvado's point,
merely saying that every market favours its own. <BR>
<BR>
<B>A saturated market</B> <BR>
<BR>
This makes protecting corporate customer bases and mining the private sector
for all it is worth all the more necessary. &quot;You can forget the spectacular
growth we have enjoyed in the past,&quot; says Panman. &quot;It is much
tougher now to bring in new clients. Now it is a case of continuing to serve
well the existing clients you have. The market is saturated.&quot; Multinational
banks can still score by adding value with their international networks.
For example, ABN-Amro helped set up bank accounts and credit for the second-largest
Portuguese retailer, Jeronimo Martins, when it established an operation
in Poland. <BR>
<BR>
Foreign banks also expect to benefit from acquisitions being considered
by Portuguese companies in Spain and Brazil. They may also assist Portuguese
banks by conducting due diligence on international companies making investments
in Portugal or seeking loans from Portuguese banks. <BR>
<BR>
The ferocious competition is just as evident in retail banking, where foreign
operators may have to deal with cultural as well as official prejudices.
The growing number of players bidding for savings has contributed to a squeeze
in interest margins. They have fallen from a peak of 6% six years ago, when
many retail banks set up operations, to 3% today. <BR>
<BR>
This tough situation may eventually persuade some banks to pull out of retail
credit altogether, but for the moment some are engaged in what may turn
out to be suicidal competition. According to Lagoa, instead of closing branches
and making bankers redundant, banks are trying to find work for their staff
by allowing them to make loans at unrealistic rates. &quot;It is difficult
to sack people, and instead of making efficiencies banks have tried to grow
by opening branches - and they have paid highly to tempt in deposits.&quot;
The implications for bank profits are ominous, he says, since two-thirds
of deposits are not invested in highly profitable credits but in low-yielding
government bonds. &quot;The difference between a standard-term treasury
bill rate and term deposit is, in many cases, zero. So if banks are taking
three-month deposits and the bank buys a three-month treasury bill, banks
are making nothing.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
A report by analysts at ING Barings highlights the foreign banks' problem
in building a secure place in Portugal. &quot;Their relatively low share
of total deposits indicates the difficulties they have faced in capturing
market share and also reflects the fact that the majority of the business
is in the wholesale rather than retail segment of the market.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) has taken a more optimistic view at a time
when competitors are busy retreating, having set up an office in late 1994.
The bank has broadly four targets: commercial banking for the top 150 Portuguese
corporates; corporate finance oriented towards privatizations; derivative
products and risk management; and asset management. <BR>
<BR>
UBS is bullish about the Portuguese economy, expecting annual GNP growth
of 2.5% in 1996 and 3% in 1997. Portugal still lags behind the EU average
for GDP per capita, but UBS expects it to start to catch up over the medium
term. Two areas particularly interest UBS: privatization and asset management
for Portuguese pension funds. <BR>
<BR>
UBS has a good record of winning Portuguese privatization mandates. It was
joint global coordinator (with Merrill Lynch, Banco Essi and SBC Warburg)
for the sale of 27% of Portugal Telecom in June 1995; it led the international
tranche for the first part of the privatization of the Portucel paper and
pulp company; and it will be lead manager for the international tranche
of Cimpor (the leading cement company) in the summer of 1996. It expects
to take similar roles in the privatization of electricity company Electricidade
de Portugal (expected early 1997) and the air traffic control system, ANA.
<BR>
<BR>
UBS's interest in Portuguese pension funds is more speculative. Portuguese
pension funds are predominantly invested locally because of the traditional
view that escudo liabilities should be invested in escudo instruments. Although
permitted to invest up to 20% overseas, Portuguese pension funds have only
around 2% invested internationally. However, UBS managing director in Portugal,
Rui Costa Santos, expects Portuguese fund managers to adopt international
standards and seek diversification through a wider international asset spread.
&quot;They should be required to invest a minimum of 20% of their assets
abroad,&quot; he says. <BR>
<BR>
UBS also sees an embryonic demand for derivatives. Rui Costa Santos says
the bank has recently completed two deals where risk management instruments
were required. &quot;It is an area where we anticipate growth,&quot; he
says. In August 1995 the bank swapped a $50 million fixed-rate French franc
loan into fixed-rate escudos for electricity company Electricidade de Portugal.
UBS expects derivatives activity to be boosted when the Oporto futures exchange
opens on June 20. <BR>
<BR>
American banks take a far less bullish view of Portugal than Europeans and
many are downgrading their positions in the country. Neither Merrill Lynch
nor Bankers Trust have local offices, although both have teams in Madrid
which regularly visit Lisbon. Project finance has been a useful area for
Americans, and during the heady days of the early 1990s one of the star
performers was Chase Manhattan. Chase made its splash when it led the project-finance
consortium to supply $1 billion of funds for the second bridge over the
Tagus. That project appears not to have given Chase the status in the country
that it might have hoped for, so its retrenchment to a representative office
was predictable. However, it still hopes to find a niche supplying cross-border
derivatives-based structures to local corporates. <BR>
<BR>
Chase's vice-president corporate finance, Susan Soskin, expects derivatives
and broader risk management instruments to play a growing role in the Portuguese
marketplace. &quot;Our interest is to add value with structured finance
applications: that is something the local banks cannot provide.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
<B>Project-finance expertise</B> <BR>
<BR>
The largest European investment banks are already muscling in with instruments
that make use of their foreign exchange and technical expertise. Deutsche's
Salvado has shown the Portuguese how tax-driven leases can help finance
their infrastructure projects. His bank arranged a Dm200 million ($65 million)
tax-based lease to the Lisbon subway to finance the acquisition of rolling
stock. While local banks pitched in with domestic finance based on medium-term
loans, Deutsche offered a tax-efficient German cross-border full payout
lease and the deal was swapped from floating-rate escudos to fixed-rate
Deutschmarks. The lease has an 18-year term and Deutsche's Salvado says
the final cost of the deal was below Libor. The lease broke new ground in
transport finance in Portugal and Salvado says he is now pitching at other
rolling-stock purchasers, such as the company building the second (railway)
bridge across the River Tagus - to be called the Vasco Da Gama bridge -
and the builders of the metro in Oporto. <BR>
<BR>
Deutsche also has a record in Portuguese project finance established when
it advised National Power, the winning bidder for the Pego coal-fired power
station project, in the first non-recourse finance, build-operate-transfer
scheme in Portugal. The bank is now working with NatWest, ABN-Amro and CISF
in providing swap facilities for the financing of a new combined-cycle gas
and coal power plant. The UK's political and cultural ties with the country
have enabled it to gain a presence in Portuguese retail that only the French
can rival. Barclays is now the primary British representative in this sector
- after Lloyds withdrew by selling its network to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya.
<BR>
<BR>
Barclays set up operations in the country 10 years ago as a commercial bank
for the corporate sector. But it repositioned itself in 1990 as predominantly
a retail bank. Barclays Portugal - with Esc300 billion in assets, the largest
foreign bank in the country - has built up a 70-strong branch network, predominantly
in the Lisbon and Oporto area, and targets individuals of medium to high
net worth, in particular Portuguese yuppies, who made their money during
the boom years of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Marketing manager Luis
Rocha dos Reis says the bank is aiming to sell lending and advice to people
aged between 30 and 45 with annual earnings of between Esc700,000 and Esc1
million. <BR>
<BR>
The bank supplies such high earners with mortgages, which it regards as
a profitable use of funds, and credit, a growing business with some obvious
hazards. Rocha do Reis highlights credit control and warns that credit scoring
and checking is relatively unsophisticated in Portugal as there is no system
for banks and credit houses to share consumer data and monitor individual
loans. <BR>
<BR>
The bank also complains about Portuguese consumer resistance to paying for
banking services, such as the use of advanced automated teller machines,
overdrafts and investment advice. &quot;There's very little tradition of
paying for banking services,&quot; says Barclays' Lagoa. &quot;Basically,
margins have been so high that banks have provided their services for free.
Now that banks have seen a dramatic shrinking of margins, they want to start
charging and there has been enormous resistance. When you start charging
for anything, there is a small revolution.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The resistance to bank charges is particularly ingrained in the older generation,
who may in any case be unfamiliar with more sophisticated products. &quot;It
can be extremely difficult to sell the simplest unit trust to very rich
private banking customers,&quot; says Lagoa. &quot;If you say there is a
subscription charge, they will say they are not interested, and move on.&quot;
However, Portugal's yuppies are much more receptive to new banking products
and are also prepared to pay for them, hence the attraction of the segment.
<BR>
<BR>
The situation with corporate banking services is not much different. BPI's
managing director, Manuel Ferreira da Silva, says that foreign banks' insistence
on being paid fees for advice has been a useful corrective to traditional
attitudes. &quot;Portuguese companies are used to paying high interest rates,
but they are not used to paying fees. Foreign banks have educated them in
the requirements of modern banking.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Given the problems foreign banks have had making a name for themselves in
Portugal under their own banner, it is perhaps not surprising that a number
have sought to buy into the market indirectly by taking investments in existing
banks. Perhaps the most impressive foreign investor is UBS, which holds
a 9% stake in Banco ESSI, the investment-banking arm of Banco Espirito Santo,
and a 2% stake in Banco Portugues de Investimento (BPI). Another significant
player, by proxy, in the Portuguese market is Spain's Banco Centro Hispanoamericano,
which owns 20% of Banco Comercial Portugues. <BR>
<BR>
Most Spanish banks have had a fairly unhappy experience in the Portuguese
market. For example, Spaniards are still reeling from the public relations
beating Banesto received when it was forced to sell up its stake in Banco
Totta &amp; Acores. This followed a Portuguese government decision that
Banesto had not acquired the Totta stake properly. According to BPI's managing
director, Manuel<B> </B>Ferreira da Silva, this has deterred some Spanish
banks from investing in Portugal. Banco Santander do Negocios has a respectable
record in Portugal as an investment bank, but when it sought to cut a dash
in the retail sector it came across some cultural resistance. <BR>
<BR>
BPI sold its banking chain - called Banco Comercio a Industria - to Banco
Santander; however, the Spaniards are finding it difficult to run the bank
successfully, according to Ferreira da Silva: &quot;There is a problem of
mentality, both with clients and in the internal management.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Foreign banking in Portugal goes back to the last century, when French and
British banks dealing with trade finance set up offices in the country.
They developed small branch networks, but for a long time had a near-monopoly
of private-sector banking. No other foreign banks made significant attempts
to compete for the business, and the only competitors to the key Europeans
- Lloyds (formerly Bank of London and South America), Cr&eacute;dit Lyonnais
and Banco do Brasil - were cumbersome state banks led by Caixa General de
Depositos. <BR>
<BR>
However, they failed to capitalize on these opportunities and when the system
was liberalized in the mid-1980s, the European networks were among the weakest.
The Europeans were also confronted with growing competition from other foreign
banks which, tempted by high interest margins and a changing macro-economic
environment, started to play the Portuguese game. The privatization of the
economy was the carrot that brought in US players such as Chase, Citibank
and Merrill Lynch. Portugal yielded all that had been expected of it in
terms of privatization mandates, project finance deals and treasury issues.
<BR>
<BR>
By the mid-1990s, much of the Portuguese economic transformation had been
accomplished, both in terms of building physical infrastructure and privatization.
Hence the waning interest of foreign banks as they started to find the country
a much harder place to do business. <BR>
<BR>
The ferocity of the competition and a rather less bullish outlook for the
Portuguese economy than once anticipated must regularly prompt shareholders
to pose the question: &quot;Should we stay or should we go?&quot; BPI'S
Ferreira da Silva expects some banks to take the second route. &quot;The
market is too small for so many global players. There is not enough profit
to be made here and, in due course, I expect many of them to lose their
commitment to the country.&quot; That may be wishful thinking on the part
of the local banker who has no choice but to persevere. But it may also
be accurate. <BR><BR><BR>
<H2>BCP's positive disturbance </H2>
<H4>Launched 10 years ago, Banco Comercial Portugues has shaken up the sector
and become Portugal's second-largest bank. But there's still more to come.
It plans further aggressive expansion based on acquisitions, joint ventures
and brand development </H4>
Banco Comercial Portugues (BCP) has large ambitions. It not only wants to
set the standards for banking in Portugal, but also to be recognized as
a European bank on a par with its Spanish counterparts. &quot;We want investors
to see us as a proxy for the local market and also as an alternative to
an investment in other southern European banks,&quot; says Acacio Jaime
Piloto, head of the capital markets division at BCP's investment banking
arm, Banco CISF. To achieve this, BCP has had to grow fast. It recently
paid Esc150 billion for control of the larger but less dynamic Banco Portugues
do Atlantico (BPA). The deal has not been universally acclaimed and there
is some concern that BCP has bitten off more than it can chew. <BR>
<BR>
The acquisition was resisted by BPA's shareholders and for some time the
government's attitude was in doubt. This was a crucial factor as the state
still owned 24.5% of the bank, although its complete privatization was planned.
When the state eventually gave the takeover the go-ahead, BCP's managers
were seen as all-conquering heroes. <BR>
<BR>
Now BCP is having to fork out for the acquisition. It has presented US fund
managers with a request for $250 million, for which the bank will issue
convertible preference shares this month. The shares will have a fixed dividend
of around 7% and the bank has an option to call at the end of year seven.
&quot;The capital raised has the beauty of being a tier one instrument from
scratch,&quot; says Piloto. &quot;Instead of issuing subordinated debt in
the euro or yankee markets at a spread over Libor, we are selling equity
at a premium and diversifying our investor base.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
The convertible preference shares follow the launch of a rights issue of
27 million new shares in May and are expected to raise roughly the same
amount ($250 million). That brings BCP shares in issue to 137 million. With
a $1.7 billion market capitalization at the middle of May, BCP is the largest
stock listed on the Lisbon Stock Exchange. <BR>
<BR>
To top up the coffers to pay for BPA, BCP issued $500 million of floating-rate
dividend-preferred stock on the Euromarkets last year. The issue was in
big demand and its size was increased twice. Says Piloto: &quot;When we
were trying to find synergies between the two banks, we thought it much
wiser to issue preferred stock than an equity package. Now we are ready
to show some cost-efficiencies that were not possible in September.&quot;
<BR>
<BR>
<B>The search for synergy</B> <BR>
<BR>
BCP has said it is keeping the BPA brand and extensive BPA branch network,
even though there are overlaps. &quot;We want to merge the operations of
the two banks and reduce costs,&quot; says BCP's chairman, Jorge Jardim
Goncalves. &quot;We also want to keep the BPA name. BPA is a benchmark in
the financial system and if you don't keep the name, you reduce the bank's
authority and franchise.&quot; <BR>
<BR>
Goncalves says the merger is already delivering results, although he says
these will be measurable only when the two banks have a &quot;common information
platform&quot;. Goncalves is clear that &quot;from the viewpoint of fees,
income and commission, BPA is already delivering&quot;. BPA's sales of insurance
policies have grown tenfold and there has been a rise in BPA's unit trust
sales. BCP has also labelled a credit card with the BPA name and launched
a demand deposit account through the bank. Says Goncalves: &quot;BPA is
and was an excellent bank. Its problem was the long process of privatization.
This was very bad for BPA's management and our takeover has given the bank
stability.&quot; Observers question whether the takeover and blending of
BCP's aggressive culture with BPA's more traditional style has gone quite
so smoothly. <BR>
<BR>
In any event, BPA has given BCP a testbed for the high management standards
that made its start-up in 1986 so successful. The launch was characterized
by clear standards and entrepreneurial zeal. The standards of management,
accounting and service followed were based on international rather than
Portuguese models and local customers were impressed. &quot;BCP has helped
the country demonstrate a new entrepreneurialism. We think we are the model
for the best Portuguese business practice,&quot; says managing director
Antonio Rodriguez. <BR>
<BR>
In 10 years, BCP has won a dominant position, with 750 branches and a substantial
wholesale and investment banking reputation. &quot;We wanted to disturb
the market in a positive way. The system did not welcome us,&quot; says
Antonio Castro Henriques, a main board member. Today, the bank is second
in size to state-owned Caixa Geral de Depositos and dominates asset management
and insurance. <BR>
<BR>
BCP was the first Portuguese private banking initiative - 200 individuals
clubbed together to put up Esc3.5 billion of seed capital. BCP later expanded
its capital when it listed on the Lisbon Stock Exchange in 1987. In 1992,
it made an ADR issue in New York. <BR>
<BR>
The timing of the bank's start-up was propitious. Portugal's place in the
world and the banks' scope for making money locally were both changing.
Portugal was about to join the EU and the government was relaxing its grip
on interest rates. The banking sector was largely state-controlled and inefficient.
<BR>
<BR>
The imposition of professional management was a prerequisite for success.
Founding chairman Jorge Jardim Goncalves, who still runs the bank, was plucked
from the top job at Banco Portugues do Atlantico to lead the new institution.
He was given a free hand to appoint the best bankers in the country without
obligations to a family or large shareholders - which exist in many Portuguese
banks. <BR>
<BR>
He introduced the banking technique which became BCP's hallmark - the segmentation
of banking services by customer profile. BCP branded six groups of services:
individual retail banking, commercial retail banking, private banking, the
mass-market branch network, small business banking and telephone banking.
<BR>
<BR>
Care was taken to differentiate the branded banking services, says Antonio
Castro Henriques, but managers in each branch were pushed to cross-sell
products. &quot;Our employees assimilate the culture of cross-selling right
from the moment they join,&quot; he says. BCP distinguishes its services
targeted at individuals and those meant for firms by sending private and
commercial customers to different floors of the building, and having different
teams of staff to serve them. It differentiates its private banking operations
even more sharply: these are based in unmarked villas in Lisbon, furnished
more like a hotel than a bank. <BR>
<BR>
BCP has joint ventures with foreign banks where the banks swap minority
positions. BCP says it does not want to own a foreign bank, merely access
to foreign markets. Partners get access to its own network and markets.
<BR>
<BR>
BCP's 3% stake in Spanish bank Banco Central Hispanoamericano (BCH) is the
best example, giving BCP access to the Spanish market. BCH owns 20% of BCP
and has access to Portugal. Curiously, BCH is limited by BCP's statute to
vote only 10% of its shares. In another deal with BCH, the two banks jointly
own private bank Banif Banqueros Personales. <BR>
<BR>
Other joint ventures include a link with the Spanish Banco Popular Espanol
in Paris. BCP also has a stake in Banco International de Mocambique and
in Mexican bank BITAL. <BR>
<BR>
Goncalves' hunger for expansion has been temporarily satisfied by BPA, but
local bankers expect it to re-emerge. &quot;Goncalves is a man of growth,
not of consolidation and contraction,&quot; says one. &quot;He has done
well for shareholders and for himself. But what now? He has clearly outgrown
Portugal - where he goes from here is anybody's guess.&quot; <p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<nobr>
<a href="index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Back a Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt1.gif" alt="Back"></a>
<a href="../../../../../services/faqs.html" onMouseOver="window.status='Help';return true"><img width=22 height=22 hspace=90 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt2.gif" alt="Help"></a>
<a href="#top" onMouseOver="window.status='Top of the Page';return true"><img width=22 height=22 border=0 src="../../../../../images/navt3.gif" alt="Top"></a>
</nobr>
<br><br>

<nobr>
<a href="../../../../../alert/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='ALERT - Discussion Groups, Latest News, Site Updates, Sponsors and Events Diary';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav1.gif" alt="Alert"></a><a href="../../../../../search/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SEARCH - Keyword and Structured Searches';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav2.gif" alt="Search"></a><a href="../../../../../services/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='SERVICES - FAQs, Feedback, Problems and EMWL Team';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav3.gif" alt="Services"></a><a href="../../../../../contents/index.html" onMouseOver="window.status='CONTENTS - Publications, World Map, Product Sections and Data';return true"><img width=120 height=31 border=0 hspace=0 src="../../../../../images/nav44.gif" alt="Contents"></a>
</nobr>
</font>

<br><br>
<font size=2>
All material subject to strictly enforced copyright laws. 1996&copy; <a href="MAILTO:pbrady@pobox.com">Euromoney Publications PLC.</a>
</font>
<br>

</center>
</body>
</html>
</DOC>
