<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-1</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B046-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/lemann.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117202007 text/html 30468
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:19:44 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:13 GMT
Content-length: 30262
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Philadelphia: Black Nationalism on Campus
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>January 1993</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Philadelphia: Black Nationalism<br> on Campus

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Nicholas Lemann</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>Conversations with students at Penn and Temple show that black nationalism 
and assimilation are not the opposites they appear to be.</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>F</font>rom a white perspective, what looks like a sensible way to evaluate the 
thinking of black America is to imagine an axis with a cluster of views at 
each end. One cluster is politically liberal and culturally separatist; 
the other is conservative and assimilationist. Individual blacks' views 
can be plotted somewhere along the axis, with black-power and 
welfare-rights advocates falling near one cluster and conservatives who 
preach self-help near the other.<p>

Something like this model informs a great deal of the public discussion of 
black issues, so that the inner life of black America comes across in the 
white press as being dominated by an argument between positions roughly 
corresponding to white liberalism and white conservatism. But quite often 
bits of information emerge that indicate that the white categories aren't 
neatly applicable to black thought.<p>

After President George Bush nominated Clarence Thomas for the Supreme 
Court, it emerged that in his college days this emblem of black 
conservatism had been a fan of Malcolm X. A few months later Vice 
President Dan Quayle came upon the Nation of Islam and commended it as an 
example of family values. In contrast to prominent Republicans' strange 
receptivity to black nationalism, Democrats seemed to go out of their way 
to condemn it. Back in the days when he was politically on the ropes, Bill 
Clinton helped revive his campaign by picking a fight with Sister Souljah, 
a nationalist lecturer and rapper. Arthur Schlesinger Jr., practically the 
embodiment of the post-Second World War liberal tradition, wrote a book 
attacking black-nationalist excesses in the education system.<p>

What's really going on in black America, then, doesn't fit the white 
categories. The main event intellectually for blacks seems to be ethnic 
and cultural identity, not the tensions between rich and poor, government 
and business, or labor and capital. To some extent it was ever thus. But 
black America traditionally was a thing unto itself, mostly poor and 
almost completely segregated. Its internal debates didn't matter to 
whites. The never-ending argument over black identity continues on its own 
terms, not the outside world's--only now it will probably have a growing 
effect on the outside world.<p>

Today black America is, as it always was, substantially poor, 
working-poor, and working-class, and substantially segregated, but its 
college-educated, white-collar middle class has grown significantly. This 
growth is the good news in American race relations. In the old days, 
before civil rights and before the mass migration to the North, it could 
be argued that better-off blacks had less contact with whites than poor 
blacks did: the poor often worked for whites as domestics and farm 
laborers, whereas the middle class often ran all-black institutions like 
churches, segregated schools, and funeral parlors. Now the reverse is 
true. Poor blacks are likely to be unemployed and to live in all-black 
ghettos, while many middle-class blacks work, study, and even live side by 
side with whites.<p>

The middle class's drama of ethnic assimilation has been accompanied by an 
unmistakable rise in cultural nationalism. This would seem paradoxical: if 
you're going to be living a whiter life, wouldn't the subject of blackness 
be less consuming? But members of every rising group feel intensely 
conscious of their ethnic identity at the moment that they enter the 
majority culture: they have to wrestle with social prejudice and with 
self-doubt. That is why in the black middle class, which would appear to 
be fulfilling Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream, not Malcolm X's, Malcolm X 
is now a much more important cultural icon than King. King's rhetoric of 
justice, delivered in a southern preacher's cadences, seems to have far 
less to do with the current situation than Malcolm's rhetoric of the 
psychological meaning of blackness. It seems almost inevitable that the 
first big heroic film biography by a black director would be about Malcolm 
X, not King.<p>



Wanting to look at the attitudes of upwardly mobile African-Americans on 
their own terms, rather than viewing them through the lens of national 
political debate, I recently spent some time talking to black students at 
two universities in Philadelphia: Temple and Penn.<p>

Temple University is a big, state-supported school that has always catered 
to ambitious people from modest backgrounds. Its campus is encircled by 
trucks that serve every conceivable ethnic variation on the theme of the 
cheap, quick hot lunch, and that collectively underscore Temple's 
working-class aura. Temple has what might be the largest number of black 
students of any predominantly white university in America--nearly 5,000 in 
a student body of 33,000--and it is in North Philadelphia, a black 
neighborhood.<p>

The University of Pennsylvania is an Ivy League school, much smaller, much 
more prosperous, and populated mainly by the children of college-educated, 
upper-middle-class parents; among its black students last year were the 
sons of William Gray, the head of the United Negro College Fund, and 
Harold Ford, the congressman from Memphis. Out of a total of 11,000 
undergraduates, Penn has only 700 who are black. Its campus is on the edge 
of West Philadelphia, which is generally thought of as a black ghetto. 
Whereas Temple has the feeling of being part of a black neighborhood, Penn 
has the feeling of being threatened by a black neighborhood. Temple's 
race-relations problems have a brawling, blue-collar cast--for example, 
the school was briefly home to a white student union that was sympathetic 
to David Duke's National Association for the Advancement of White 
People--whereas Penn's are played out more politely but may be more 
severe. Each school is home to one of the most famous black professors in 
the country, but the difference between them is emblematic: Penn's black 
superstar is Houston Baker Jr., an English professor who, in addition to 
being the founder and head of Penn's Center for the Study of Black 
Literature and Culture, is the current president of the leading mainstream 
organization in his field, the Modern Language Association. Temple's is 
Molefi Asante, the leader of the Afrocentrist movement, who is revered 
within his discipline and generally scorned outside it.<p>

The people I spoke with at the two schools were not really a 
representative sampling, because I picked people with nationalist 
inclinations; I wanted to parse nationalism, not conduct a survey on its 
popularity. For these students, the power of nationalism is that it 
addresses all their major preoccupations, intellectual, psychological, and 
economic: it can be studied as an academic subject, it is a natural part 
of the adolescent identity crisis, and it provides a way of framing career 
decisions. I got the feeling, though, that in the long run nationalism, 
which appears to be a rejection of assimilationism, will bring most of 
them closer to the center of American life.<p>



The outside world probably views black nationalism as an anti-white, 
separatist ideology that grew out of the black-power movement of the 1960s 
and posits a withdrawal by blacks from the language, culture, values, and 
economy of white America. Actually, prominent black-nationalist figures 
had emerged by the middle of the nineteenth century (the novel Blake, or 
The Hats of America, by Martin Delany, is a nationalist riposte to Uncle 
Tom's Cabin), and a nationalist strain can be discerned in the thinking of 
many or even most of the leading actors in African-American history. For 
example, Wilson Moses, in his book The Golden Age of Black Nationalism, 
1850-1925, refers to Booker T. Washington's views as "technocratic black 
nationalism," and also devotes a chapter to arguing that Washington's 
archrival, W.E.B. DuBois, was a nationalist too: after all, DuBois was 
involved in Pan-African movements for most of his life, and died a citizen 
of Ghana. The peak of nationalism as a mass movement came more than three 
quarters of a century ago, during the heyday of Marcus Garvey's Universal 
Negro Improvement Association.<p>

The reason nationalism is so confusing from the point of view of 
traditional white political divisions is that on the one hand, it attempts 
to promote black businesses and other forms of self-help, resists the 
notion that the federal government can help blacks, and is uninterested in 
liberal causes like civil rights and integration, but on the other hand, 
its world view would strike most whites as being left-wing. The 
nationalist tendency would be to mistrust white society and to celebrate 
political-liberation movements around the world, especially in Africa. 
Thus Elijah Muhammad, the founder of the Nation of Islam and a mentor to 
both Malcolm X and Louis Farrakhan, was legendary among blacks as a 
proponent of traditional values, an opponent of drugs and alcohol, a 
nurturer of ghetto small businesses, and a savior of habitual criminals, 
prostitutes, and other hard-core members of the underclass--but he was 
perceived by the larger world, not inaccurately, as a preacher of hatred.<p>

Mass-movement nationalism--Garvey's, Elijah's, and Washington's, too--was 
aimed at a constituency ranging from the very poor up to about the 
independent-artisan or small-farmer level; the black elite was more 
integrationist. But during the late 1960s and early 1970s college-educated 
blacks embraced nationalism, and mass-movement nationalism withered. The 
net result was that nationalism became more a matter of intellectual and 
cultural attitude and less a precise life blueprint. Today there isn't 
much going on in the way of ghetto nationalist organizations striving to 
create entirely black economic institutions--hence the famous lack of 
black-owned grocery stores. The home of nationalism is the campus, and for 
the first time in history many of the leading nationalists are tenured 
professors at majority-white universities rather than leaders of black 
organizations. This creates a difficulty: what are black students who 
embrace nationalism supposed to do after they graduate, since there isn't 
much of a black economy for them to join?<p>




Nearly all the students I met stoutly insisted that they were going to 
find black careers. It seemed that the students at Temple were more likely 
than the ones at Penn actually to do this, because many Temple graduates 
find work in municipal bureaucracies--school systems, welfare 
departments--where the work force is substantially black, whereas Penn 
students are likely to be headed for the professions, which are 
overwhelmingly white. What was noteworthy was the impulse: remaining 
within black America was the right thing to do, and integration was the 
wrong. The rough equivalent for white students, at least at eastern 
liberal-arts colleges, would be the choice between working for "social 
change" and pursuing a business career. You hear allegiance pledged to the 
former but find that the path actually followed in most cases is closer to 
the latter.<p>

Why is integration perceived as bad? First, because the students see black 
America as being in a crisis--one that they, as its most fortunate 
children, are morally obliged to try to help solve. Second, because 
embracing integration looks perilously similar to rejecting blackness, 
one's own and the rest of the race's. Finally, because they perceive life 
in white America as being a constant, endless, draining struggle against 
prejudice. This last point touches on one of the great differences between 
blacks' and whites' views of American life. Many whites see being black, 
once you've made it out of the ghetto, as a big advantage: they think 
blacks are constantly getting little breaks that whites don't. Many blacks 
have exactly the opposite view: race will always be an extra burden. The 
cost of housing is higher for blacks. The risk of crime is higher. Nearly 
every social relationship with whites eventually arrives at a chilling 
moment of revelation of the hard inner kernel of racism. At work the 
assumption of inferiority is ever present; affirmative action underscores 
it, but is the only way even to get in the door.<p>

A black college student's nationalism can be divided in half: part of it 
is a working out of one's relationship with black America, and part is the 
working out of one's relationship with white America. The students at 
Temple are more focused on the former, the students at Penn on the latter. 
A Temple student is far likelier than a Penn student to be personally in 
touch with the social and economic disaster in the ghettos, and therefore 
to be looking to nationalism to provide a vision of the meaning of 
blackness which is more uplifting than the daily reality of inner-city 
life.<p>




Afrocentrism, the creed of Temple's African-American Studies Department, 
has been attacked so often for being less an academic discipline than a 
self-esteem enhancement program that its leading figures now routinely 
insist that it isn't therapeutically motivated and aims only to document 
the enduring influences of ancient African civilizations. Still, it's hard 
to find any Afrocentrist material in which the urge to improve the image 
of blackness among blacks isn't detectable.<p>

Molefi Asante has recently been distancing Afrocentrism from the extreme 
wing of academic black nationalism. For example, when I spoke with him, he 
completely dismissed the work of the "melanin theorists"--the best-known 
is the infamous Leonard Jeffries Jr., of the City University of New York, 
but a number of them are scattered around the country--who, incredibly, 
study such matters as whether black infants are superior to white infants 
in "motor skills." (Some of the graduate students I met in the department 
were much more friendly to the melanin theory, however.) Asante also made 
a point of not criticizing whites as a group; instead, he sketched out a 
picture of a pluralistic society in which no group would be "hegemonic" 
and each would be "centered" in its own heritage: "Whites shouldn't have 
to wear Mandinka clothes, and I shouldn't have to wear English suits."<p>

Afrocentrism's intellectual godfather is Cheikh Anta Diop, the author of 
The African Origin of Civilization: Myth or Reality (1974), a Senegalese 
scholar who died in 1986. Culturally, the discipline has connections to 
what's left of the black-power movement. Bobby Seale, the former national 
chairman of the Black Panther Party, is on the staff of the 
African-American Studies Department at Temple, and Asante maintains close 
relations with Maulana Karenga, a professor at California State University 
at Long Beach, who in the 1960s developed a set of African-American 
spiritual concepts and rituals, among them Kwanzaa, a holiday celebrated 
the week after Christmas. Asante views Temple's department, which is the 
only one in the country that grants a Ph.D. in African-American studies, 
as academically mainstream: he requires, for instance, that doctoral 
candidates be able to read the documents used in their research in the 
language in which they were written--often Swahili.<p>

Many of the graduate students in African-American studies at Temple will 
wind up as academic Afrocentrists. Undergraduates who take courses in the 
department tend to want nationalism to provide them with something less 
well defined than a career but more important: an ordering principle by 
which to live. Everybody in an undergraduate group I met with was seeking 
a way to avoid both rejecting black culture and accepting the specific 
culture they had seen around them while they were growing up--a culture 
that one of the students, Major Jackson, who had recently transferred to 
Temple, summarized in an autobiographical poem he wrote:<p>

major.........<p>

the North Philly streets:<p>

the strewn trash, the vacant<p>

lots, the empty houses, the old<p>

     english and <p>

the jamaican top-shelf weed at block<p>

      parties featuring mc chinchillachuckcheba.<p><br><p>


drank gunshots and policemen. got<p>

high on senseless gang-bang deaths<p>

   over<p>

at the blumberg high-rise projects.<p>

   ate<p>

parasitic kisses of fly-girl Rashida<p>

sportin' 1/2-of-Africa's gold reserve,<p>

Adidas sweat suit, and the latest Nike's.<p>


Our conversation was filled with a mixture of embittered wonderment over 
conditions in post-civil-rights America, idealism, and sweeping 
oversimplifications. Here is part of it:<p>

MAJOR JACKSON: "One evening when I was at Philadelphia College of 
Textiles, a drunk white boy from upstate Pennsylvania called me a nigger. 
He said it at a party as if I was supposed to laugh along with him. I 
rebelled with my fist. That's what led me to leave that school."<p>

CECIL GRAY: "My great-great-grandfather was born in slavery. A white man 
raped an African woman; he was the result of that rape. The man made the 
mother put the child on a tree stump so the sun would turn him black. He 
was fourteen or fifteen when slavery ended."<p>

WADUD AHMAD: "Changed form."<p>

GRAY: "Thank you."<p>

AHMAD: "I'm one of the only ones among my peers in high school who's alive 
and doesn't have a record. I'm not any different from them, but I came 
from an Islamic household. My parents were very strict. Outside the house, 
I was with the guys on the corner.<p>

"I'll give you one example. I was a young guy, sixteen years old, and I 
used to surround myself with older boys who weren't so spiritual. One day 
they took me to a dope house. People were shooting up. A lady came in, 
about forty-five, an addict. I thought she must be somebody's mother. But 
she wanted heroin on credit. At one point a guy said, 'Anybody want to do 
anything to this bitch?' So she went around the room and did things. 
Everybody's filthy, everybody's talking. Then the guy calls her over and 
says, 'Lay down.' He's about twenty-five. He urinates on her. Everybody's 
laughing and slapping five. I'm sitting there and thinking, 'Wadud, you're 
sixteen, why don't you feel anything?'"<p>

GRAY: "My sister was classified as a genius, in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. 
By tenth grade she had read every book in the library. But for the last 
one and a half years in high school she was bored. Of course, at that time 
a black person couldn't attend a white school, which might have had 
materials that would have held her attention. She dropped out and got 
married. Now she's just on the planet. She's alcoholic. She just gets the 
stamps and the welfare. She sometimes gives herself away.<p>

"There's a handful of white men who sit around a table....They work out 
the art of oppression. That's what they do. That is their work. And the 
average white person hears this and says, 'I don't believe that. I'm not 
interested in conspiracy theories.'"<p>

AHMAD: "I have an obligation: How can I not try to help black folk? I have 
to do it. I HAVE to. I understand my position is limited, but I have to do 
something. I have to ask every day what I'm doing....I plan on being a 
physician and starting my own clinic."<p>

JACKSON: "I plan on teaching. I'd like to teach young African-American 
students."<p>

GRAY: "I'm an African man. That's who I am. That's who I'm going to 
be....For a number of years I have been talking about building a school. 
I'm going to do that. Pre-school through Ph.D., for Africans, who will be 
fluid-fluent in the so-called mainstream but also anchored in being 
African, and in our particular mission as African people."<p>




It would be unusual to hear such sentiments, or to find an avowed 
Afrocentrist, at Penn, which has a reputation for preparing a much more 
select group for much loftier futures. The prevailing view about Penn 
among blacks is that it has tightened up its admissions and financial-aid 
standards over the years, and has thus become a more demanding, even 
hostile, place. "My class was the last one run on Great Society 
principles," says Robert Arnold Wilson, a lawyer who graduated from Penn 
in 1975 and teaches political science part-time there. "It was almost as 
if they drove a bus to every black urban neighborhood in America and said, 
'Anybody who has a chance to get out, come on!' We had almost two hundred 
blacks in the freshman class. We weren't Main Line blacks--not the 
talented tenth." After graduation Wilson studied at Oxford for two years 
and then returned to Penn to attend law school. He went on: "The Bakke 
case met me when I came home. You could cut that tension with a knife. We 
had thirty-two blacks in my law-school class. We knew by the way white 
folks looked at us that we took one of their friends' places. They said, 
'These black folks don't deserve to be here.' We said, 'You owe us 
something.' They said, 'My grandfather came over from Russia; I don't owe 
you anything.'"<p>

Now Penn has slightly fewer black students, and they come from somewhat 
more affluent backgrounds: more private schools, more integrated 
neighborhoods. In 1985 a bitter racial controversy broke out. A white 
legal-studies lecturer at Wharton named Murray Dolfman asked some black 
students in his class to summarize the contents of the Thirteenth, 
Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution. When they 
couldn't, he told them they should know such things, because they were the 
descendants of slaves and the amendments were aimed at them. When word of 
the incident got around, it generated a fierce response among blacks who 
felt that it symbolized the disrespectful attitude toward them at Penn.<p>

Things have quieted down since then, but nobody considers Penn to be a 
race-relations paradise. Many black students at Penn see themselves as 
being in an essentially unfriendly white environment--and they believe 
that the path to success will lead them into more such environments. 
Nationalism is a kind of emotional safe harbor. "Many black students are 
coming to terms with who they are--exploring their roots," Elijah 
Anderson, a sociology professor at Penn, told me. "A good number of 
students have grown up in predominantly white suburbs. One of the luxuries 
of being a college student is that you have the time to contemplate the 
meaning of your life. Some students dabble in nationalism and then go to 
Wharton and live in predominantly white neighborhoods. Ethnicity becomes 
somewhat symbolic. Farrakhan has come here a couple of times, and students 
were very curious. Some clapped, but most of these students are not moving 
into the inner-city ghetto when they leave school."<p>

I spent an evening with a small group of Penn students who live in DuBois 
House, which is the only dormitory in the Ivy League designated for 
students in African-American studies. Shortly after DuBois House was 
established, twenty years ago, in response to black students' demands, the 
NAACP threatened to sue on the grounds that it was separatist housing. The 
association withdrew its threat when it learned that the top two floors of 
the building were integrated graduate-student housing; DuBois House takes 
up the bottom two floors. I asked the students--most of whom said they had 
come to Penn because of its outstanding undergraduate business 
program--what they planned to do after graduation. Here is some of what 
they said:<p>

MARTIN DIAS: "I'd like to take what Penn has given me and use it in my own 
community. A lot of my friends want to open businesses, but I have to get 
over my risk aversion."<p>

ROBERT SMITH: "You and the rest of the race!"<p>

DIAS: "There are few black businesses on Fifty-second Street [a commercial 
thoroughfare of West Philadelphia]. There are few black faces there 
besides Muslims selling incense....I had a summer job at State Street Bank 
in Boston. They were really nice, but I don't want to work there. Being 
black is going to hinder me. We don't socialize together. I don't play 
golf. I don't ski. I don't like white parties with no rap music. So I 
won't be promoted."<p>

SMITH: "That doesn't happen with Asians. They don't socialize, and they do 
well."<p>

DIAS: "No! I saw an Asian woman there who worked twelve years without a 
promotion."<p>

SMITH: "My career goal is to redevelop black America based on real-estate 
acquisition. You can get a job with a corporation, but where are you put? 
On a track. I'm not interested in being assistant vice-president for 
liaison human-resource personnel....Look at the black community--your 
grandmother's community. It's deteriorating. You move in, with your 
degree, you're upgrading the neighborhood. And you get kids who come out 
with some identity, and some friends. Doesn't it make more sense than get 
ripped off, screwed up, and have your kids turn out wrong, in the name of 
integration?"<p>

DIAS: "I bet FIFTY of the black students at Penn will live in black 
neighborhoods."<p>

SMITH: "Let's talk the truth: one hundred percent will go to neighborhoods 
in their tax bracket. Ten percent will work for black companies."<p>

Everyone nodded in agreement. Then we got onto the subject of how it feels 
to be black at Penn.<p>

TREASREA CORNELIUS: "There's always an air about you. I have a couple of 
white friends. But we don't start on the same level. You're coming from 
different planets. You can't tell somebody what it's like to be black."<p>

DIAS: "I'm aware that if I say something in class, I represent black 
people."<p>

CORNELIUS: "Thank you."<p>

DIAS: "I have to be extra articulate. Then they say, 'You're so 
articulate, Martin!' There's a parenthesis at the end of every sentence: 
'for a black person.'"<p>




From a distance it would be easy to worry that the black middle . class 
wants to opt out of national life and create a psychologically separate 
black principality. Afrocentrism, rap music, and other strains of 
contemporary nationalism provide plenty of evidence to support this view. 
But up close it's almost impossible to maintain. Outside the tiny world of 
academic black studies, the number of unintegrated black middle-class 
berths in American society is shrinking, not growing. It's as if an 
irresistible tidal force were pulling middle-class blacks toward white 
America.<p>

Nationalism and assimilation are therefore now linked, not opposing, 
forces. Very few nationalists ask their followers not to join the 
mainstream economy; I asked Molefi Asante if you could be an Afrocentrist 
and work for IBM and live in the suburbs, and he unhesitatingly said yes. 
And very few assimilationists see no need to shore up black identity. 
Henry Louis Gates Jr., the chairman of the Afro-American Studies 
Department at Harvard and a critic of what he calls "black nationalist 
voodoo texts" (students jokingly call his tutorial for usually 
nationalism-besotted sophomores "Deprogramming 101"), nevertheless told 
me, "What I want to see happen is black people with a strong social 
conscience learning to function through and in the center of American 
society. When you get to Wall Street and you bump into the glass ceiling, 
there's a kind of armament it provides."<p>

But if rejection of American society didn't seem to run very deep among 
the students I talked to, cynicism about it did. They knew that you get 
ahead by following a set of rules, but the rules seemed arbitrary to them. 
I didn't sense much feeling that the system--the whole superstructure of 
tests and grades and admissions offices and evaluations and promotions and 
raises--has been constructed in accordance with high moral principles. 
Maybe the day will come when the country seems to blacks to be as 
outstandingly fair as it does to many whites. Until then even blacks who 
have become financially successful will be much likelier than whites to 
regard the familiar American pattern of social, political, and economic 
results with a measure of skepticism.<p>

	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1993 by Nicholas Lemann.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
The Atlantic Monthly; January 1993 ; Philadelphia: Black Nationalism on 
Campus; Volume 271, No. 1;
page(s) 31-4; 43-7.
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-2</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B045-328</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/thomas.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117201658 text/html 54579
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:16:37 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 12 Jun 1996 20:19:20 GMT
Content-length: 54373
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head>

<title>A Question of Fairness</title>

</head><body bgcolor=ffffff>

<p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>February 1987</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<center>

<h1>



A Question of Fairness



</h1>

</center>

<p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by Juan Williams</font></center>



<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



<blockquote><i><font size=4>Clarence Thomas, a black, is

Ronald Reagan's chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. He

walks a lonely road, not really agreeing with conservatives or liberals.</i></font><p>



<p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>A</font>s a child in the 1950s, Clarence Thomas wore the ragged hand-me-downs familiar

to many a poor black child in the segregated South. In the early 1960s, as the

first black ever enrolled at St. John Vianney Minor Seminary, in Savannah,

Georgia, he wore plain, neatly pressed shirts and slacks, along with an

expression that bespoke a painful shyness. The goatee, the black leather

jacket, and the solidarity with Malcolm X came at Holy Cross College, in

Massachusetts, during the late 1960s. Yale Law School and corporate legal work

in the 1970s finally brought Thomas a measure of real status and affluence. Now

thirty-eight, and the chairman of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity

Commission (EEOC), Clarence Thomas dresses in dark, elegant, conservative

business suits. He earns $71,000 a year and, when he is not being chauffered in

a government car, drives a Camaro IROC-Z. The desk in his Washington office is

an impressive structure of polished oak. Behind his leather chair stand two

flags, one the Stars and Stripes and the other bearing the legend "Don't Tread

on Me." It is an apt motto for the head of an agency charged with ensuring that

discrimination based on race, sex, age, religion, or national origin does not

occur in the workplace, and that should it occur, appropriate steps are taken

to seek redress.<p>



The leaders of many civil-rights and women's groups wonder how seriously

Clarence Thomas takes that motto. Indeed, some of them loathe Thomas. He is,

after all, a member of the Reagan Administration -- its second-highest-ranking

black. He is the top federal official charged with curbing discrimination in

the private sector. Every American company with more than fifteen employees

must adhere to guidelines set by the EEOC on how to train, hire, and promote

women, minorities, the elderly, and the handicapped. Thomas not only shapes and

enforces those guidelines but helps to define Reagan Administration policies

with respect to black America generally, policies that most blacks and white

liberals abhor. Hodding Carter III, an official in the Carter Administration

and now a syndicated columnist, recently characterized Thomas's performance as

similar to that of the "'chicken-eating preachers' who gladly parroted the

segregationists' line in exchange for a few crumbs from the white man's

table."<p>





And yet, as I discovered in a series of interviews spanning Thomas's nearly

five years in office, Thomas does take seriously the stated responsibilities of

his position. He simply wishes to change what the word discrimination means in

the EEOC's official lexicon from what it has meant for more than two decades.

And even though he is a committed supporter of President Reagan, Thomas brings

to his job a view of race relations in the United States that Ronald Reagan

probably does not suspect he harbors. The President's director of the EEOC is

something of a black nationalist, as well as a sad, lonely, troubled, and

deeply pessimistic public servant.<p>





Ultimately, he said to me one day, turning away as if to avoid revealing some

private hurt, it doesn't matter that black and white Americans are unlikely

ever to see each other as anything but blacks and whites. It doesn't matter

that a black man in America is only rarely judged on the basis of his character

rather than that of his color. It does not really matter that the dream of

racial integration -- of uplift through education, of gradual absorption into

the social and economic mainstream -- has not worked for most black Americans,

even for those who, like him, have leaped the boundaries of the ghetto and, it

would seem, "made it" in a white world. For when you get right down to it,

Thomas said, successful blacks don't particularly like the kind of integration

that whites have crafted for them in the past thirty years. Increasing numbers

of middle-class blacks see integration simply as window dressing; blacks may be

present and visible, but only a few have any real power.<p>



On this point Clarence Thomas accurately captures the frustration of many

middle-class blacks: people who are educated, employed in challenging and

high-paying positions, and yet somehow still angry. The anger is usually

inexplicable to their white friends and colleagues. The reason for it, quite

simply, is race. "There is nothing you can do to get past black skin," Thomas

said. "I don't care how educated you are, how good you are at what you do --

you'll never have the same contacts or opportunities, you'll never be seen as

equal to whites." In interviews and in polls middle-class blacks repeatedly

come off as resentful about their lives in white America: angry at the pleasure

some whites take in the progress made by blacks (even as black families

continue to take in about fifty-nine cents for every dollar taken in by white

families); angry too, that blacks remain a negligible presence in the corporate

world (where such blacks as there are feel shut out of the informal networks

among whites that facilitate advancement).<p>



But while Thomas may share the resentment of other middle-class blacks, he does

not share much else. He has his own ideas about how to deal with racism and

discrimination, and those ideas have made him less a radical of the far right

than ideologically sui generis. He does not, deep down, share the Reagan

Administration's professed belief in a "colorblind" society, because he

believes that such a society probably cannot be achieved. It is unlikely that

whites will ever fully accept blacks as equals, in his opinion, and so blacks

should prepare to do for themselves: by making black schools into rigorous

training grounds, by investing in black businesses, by working for black

corporations, and by living in black neighborhoods. Forget the traditional

pressure tactics -- demonstrations, boycotts, lobbying by civil-rights groups

-- that are meant to gain a share of power, wealth, and influence in white

American institutions.<p>





Thomas's ideas have come to Washington at a time when the United States is

entering what might be called the post-Romantic period of the American

civil-rights movement. Ronald Reagan has won two terms in the White House with

little support from black voters. He owes nothing to the black electorate. He

rarely speaks to black groups and never meets with civil-rights leaders. Yet

Thomas's racial agenda suits the Reagan Administration's agenda just fine.

Thomas is an opponent of busing, arguing that black children gain nothing from

simply sitting next to whites and can do quite well in their own schools. He is

a critic of the 1954 Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education,

which declared the segregation of public schools to be illegal. Thomas thinks

that the Court's ruling was based on the assumption that any all-black school

had to be inferior to an integrated school (Thomas, a single parent, sends his

son to an integrated private school in the Washington suburbs but insists that

whether the school is integrated, all-black, or virtually all-white is

irrelevant, and that he chose the school he did only in the interest of

obtaining the best education for his son.) Thomas is also against affirmative

action to get more blacks into U.S. corporations, contending that affirmative

action -- meaning goals and timetables for employers who have hired few, or

have never hired, blacks -- not only is window dressing but also has failed to

help the mass of poor black people get into the mainstream economy. Affirmative

action, he believes, has primarily meant more money for a few qualified blacks,

usually the scions of the already well-to-do. Thomas fights angrily against

requirements that employers alter tests to allow as many blacks as whites to

pass. These prescriptions strike him as "assuming that blacks lack

intelligence" and that they "can't perform as well as whites." Lowering

standards on tests, he says, may help a few blacks get a few good jobs, but it

also puts the federal imprimatur on the idea that educated blacks can't

compete, and therefore lends credence to it -- a loss that isn't worth the

gain. Thomas wants to strengthen black colleges and universities rather than

press white schools to admit more blacks. White liberals, who want to end

"dual" school systems in the South, should "leave black people alone."<p>



Thomas stands in the tradition of Booker T. Washington, who argued against

integrationists like W.E.B. DuBois earlier in this century. Washington

contended that freed black slaves should remain in their own southern

communities, work hard, and develop their own farms and businesses. Thomas

favors strengthening black businesses in which employers can amass capital and

employees can make it on their own without the stigma of being labeled "one of

the blacks" in the firm. Thomas believes that the most significant progress

made by the American civil-rights movement is due to the individual efforts of

black men and women, standing firm in the face of overt racism and demanding

their rights as Americans. Thomas puts little stock in rulings by the Supreme

Court, decisions made in the White House, or even the good will of whites who

support integration. Like Booker T. Washington, Thomas puts his faith in the

ability of black people to use their minds and their muscles to do for

themselves. He quotes from memory these words of Malcolm X: "The American black

man should be focusing his every effort toward building his own businesses and

decent homes for himself. As other ethnic groups have done, let the black

people, wherever possible, however possible, patronize their own kind, hire

their own kind, and start in those ways to build up the black race's ability to

do for itself. That's the only way the American black man is ever going to get

respect. "<p>





Clarence Thomas, in sum, is a man who does not see integration as the panacea

for the problems of black America. The familiar integrationist agitation of

black civil-rights leaders leaves him cold. He agrees with Reagan's

characterization of the civil-rights leaders as old men fomenting discontent to

justify their own "rather good positions." "The issue is economics -- not who

likes you," Thomas has told me. "And when you have the economics, people do

have a way of changing their attitudes toward you. I don't see how the

civil-rights people today can claim Malcolm X as one of their own. Where does

he say black people should go begging the Labor Department for jobs? He was

hell on integrationists. Where does he say you should sacrifice your

institutions to be next to white people?"<p>



Above all -- and perhaps this is the main reason why he is regarded with such

disdain by so many blacks, and so many Hispanics and women as well -- Thomas

refuses to see civil rights as a matter of corporate struggle and group equity.

Are blacks, Hispanics, and women, as groups, victims of discrimination on the

job, as evidenced by group statistics on hiring, promotion, and pay? Thomas is

not very much interested in this question. What about an individual who claims

discrimination? Here, and here alone, a black or a woman might find Thomas to

be a friend in court.<p>

<br>

<br>



<font size=5>C</font>LARENCE Thomas was sent to live with his grandfather, Myers Anderson, when he

was seven years old. His father had long before left for Philadelphia; his

mother had remarried, and her new husband didn't want children from the

previous marriage around. Thomas, his mother, and brother had been living in a

room off an alley in Savannah for about a year. Before that the children had

lived in Pinpoint, a rundown town outside Savannah, with an aunt. Thomas

remembers eating cornflakes several times a day, wandering the streets, playing

hooky. Displayed prominently in Clarence Thomas's office is a photograph of

Myers Anderson: a muscular older man in a white undershirt, standing ready to

go to work. "When the civil-rights people indict me," Thomas said soon after

his grandfather's death, in 1983, "the man they are indicting is that man. Let

them call him from the grave and indict him. "<p>



When Thomas and his brother went to live with their grandfather in Savannah, in

1956, it was the first time that they had ever lived in a house with a

bathroom. It was their first experience of three square meals a day. Their

grandfather had built his own house, and, although he could barely read or

write, he was a strong advocate of education. Clarence could no longer miss

school. Anderson, a devout Catholic, paid $30 a year for the Thomas boys to

attend an all-black Catholic school, run by white nuns. Every afternoon at

three it was straight home to change clothes and help Myers deliver ice and

oil. In the evenings, after washing dishes, Thomas went, he remembers, to the

library for blacks, which had been built by the Carnegies. (Blacks were barred

from the Savannah Public Library.) "I used to run to the library to flip

through the pages and dream. I just remember The New Yorker. You know, what did

I know about New York? But I said, One day, I'm going to be able to read this,

be sophisticated enough to deal with these kinds of things." Although Myers

Anderson was nearly illiterate, Clarence came to appreciate that his

grandfather had not let segregation or a lack of schooling stand in the way of

his living a decent life. His grandfather, a strong Democrat, had been involved

in local efforts to get voting rights for blacks, and he voted religiously.<p>





Clarence learned other lessons from his grandfather after a visit up North to

see some relatives, who were now shelved in housing projects and living on

welfare. "He'd say, 'Damn welfare, that relief! -- Man ain't got no business on

relief as long as he can work.'"<p>



Southern society, both black and white, had another view of Clarence and his

grandfather. Black Savannah society, Clarence Thomas recalls bitterly, knew him

as ABC -- America's Blackest Child ("and you have to remember that for someone

to call you black in the sixties, that meant serious business"). He was

ridiculed not only for his extremely dark complexion but also for his hair --

they called it "nigger naps" -- and thick lips. Thomas's grandfather endured

worse. "I remember this lady came up to the house -- Miss Morgan," Thomas told

me one day. "Her husband was noted for being fairly mean. She drove up in one

of those great big Buick Electras. Granddaddy was out in the field. You see a

car driving up and you always wonder who it is, because we had a dirt road

leading up to the house -- you see all the dust and everything. She said,

'Myers, boy.' And you could see him seethe. He looked around and saw his little

kids there. You could see him seethe. People say what kind of manhood does it

take to yell back and get mad. But what must it have taken for him not only to

take the insult but the stares from his kids seeing him being called a boy. The

most significant things [in civil rights] were things that I saw day-to-day,

not the protests downtown or in Washington."<p>



Integration touched Thomas's life for the first time in tenth grade. His

grandfather decided that he wanted Clarence, a good student, to attend an

all-white Catholic boarding school, St. John Vianney Minor Seminary. Thomas was

admitted without incident. He got excellent grades and was a star quarterback

on the school's football team. His grandfather bragged that his grandson would

become a priest. To Anderson, Clarence became a racial symbol. On vacations his

grandfather would take him to the local NAACP meetings and have him read his

grades aloud: "He thought I was lining proof that black people were as good as

white people."<p>



In his own mind, however, Thomas was in a state of crisis. He had never been

around many whites. Now he was living with them. He saw how many more

possessions they had, how the other boys commanded respect as seminarians in a

town where he was at best ignored. (Thomas remembers a quote from Richard

Wright's Blank Metropolis: "But the American negro, child of the culture that

crushes him, wants to be free in a way that white men are free. For him to wish

otherwise would be unnatural, unthinkable.") Most devastating of all were the

racist jokes and slights that Thomas's fellow seminarians made at his expense.

Myers Anderson had held the church up as a moral and ethical model. But, Thomas

told me, "After lights out someone would yell, 'Smile, Clarence, so we can see

you.' The statement wasn't the bad part, it was no one saying 'Shut up.' " On

Thursday afternoons, when students went to town with their friends, Thomas was

left alone. Movie theaters were still segregated; to eat at a restaurant with

classmates would have caused a stir.<p>



Thomas remembers a "self-hate" stage, where "you hate yourself for being part

of a group that's gotten the hell kicked out of them." He tried to fit in. He

avoided every form of stereotypical behavior attributed to blacks. He took

pains to speak perfectly -- not in slang, not loudly. He stressed academic

achievement. But acceptance did not come. When he left the seminary, he held a

conviction he has carried since: there is nothing a black man can do to be

accepted by whites. Consequently, despite his anger at segregation, he does not

automatically grant that integration is good for black people. Thomas wants to

know in every instance what integration means for blacks. If it means losing

the alternative of going to their own schools, running their own businesses,

then he doesn't like it. He has too many scars from episodes in which, in the

name of integration, he was the only black. Today he says, "The whole push to

assimilate simply does not make sense to me."<p>



Thomas's skepticism about integration was heightened in 1967, when he enrolled

at Immaculate Conception Seminary in Missouri to continue his training for the

priesthood. He stayed only eight months. Martin Luther King, Jr., was shot in

April of 1968. As Thomas entered a room that day, he heard one white seminarian

say, "Good, I hope the son of a bitch dies." That was the end of the 

seminary. Alienated from whites, alienated from the kids in his neighborhood as a result

of having been away at school, and alienated, finally, from his grandfather

over leaving the seminary, Thomas worked for a while and then went north to

Holy Cross. He paid his tuition with a combination of scholarships, work-study

(washing dishes in the kitchen), and loans. His militancy became pronounced. He

led the free-breakfast program for black schoolchildren in Worcester,

Massachusetts, dallied with the Black Panthers, and urged a black walkout at

the college over the issue of investment in South Africa. All the while he kept

up a near perfect academic record. Eventually Thomas decided he wanted to be a

lawyer, and he was accepted by Yale Law School.<p>



At Yale, Thomas avoided his professors and sat in the back of the classroom. He

did not want to be identified as a black student -- one who perhaps had been

admitted and must be coddled precisely because he was black. He shunned courses

touching on civil rights, instead studying tax law, legal accounting, antitrust

law, and property law. He remembers feeling the "monkey was on my back" because

classmates believed that he and the dozen or so other blacks in his class were

there to satisfy the school's social-policy goals, not because of their

academic qualifications. Nevertheless, Thomas thrived academically. Sitting in

the back of the classroom and working anonymously in the library, he earned

good grades. He was less impressed by the hard-edged minutiae of the law than

by the notion that he was competing successfully with the best white minds.

Yale gave him renewed confidence even as he was, in effect, hiding his face to

avoid calling attention to his race. Confusion and contradiction reigned in his

life. He felt alienated from a system that was trying to open itself to him,

and became more of a loner than he had been before.<p>



Even as Thomas turned inward, he was being urged into a position of leadership

by other black students, who were pressing Yale to accept more blacks. Thomas

did not take the assignment. He saw that many of the blacks who started Yale

Law School did not graduate. Most of those who did graduate were the sons and

daughters of black lawyers, doctors, and teachers. Thomas could not justify

leading protests to get more Yale law degrees for middle class blacks. "If

quotas help you, fine," he has told me. "If they make your life wonderful,

fine. If they get you a BMW or Mercedes, say that is why you want quotas. Man,

quotas are for the black middle class. But look at what's happening to the

masses. Those are my people. They are just where they were before any of these

policies."<p>



At the end of law school Thomas felt no debt to whites at Yale for allowing a

black man from a poor family to go to school there. The suggestion that his

education is proof of the good done by affirmative-action policies, executed in

good faith to end the harmful cycle of broken families, bad schools, and

unemployment, angers him. "I don't think black people are indebted to anybody

for anything. Nobody has done us any favors in this country, buddy. This thing

about how they let me into Yale -- that kind of stuff offends me. All they did

was stop stopping us."<p>





As Yale ended and job interviews began, Thomas found himself singled out again.

Recruiters from top firms kept mentioning that their firms would allow him to

do pro bono work. He bolted from some interviews in anger. White students told

him pro bono work was not mentioned in their interviews. "I went to law school

to be a lawyer, not a social worker If I want to be a social worker. I'll do it

on my own time." Thomas ultimately took a job with another Yale alumnus, John

Danforth, now a U.S. senator but at the time Missouri's Republican attorney

general. Danforth didn't mention pro bono work. He promised Thomas no special

treatment because of his race. Thomas became counsel to the state department of

revenue and the tax commission. He avoided work on any racial issues, insisting

that he would be judged a second-rate intellect by people who would assume that

he was involved only because he was black. "Danforth was a good guy," Thomas

said once. "He ignored the hell out of me."<p>



Thomas worked for the State of Missouri for almost three years, and then went

to work for Monsanto, the chemical company. In 1979 he rejoined Danforth, in

the Senator's Washington office, again working on non-civil-rights issues, such

as energy and the environment. And he became a Republican.<p>

<br>

<br>



<font size=5>A</font> month before Ronald Reagan's first inauguration Clarence Thomas paid his way

to San Francisco for a conference of black conservatives. Reagan's overwhelming

election victory, won with almost no black support, had put the spotlight on

the few blacks who counted themselves in his camp. Except for Thomas Sowell,

the economist, most of the black conservatives were, like Thomas, relatively

unknown. They took gleefully to the sudden attention from the press. I was then

an editorial writer for The Washington Post, and I flew to San Francisco to

hear the policy arguments being made by Ronald Reagan's black admirers.<p>





Thomas was the most interesting of a very self-important crowd, because he was

so brutally candid. In discussing welfare policy he explained that his

opposition to public assistance was an outgrowth of his sister's experience on

welfare in Georgia. "She gets mad when the mailman is late with her welfare

check," he said. "That is how dependent she is. What's worse is that now her

kids feel entitled to the check too. They have no motivation for doing better

or getting out of that situation. His frankness in reflecting on his own

position as a black conservative is, in retrospect, touched by irony. "If I

ever went to work for the EEOC or did anything directly connected with blacks,

my career would be irreparably ruined. The monkey would be on my back to prove

that I didn't have the job because I'm black. People meeting me for the first

time would automatically dismiss my thinking as second-rate."<p>



I wrote a column for the Post about Thomas that drew the attention of the

Reagan transition team. Various jobs in the Administration were discussed.

Thomas, however, was reluctant to move to the executive branch. The column had

attracted as much criticism from the left as interest from the right. Thomas

was uncomfortable. Finally, though, in May of 1981, despite his misgivings, he

joined the Administration as the Department of Education's assistant secretary

for civil rights. He kept a low profile and generally avoided the press. But he

stirred controversy among civil-rights activists from the start. For example,

he set out rather quickly to overturn the government's policy of pressing

southern states to unify their separate white and black college systems,

arguing that an end to the so-called dual system would mean an end to the

historically black colleges that had educated a majority of the nation's black

professionals. Civil-rights groups saw him as playing into the hands of

southern white separatists. Thomas did not have time to ride out the storm.

Eight months after he began his job at the Department of Education, the

President nominated him to head the EEOC. He became the only black with any

real power in the Reagan Administration on matters involving civil rights.

(Clarence Pendleton, the chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, is

empowered only to conduct studies and make recommendations.)<p>



Soon after Thomas's nomination he and I began meeting regularly for informal

conversations, most of them on the record. I was by then a White House

correspondent, and Thomas thought that the conversations would be advantageous

to him. Eventually we began to talk easily and at length. He was outspoken and

frank in discussing his shifting thoughts on civil rights, his frustrations,

and his worries about his status within the Administration.<p>





The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was created by the Civil Rights Act

of 1964, as a means to enforce statutory prohibitions against job

discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, religion, or national origin.

The commission has five members, who review every case recommended by the

EEOC's general counsel as possible material for a lawsuit. All the members are

political appointees. As the chairman, Thomas oversees the agency's lawyers and

regulators -- a significant source of influence. The EEOC's power is limited to

investigating a charge and seeking a settlement with the employee. The agency

can subpoena evidence, take testimony, and file suit on behalf of a defendant

or a class of defendants. The EEOC cannot itself fine or penalize the employer

any other way. The agency also has a congressional mandate to deal with

employer discrimination on the basis of age, as well as to investigate

violations of the Equal Pay Act (which requires that equal pay be given to

persons doing the same job).<p>



Should General Motors be prodded to train more women welders? Should companies,

reasoning that older workers have pension income to make up for a loss of

salary, be allowed to lay off the elderly first? Are secretaries being paid

less than janitors because secretarial work is a traditionally female

occupation? Should a business be permitted to promote blacks who don't pass

qualifying tests, on the grounds that five times as many blacks as whites fail

such tests? These are the kinds of questions that come before the EEOC. For

more than two decades an established part of American corporate life has

consisted in trying to keep the EEOC at bay. Last year the commission processed

66,000 complaints. Whether the EEOC files a lawsuit in any particular case

depends largely on Clarence Thomas's conception of fairness.<p>





Thomas told me a story from his boyhood to illustrate what fairness means to

him. He was on the back porch, playing blackjack for pennies with some other

boys. As the game went on, one boy kept winning. Thomas finally saw how: the

cards were marked. The game was stopped. There were angry words. Cards were

thrown. From all sides fast fists snatched back lost money. There could be no

equitable redistribution of the pot. The strongest, fastest hands, including

those of the boy who had been cheating, got most of the pile of pennies. Some

of the boys didn't get their money back. The cheater was threatened. The boys

who snatched pennies that they had not lost were also threatened. But no one

really wanted to fight -- they wanted to keep playing cards. So a different

deck was brought out and shuffled, and the game resumed with a simple promise

of no more cheating.<p>





That story, Thomas said, is a lot like the story of race relations in America.

Whites had an unfair advantage. But in 1964, with the passage of the Civil

Rights Act, the government stopped the cheating. The question now is, Should

the government return the ill-gotten gains to the losers -- the blacks, the

Hispanics, and the women who were cheated by racism and sexism? Does fairness

mean reaching back into the nation's past to undo the damage? Is the son

entitled to recompense if the mother was a brilliant businesswoman who could

not find a bank that would lend her money? How about the grandson of a black

doctor who never earned as much as white practitioners but lived the life of

the elite among blacks? Should American businesses have to compensate for the

legacy of slavery -- the poor, undereducated blacks living in dreary,

stultifying ghettos that perpetuate perverse values? How would society,

especially the society of government and business, make amends, even if making

amends were its fervent goal?<p>



Thomas believes that government simply cannot make amends, and therefore should

not try. The best it can do is to deal a clean deck and let the game resume,

enforcing the rules as they have now come to be understood. "There is no

governmental solution," Thomas said. "It hasn't been used on any group. And I

will ask those who proffer a governmental solution to show me which group in

the history of this country was pulled up and put into the mainstream of the

economy with governmental programs. The Irish weren't. The Jews weren't. Use

what was used to get others into the economy. Show us the precedent for all

this experimentation on our race."<p>





He returned to the idea of the cheater on the porch: "I would be lying to you

if I said that I didn't want sometimes to be able to cheat in favor of those of

us who were cheated. But you have to ask yourself whether, in doing that, you

do violence to the safe harbor, and that is the Constitution, which says you

are to protect an individual's rights no matter what. Once you say that we can

violate somebody else's rights in order to make up for what happened to blacks

or other races or other groups in history, then are you setting a precedent for

having certain circumstances in which you can overlook another person's

rights?"<p>





Individuals who are proven victims of discrimination have Clarence Thomas's

EEOC on their side in the fight. But people who argue that they are victimized

in corporate life as part of historical, across-the-board discrimination

against a group find little sympathy at his agency. It could be, Thomas says,

that blacks and women are generally unprepared to do certain kinds of work by

their own choice. It could be that blacks choose not to study chemical

engineering and that women choose to have babies instead of going to medical

school.<p>





If an employer over the years denies jobs to hundreds of qualified women or

blacks because he does not want women or blacks working for him, Thomas is not

prepared to see a "pattern and practice" of discrimination. He sees hundreds of

local, individual acts of discrimination. Thomas would require every woman or

black whom that employer had discriminated against to come to the government

and prove his or her allegation. The burden is on the individual. The remedy is

back pay and a job. "Anyone asking the government to do more is barking up the

wrong tree," Thomas says.<p>



Thomas has made it EEOC policy to shy away from class-action suits. He doesn't

want to see blacks treated as numbers. So he favors aggressive attacks on

employers only when they are proved to have discriminated against particular

persons. "My view is that the most vulnerable unit in our society is the

individual. And blacks, in my opinion being one of the most vulnerable groups,

should fight like hell to preserve individual freedoms so people can't gang up

on us. Blacks are the least favored group in this society. Suppose we did band

together, group against group -- which group do you think would win? We're

breaking down everything, ten percent for the blacks, twenty-five percent for

the women, two percent for the aged, everything broken out according to groups.

Which group always winds up with the least? Which group always seems to get the

hell kicked out of it? Blacks, and maybe American Indians.<p>





"Playing the group game builds up racial conflict. That's what segregation was

all about. But now blacks are out here raising all this Cain for group rights,

and the ones who benefit the most, I think, would probably be white females,

because they are the best-prepared group."<p>





Clarence Thomas has resolved to play by the rules. Once again one sees the boy

on the porch, the respect for method and procedure. Thomas is consistent.

Because the courts in the past have mandated goals, timetables, and quotas, and

because these are therefore the law of the land, Thomas's EEOC continues to

enforce (though it may occasionally challenge) such decisions. This stance has

sometimes left Thomas isolated within the Reagan Administration. But when it

comes to new business before the commission, there is little in Clarence

Thomas's record with which a right-wing Administration could find fault.<p>





In "fiscal year" 1980 (October 1, 1979, to September 30, 1980) the EEOC was

settling 32.1 percent of the cases that it closed, whereas the rate was 13.6

percent in the first half of 1986. The proportion of cases in which the EEOC

finding was "no cause" (for a lawsuit) increased from 28.5 percent to 56.6

percent over the same period. A total of 22.3 percent fewer cases were filed in

court in 1985 than in 1981. The decline in the number of cases pleased Thomas.

He had turned the agency's attention away from cases based on statistical

evidence of discrimination. Thomas was sensitive to reports that white managers

often feel they cannot find enough qualified minority candidates. Perhaps an

employer in the Southwest fires more Hispanics and women simply because he made

an effort to hire them in the first place; the women and Hispanics who make the

most of the open door will have a job. Those who can't do the job will be

fired. To sue an employer because he keeps the door open to people who may be

less educated and have little work experience would be to discourage him from

giving those people a chance.<p>

<br>

<br>



<font size=5>T</font>HOMAS's tenure at the EEOC has always been rocky, but it has been rocky for

different reasons at different times. His first task was simply getting a hold

on an agency with 3,100 employees and forty-eight local offices. By all

accounts the agency Thomas inherited was administratively disheveled, with a

long backlog of discrimination cases. Thomas seems to have been happy with

unpublicized bureaucratic chores, happy to be left to himself. On his way into

work every day he would have his driver stop at a Catholic church, where he

would spend a few minutes alone in prayer. He does not attend church on

Sundays. ("God is all right," he says. "It's the people I don't like.") Thomas

rarely spoke with the press. He worked privately, almost anonymously, letting

the Justice Department and the White House make political pronouncements on

civil-rights policy. In the Administration, Thomas was often referred to as

"the other Clarence," distinguishing him from the more visible Clarence

Pendleton, at the Civil Rights Commission. As one of the very few prominent

blacks in the Reagan Administration, he was criticized internally for his

initial lack of a public role.<p>



Once, during lunch at the White House mess, William Bradford Reynolds, the

assistant attorney general for civil rights, was loudly urging him to be more

aggressive. Thomas snapped back, "Don't tell me what to do, Brad. All I 

<i>have</i> to

do is die and stay black."<p>



If Thomas hoped to sit out the war of words between the Reagan Administration

and the nation's leading civil-rights groups, he was only partially successful.

Criticized by black leaders as an Uncle Tom, Thomas from time to time struck

back. He publicly castigated civil-rights leaders who "bitch, bitch, bitch,

moan and moan and whine" about the Reagan Administration. He characterized

protests against apartheid in South Africa and against the Administration's

policy of "constructive engagement" as less important than efforts at home to

improve education for blacks and end poverty and drug abuse among them.<p>



Meanwhile, Thomas found himself in occasional disagreements with other members

of the Administration. Thomas freely blamed the Justice Department for setting

a "negative agenda" on civil rights during the President's first term. He

conceded to me that the Administration "blew it" by supporting tax-exempt

status for a segregationist school, Bob Jones University. He stated frankly

that he was working with racists, though he claimed that this hardly mattered,

since, he said, there are some racists in every Administration. ("Yes, there

are a lot of racists in the Administration. So what? There may be more here

now, they may be more out front. I don't care. I prefer dealing with an

out-and-out racist anyway to one who is racist behind your back.") He opposed

Attorney General William French Smith when Smith refused to comply with a

twelve-year-old federal law requiring federal agencies to submit annual

statistical analyses of the number of minority-group members working in the

executive branch. And, with mixed success, he has set himself against Justice

Department attempts to overturn certain existing local quota plans for hiring

and promotion. At one point in 1984 there was talk within the Administration of

forcing Thomas's resignation, or at the very least of nominating a replacement

when Thomas's term expired in 1985.<p>



Though it was at first only dimly perceived, however, Thomas was transforming

the nature of the EEOC -- moving it firmly toward the Reagan right. The

fundamental change was in the type of lawsuit that the commission was likely to

bring. In the past the EEOC had brought a number of celebrated class-action

cases against such major companies as AT&amp;T and General Electric. The agency

had alleged historical and widespread discrimination and sought changes in

hiring practices, along with back pay for the victims. Those cases ended with

multimillion-dollar settlements, and goals and timetables to govern future

hiring. Now the EEOC focused on simply enforcing the law in cases brought by

individuals who sought to prove specific acts of discrimination. The shift in

emphasis fit Administration policy. Fewer class-action suits inevitably meant

far less use of goals, timetables, and quotas to remedy findings of

discrimination. It also meant fewer attempts to stop employers from giving

tests, setting standards, or recruiting in a manner that caused

disproportionately low numbers of blacks, women, and other minorities to get

jobs.<p>



Thomas held to his version of fairness: individual victims of discrimination

should be helped by the government, but classes of people who theoretically

were victimized by the nation's history of racism or sexism should not be

helped. Indeed, Thomas viewed with deep misgivings any finding of

discrimination based on broad statistics -- once the most effective weapon

wielded by the EEOC. The commission had for many years used statistics to put

employers on the defensive for not hiring minorities or women in proportion to

their numbers in the pool of qualified applicants. Statistics shifted the

burden of proof from the individual, who was charging discrimination, to the

company, which had to prove that it was not discriminating. Statistics had been

employed vigorously by the EEOC ever since a favorable 1971 Supreme Court

ruling in Griggs v. Duke Power Co.<p>



Soon Thomas began to look at the use of statistics in the EEOC's own Uniform

Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedure, which has been used by the courts

as an authoritative interpretation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In

September of 1984 Thomas led the five EEOC commissioners in a vote to review

the guidelines, because, in his view, they had become too "rigid." The

decision, in favor of review, shook the civil-rights community, which regarded

the guidelines as a landmark in equal-opportunity law. It also had

reverberations in the corporate world. Lawyers had become accustomed to the

Uniform Guidelines as the one and only set of rules for playing the

affirmative-action game -- for avoiding race- and sex-bias lawsuits brought by

the government. The guidelines require that any prerequisite for employment --

a test, an interview, a physical standard, or a performance evaluation --

result in a selection rate for any race, sex, or ethnic group within 20 percent

of the selection rate for the group with the highest rate. If a hundred whites

apply for a job and sixty are selected, that is a 60 percent hiring rate for

qualified white applicants. An employer with forty qualified black applicants

would have to hire twenty -- a 50 percent hiring rate -- to come up with a

hiring rate for blacks that is within 20 percent of the hiring rate for

whites.<p>



In justifying the review of the guidelines Thomas wrote that they were founded

on the premise "that but for unlawful discrimination by an employer, there

would not be variations in the rates of hire or promotion of people of

different races, sexes, or national origins . . . [The guidelines] also seem to

assume some inherent inferiority of blacks, Hispanics, other minorities, and

women, by suggesting that they should not be held to the same standards as

other people, even if those standards are race and sex neutral." Last year the

EEOC completed an internal review of the guidelines, but it has not yet acted

on this report.<p>





Thomas was roundly criticized by civil-rights groups for subjecting the

guidelines to scrutiny. He cited the all-black basketball team at Georgetown

University, a school with an overwhelmingly white student body, as an example

of how statistics could mislead. Would anyone, he asked at a congressional

hearing, charge that Georgetown was discriminating against white basketball

players?<p>





In newspaper interviews Thomas spoke freely of his disdain for the statistical

basis of an ongoing EEOC suit, begun before Thomas joined the commission,

against Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. The class-action suit claimed that Sears

discriminated against women because it hired a far higher proportion of men

than women for sales jobs, even though more women applied for the jobs. Sears,

the EEOC claimed, also promoted fewer woman than men to lucrative commissioned

sales jobs. The government's suit did not have a single named plaintiff; it

relied solely on statistics. Thomas told The New York Times that the statistics

didn't prove Sears guilty of discrimination. The disparity in hiring figures

between men and women could, he said, be due to cultural differences between

men and women, educational levels, commuting patterns, and other "previous

events." Lawyers for Sears actually tried to have Thomas testify in their

behalf, hoping he would damage his agency's case. However, the judge refused

the motion to take his deposition, ruling that what Thomas believed, even as

the head of the EEOC, was irrelevant. In February of 1985, to Thomas's

satisfaction, the EEOC lost the case. But Thomas has agreed to have his agency

file an appeal on the basis of what his lawyers have told him are mistakes made

by the trial judge. Thomas told me that he decided to go along with the appeal

because if he didn't, "the liberals would be all over me." He does not want it

said that he didn't give the case every chance to succeed.<p>



In June of 1985 Thomas removed another potential source of controversy between

employers and the government by leading the commissioners to reject the

validity of the notion of "comparable worth": the idea that people who are

doing different jobs should nevertheless be paid equally if their jobs require

comparable effort, responsibility, skill, and training. Traditionally female

occupations, such as teaching, could be made to pay the same wage as

traditionally male occupations, such as construction. Women's groups have

contended that jobs that usually go to men pay more because of the

old-fashioned idea that a man is supporting a family while a woman is merely

working for pin money, or supplemental income. Thomas countered that Title VII

of the Civil Rights Act outlawed disparities in pay only when an employer paid

men and women different wages for doing the identical job. The agency's

decision closed a potential avenue of redress for women for the remainder of

the Reagan Administration.<p>





In July of 1985 five congressmen and three senators, including Senator Edward

Kennedy, the ranking Democrat on the Senate's Committee on Labor and Human

Resources, asked the General Accounting Office to investigate the EEOC. They

were "deeply concerned that the EEOC's ability to effectively attack

discrimination in the workplace [had] been diminished by a recent shift in

policy which may run counter to the intent of Congress in enacting these

remedial statutes." They insisted that Congress "required an extensive and

sustained" effort from the EEOC against the practices that led to

discrimination. They complained that their mandate was "being flouted by the

commission."<p>



With the arguments between Thomas and his critics growing louder, the EEOC

chairman suddenly found himself warmly received at the Justice Department and

the White House. He worked closely with Attorney General Edwin Meese in pushing

for a change in an executive order that requires federal contractors to show

that they have made efforts to hire minorities and women. Meese and Thomas

argued that the order amounted to quotas, because contractors who failed to

hire minorities and women were given goals and timetables that had to be met

under pain of losing government contracts. For the time being the executive

order remains in effect, however, because Republican political strategists have

judged that deleting all suggestion of quotas from the executive order carries

too high a political price.<p>

<br>

<br>





<font size=5>L</font>AST summer President Reagan nominated Clarence Thomas to a second term as

chairman of the EEOC. On August 12, 1986, Thomas won Senate confirmation. The

Senate's unanimous vote came a week after a 14-2 vote by the Labor and Human

Resources Committee to recommend Thomas for a second term. The two senators who

voted against Thomas in committee were Howard Metzenbaum, of Ohio, and Paul

Simon, of Illinois. Metzenbaum said he opposed Thomas because "he has not

brought [to the EEOC] a vigorous determination to enforce the law. . . . He has

failed to show the kind of leadership which the civil-rights community is

entitled to." The NAACP and the League of United Latin American Citizens said

that Thomas was the key to a Reagan Administration plan to "roll back civil

rights."<p>



But the opposition lacked passion. In joint testimony representatives of other

major civil-rights and women's rights groups, ranging from the National Urban

League to the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, said they did not know of

any group involved with civil liberties that wanted Thomas reappointed.

However, they said, "given this administration's record [we] have no illusions

that a nominee committed to strong enforcement would replace [Thomas]. This

Hobson's choice dilemma does nothing to quiet our concerns about the management

and policy of the EEOC for the past five years." The civil-rights groups seemed

reluctant to demand that Thomas be replaced even as they listed his faults.

Their hesitancy carried the day and helped to assure Thomas's confirmation. And

at the hearings, which were held in July, Thomas stole his opponents' thunder

by telling the committee that he had reversed his earlier position and ordered

the EEOC's lawyers to resume using goals and timetables against employers found

guilty of discrimination. "That's the law of the land, whether I like it or

not," he said. When Metzenbaum asked about his personal view of affirmative

action, Thomas replied, "Whatever reservations I have are purely personal.

They're subversive literature now." When some Democrats suggested that Thomas

might be merely saying expedient things on the record while off the record

instructing his lawyers not to return to goals and timetables, Thomas privately

promised, according to committee members, to send reports twice a year to the

Senate on the number and types of cases in which the EEOC makes use of hiring

and promotion goals and timetables. Despite such concessions, Thomas retains

considerable power to push his agenda at the EEOC -- an agenda that amounts to

curbing federal intervention.<p>



In mid-September, Attorney General Edwin Meese, Assistant Attorney General for

Civil Rights Bradford Reynolds, and Senator Strom Thurmond, the former

segregationist from South Carolina, came to the EEOC's offices to swear in

Clarence Thomas. It was an unlikely sight -- the three white men shaking hands

and slapping backs with Thomas. Reynolds had days earlier attacked Supreme

Court Associate Justice William Brennan as a man seeking "unlimited judicial

power to further a personalized egalitarian vision of society" through racial

preferences and a "liberal social agenda." Meese was about to give a speech

encouraging politicians to disregard Supreme Court rulings if they felt the

rulings were wrong. Clarence Thomas, in his moment of triumph, stood

shoulder-to-shoulder with his Administration colleagues. None of the three

stayed more than a few minutes at Thomas's celebration. But before he left,

Reynolds raised his glass. "It's a proud moment for me to stand here," he said,

"because Clarence Thomas is the epitome of the right kind of affirmative action

working the right way."<p>



Clarence Thomas flinched. Some of his aides looked down and shook their heads.

After all Thomas had been through in defense of the Administration position on

civil rights, Reynolds had implicitly dismissed him as an affirmative-action

hire. And, worse, Reynolds had thought it a compliment. Thomas showed a look of

cold hurt -- a look of disgust. He folded his arms across his chest and looked

away from Reynolds. By the time Meese had said a few words and Thurmond had

sworn him in, an uneasy smile had returned to Thomas's face. A few days later,

when I asked about his reaction to Reynolds's comment, Thomas waved his hand,

as if swatting away the memory. "I can't pay no attention to Brad," he said.<p></blockquote>



<p>

<hr>



<PRE>





</PRE>

<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1987 by Juan Williams.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-3</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B039-118</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/defense/nato.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117193303 text/html 30225
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:32:59 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Fri, 29 Mar 1996 20:08:37 GMT
Content-length: 30019
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html> 



<head> 

<!--THIS IS THE TEMPLATE FOR NOTES & COMMENTS-->



<title> 



A New Iron Curtain



</title> 



</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff>



<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->



<center>

			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->



<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 BORDER=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>



</center>



<p>



<font size=+2><b>Notes &amp; Comment</b></font> -- <font

size=3><i><b>January 1996</i></font></b>



			<!--BYLINE-->



<br><font size=4><b><A HREF="../../../issues/96Jan/contrib.htm#Lieven">By

Anatol Lieven</A></b></font>



			<!--SPACER-->



<p>



<pre>



</pre>

<center>



			<!--TITLE-->



	<h1>



	A New Iron Curtain



	</h1>



			<!--UNDERLINE-->



	<i><font size=4>

NATO is incautiously expanding eastward, which has thoughtful

 Russians

worried about being fenced out of Europe--and worse<p>

	</i></font>



<pre>





</pre>

</center>



		<!--TEXT-->



<blockquote>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>HE planned expansion of the <A HREF="http://www.nato.int/">North Atlantic Treaty 

	Organization</A> into Eastern

Europe has been compared by one sour critic to the behavior of a couple in a

crumbling marriage, who instead of going to a marriage counselor decide to try

to save their relationship by having a baby, or possibly even several babies.

<A HREF="http://www.saclant.nato.int/nato.html">NATO</A> itself is in the middle of a very confused debate about its identity and

role, and partly as a result it is difficult to detect any honest, coherent

discussion in the West of the necessity for expansion and of how it will affect

relations with Russia, the security of Ukraine and the Baltic States, and the

peaceful integration of Ukraine into Europe. A potential diplomatic debacle is

in the making. Fortunately, more and more voices are being raised in the United

States against this policy.<p>



<A HREF="../../../issues/96jan/nato/relarnat.htm"><img src="../../../images/shorsera.gif" align=left vspace=10 hspace=10 border=0 alt="(Related Articles)">

	

	</A>

The official Western line at present is that NATO expansion is meant to

"strengthen European security," but not against Russia or against feared

Russian aggression. Nevertheless, a Russian official recently remarked to me on

this score, "You must think we're blind and deaf." All public discussion in

Poland, and much of it in the United States, on the part of Zbigniew

Brzezinski, Henry Kissinger, Robert Dole, and others, has been conducted in

terms of the need to contain a presumed Russian threat and to prevent Russia

from exerting influence on its neighbors--influence that is automatically

viewed as illegitimate and threatening to the West.<p>



Western protests that NATO has completely changed its nature since 1990 are met

with Russian requests to be told exactly what, then, NATO is today--a question

to which NATO itself simply does not know the answer. Western diplomats are

unable to say what "security" in the context of, say, Poland actually

means--and therefore unable to give any intelligible response when asked how it

can be strengthened by NATO expansion.<p>



The attitude of Boris Yeltsin's government and the entire Russian political

establishment to the expansion issue (after some wavering, above all on the

part of <A HREF="gopher://gopher.nato.int:70/00/partners/rus2206.94">Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev</A>) is now strongly and

unanimously negative, though the government hopes for the moment to continue

exerting influence against expansion by cooperating with NATO--hence its

agreement to join the <A HREF="gopher://gopher.nato.int:70/11/partners">Partnership for Peace</A>.<p>



The reasons for Russian opposition are twofold: In the first place, NATO

expansion is seen as a betrayal of clear though implicit promises made by the

West in 1990-1991, and a sign that the West regards Russia not as an ally but

as a defeated enemy. Russians point out that Moscow agreed to withdraw troops

from the former East Germany following unification after NATO promised not to

station its troops there. Now NATO is planning to leapfrog over eastern Germany

and end up 500 miles closer to Russia, in Poland. Western arguments that the

1990 promise to Mikhail Gorbachev referred only to East Germany, not to the

rest of Eastern Europe, though strictly speaking correct, are not unnaturally

viewed by Russians as purely jesuitical. Yeltsin's officials say that NATO

expansion would lead to a reversal of the previous pro-



Western

policy of the Yeltsin and Gorbachev governments, with serious domestic

political consequences in the form of revanchist nationalism.<p>



In the second place, Russians fear that NATO expansion will ultimately mean the

inclusion of the Baltic States and Ukraine within NATO's sphere of influence,

if not in NATO itself--and thus the loss of any Russian influence over these

states and the stationing of NATO troops within striking distance of the

Russian heartland. Most Western diplomats privately say that these fears are

paranoid, but the West's inability publicly to rule out the possible future

inclusion of any country in NATO makes it very difficult to reassure the

Russians.<p>



The overwhelming majority of Russian politicians, including most liberals, now believe it is necessary that most of the former Soviet Union

(excluding the Baltic States) be within a Russian sphere of influence. They see

this not as imperialism but as a justifiable defense of Russian interests

against a multiplicity of potential threats (radical Islam, future Turkish

expansionism), of Russian populations outside Russia, and of areas in which

Russia has long maintained a cultural presence--Ukraine, for example. This does

not necessarily involve demands for hegemony over Russia's neighbors, but it

certainly implies the exclusion of any other bloc's or superpower's military

presence. In justification Russians point to the <A HREF="http://futures.wharton.upenn.edu/~heyman21/documents/monroe-d.html">Monroe Doctrine</A> and to the

French sphere of influence in Africa. Most educated Russians now view Western

criticism as mere hypocrisy masking Western aggrandizement. They point with

anger to America's arming of Turkey in recent years, and to what are seen as

recent attempts to expand U.S. influence in the former Soviet republics of

Central Asia, where arguments about strengthening local democracy or Western

security can hardly apply.<p>



For example, <A HREF="http://www.nd.edu/~astrouni/zhiwriter/spool/17.htm">General Alexander Lebed</A>, widely favored to win free elections for

the presidency if these are held on schedule, in June of 1996, has publicly

opposed the Russian military interventions in Tajikistan and Chechnya. He has

also, however, spoken with extreme bitterness about NATO's expansion, even

warning that this could lead to a third world war. Lebed told Reuters that NATO

is behaving like "a big drunken hooligan in a kindergarten who says he will hit

anyone he likes," and has said that NATO expansion into Eastern Europe would

force Russia to form a new military bloc of its own and cancel treaties and

military agreements with the West. He has also said, "The Cold War is over.

They won, and we all agreed to this. So why have you decided to re-open the

competition?"<p>



                             <center> *    *    *</center><p>



Threatened Russian responses to NATO expansion range from an end to cooperation

with the West should Poland become a member to bloodcurdling off-the-record

hints of destabilization and military action should membership look likely for

Ukraine and the Baltic States. In the words of Vladimir Lukin, the chairman of

the Duma Foreign Relations Committee and an ally of the liberal opposition

leader Grigory Yavlinsky, "If NATO wants to expand to Eastern Europe, then

first there must be a long process of international discussion, involving

Russia, about what NATO is, and what the threats to security in the region

really are and how they can be countered. But if NATO expansion were to aim at

ultimate membership for the Baltic States and Ukraine, without Russia, that

would be utterly unacceptable. No Russian could possibly accept the presence of

a potentially hostile NATO within striking distance of Smolensk--or what were

the sacrifices of the Second World War in aid of? I won't say how we should

react to such a threat, because I am committed to friendship between Russia and

the West. But I can tell you that the United States would find it a much more

dangerous process than dropping bombs on the Bosnian Serbs."<p>



Lukin and others have suggested that if NATO really does push forward against

Russia, then Russia may have to retarget its nuclear weapons on the West,

beginning with the restationing of tactical warheads in Kaliningrad. This may

be the only practical way for Russia, given its military weakness, to put

military pressure on the West; and if Western European populations were

suddenly to find themselves once again under nuclear threat as a result of what

could be portrayed as a reckless and aggressive U.S.-





led policy, the result would probably be a first-



class

political crisis in the West, possibly destroying NATO from within. Such a

likelihood is especially great in Germany, given the increasing role of the

Greens in government there. It must be stressed, however, that Lukin and others

speak of such a move only as the very last resort.<p>



Lukin would probably define himself as a statist at heart, but radical Russian

democrats also find NATO expansion deeply distressing, for reasons both of

patriotism and of liberalism and "Westernization": excluding Russia from Europe

and pushing it back toward Asia would increase Russia's "Asiatic" character in

the spiritual as well as the geographical sense. By symbolically pushing Russia

back to the status of Muscovy, as Russia was known before the reign of Peter

the Great, NATO expansion could also deal a blow of historic importance to the

whole effort, intermittent since the time of Peter, to reform Russia in a

Western direction.<p>



One normally sober, centrist, and pragmatic Russian foreign-policy adviser told

me not long ago that in the event of a NATO move toward Ukraine, Russia would

do its best to wreck the Ukrainian economy with an energy blockade, to rouse

the Russian populations of Crimea and eastern Ukraine to revolt, and to subvert

the Ukrainian armed forces, whose officer corps is still largely composed of

ethnic Russians. Of course, this may well be hot air. Russia might not dare

pursue such a strategy, and if it did dare, it might well discover itself to be

powerless--because Ukraine today is not nearly so weak or fissiparous as it was

a couple of years ago, and because most Russians in Ukraine would themselves

probably resist such moves. All the same, it hardly seems rational for the West

to increase the risk of such a crisis without some very pressing reasons.<p>



The no longer current belief in the West that Russia would not oppose expansion

came largely from the false impression of Russia's interests that was given by

Andrei Kozyrev and the democrats in the early 1990s, an impression the West was

very foolish to take at face value. We should have looked instead at Kozyrev's

political insignificance in the Moscow establishment and at the way that any

Russian establishment was sooner or later going to define permanent Russian

national interests. Over the past eighteen months Kozyrev's tactics and

statements have been largely dominated by the requirements of his own

short-term political survival. (These tactics appear not to have worked;

<A HREF="http://www.nando.net/newsroom/ntn/world/world426_15.html">Yeltsin has been hinting that he will dismiss Kozyrev</A>.)<p>



<center> *    *    *</center><p>



NATO expansion raises two serious questions for the West, neither of which has

been regularly addressed in the Western "debate" on the issue, despite the

acres of newsprint devoted to the subject. The first: Is fear of Russian

aggression justified? The second: Will NATO membership for Poland in particular

make Russia's western neighbors, Ukraine and the Baltic States, more or less

secure?<p>



The answer to the first question is that, as every Western military

attach&eacute; in Moscow with whom I have spoken agrees, a Russian military

threat to Poland and Eastern Europe is for the foreseeable future

inconceivable. The war in <A HREF="http://www.cesi.it/flags/chechnya.html">Chechnya</A> has been squalid and brutal, but given what

it has revealed about the state of the Russian army, and about most Russians'

complete lack of desire to fight wars, it should actually allow us all to sleep

more easily in our beds. Nor, given the transformation of the Eastern European

economies and political systems, does Russia have the ability to bring serious

nonmilitary pressure to bear on these states. Russia is therefore not an

immediate threat to Eastern Europe--so why the urgency about NATO expansion?<p>



This brings us to the second question, for a potential Russian threat to

Ukraine and the Baltic States obviously does exist. But as a Western ambassador

to Moscow recently told me he had cabled to his government, "If Kiev is more

secure, then Warsaw automatically becomes more secure, but this is not true the

other way round." Thus NATO membership for Poland might radically lessen

Ukraine's security, because Moscow, in a pre-emptive anti-



NATO

measure, would greatly increase pressure on Kiev to join a Russian-



dominated

military alliance. Western diplomats in Kiev are worried by this possibility.<p>



So, too, are the Ukrainians, who fear that NATO membership for Poland would

leave their country clearly designated as non-European. Recently President

Leonid Kuchma has put a brave face on NATO expansion, now that it seems

inevitable, but the worry remains. In the words of the distinguished Ukrainian-



Canadian

historian Bohdan Krawchenko, who has been training civil servants in Kiev for

the past two years, "NATO should be very careful over expansion. Its advocates

are raising all sorts of irrelevant points, when the only serious issue to be

considered is that of the security of Ukraine and the Baltic States. NATO may

make a disastrous decision--to draw a new iron curtain on the eastern frontier

of Poland. That would be as much as to say that Europe stops at the Visegrad

countries, and the rest of you can go to hell. . . . The problem is that

Western Europe doesn't know what Europe is, and hasn't even thought seriously

about what Europe should look like in twenty years' time. The West should be

thinking about this and drawing up long-



term

strategies, not making short-term political decisions. The integration of the

East Europeans into the West has to be an evolutionary process. Let it continue

for a while before taking any new steps."<p>



If Russia had already begun to put ruthless pressure on Ukraine and the Baltic

States, then the West might be justified in going ahead with NATO expansion

regardless; but no such pressure is currently being applied. On the contrary,

Moscow has actively discouraged radical Russian separatism in the Crimea, and

it has withdrawn its troops from the Baltic States, subsequently exerting

neither military nor economic pressure on the Balts, despite deep anger at the

policies of those states toward their Russian minorities. Moscow has been tough

in its negotiations with Kiev over control of the Black Sea fleet and its base

at Sevastopol, but without resorting to military pressure. According to all the

Western military analysts I have spoken to, there has been no redeployment

whatsoever of Russian forces so as to threaten Ukraine.<p>



Russia today is both weaker and much more cautious than most people in the West

realize. There are no indications at present that the Yeltsin government or any

other rational Russian government that might come into being (excluding, that

is, the likes of Zhirinovsky and his adherents) would be willing to pay the

immense economic and diplomatic costs of trying to bring Ukraine and the Balts

to their knees. As for the Russian people, while they are certainly deeply

nostalgic for the Soviet Union and great-power status, they are also deeply

unwilling to sacrifice Russian lives and money to restore that status. This is

shown by the widespread unpopularity of the military operations in Chechnya and

Tajikistan--something that should give pause to those in the West who talk

about Russians' being "naturally imperialist." The French, for example, fought

infinitely harder in defense of their colonial empire, from the 1940s to the

1960s, than the Russians have done.<p>



Apart from Chechnya and Tajikistan, Russian military pressure on the republics

to submit to Russian hegemony, though often cynical and ruthless, has been

exercised through local intermediaries (Abkhaz, Ossetes, Armenians,

Transdniestrians), and has therefore been both veiled and limited in scope. As

for the intervention in Chechnya, the whole affair has been morally vile, but

this republic is, after all, internationally recognized as part of the <A HREF="http://www.paradise.net/~tsp/russia.html">Russian

Federation</A>, and the Russian government hesitated for more than three years

before finally invading, in the face of immense provocation from

DzhokarDudayev, the President of Chechnya. Western governments over the past

generation or so would have shown less restraint. What has happened in Chechnya

therefore does not necessarily prefigure Russian policies beyond Russia's

borders--especially since Russia has gotten such a bloody nose there.<p>



Western diplomats in Moscow generally know all this--though I detect an

alarming tendency among the more opportunistic and cowardly of them to suppress

this knowledge in the face of the prevailing wind blowing from their

chancelleries at home, and among those chancelleries simply to ignore or censor

advice from their Moscow embassies when it runs counter to the new Western

consensus.<p>



One problem is that in the West the  public discussion, insofar as it exists at

all, is taking place in an atmosphere of op-



ed

pieces highly colored by Cold War attitudes, Russophobia, ignorance of the

region, fundamental indifference to the fate of the Balts and the Ukrainians,

and a hypocritical refusal to set Russia's present experience in a general

context of European decolonization and neo-



colonialism--at

which point it becomes clear that brutal defense of an existing sphere of

influence does not necessarily make a country a threat to the rest of the

world.<p>



<center> *    *    *</center><p>



The global threat from the Soviet Union came from a mixture of that state's

implacable anti-



Western

ideology, communism's claim to universal truth and applicability, and the

immensely powerful Soviet armed forces. Russia today possesses none of these

features, and Russian nationalism, while often dangerous and disgusting, poses

no direct threat to anyone beyond the borders of the former Soviet Union. Since

Russia is thus not a security threat to Eastern Europe, and most Western

analysts know this, the real but unacknowledged motives for NATO expansion have

to be sought elsewhere. They appear to be fourfold.<p>



<li> Within the United States the reason seems to be strongly connected to

electoral politics, in the desire of both the Clinton Administration and its

Republican opponents to appeal to the Polish and other ethnic lobbies, and in

the desire of the Administration to be seen as taking a firm, tough, "dynamic"

initiative in international affairs, so as to counteract a general impression

of confusion and weakness. Among the Republicans, however, the wish for a

stronger U.S. stand against China and Russia coincides with a growing

unwillingness to supply foreign aid to regional states or to pursue nonmilitary

strategies of deterrence--an intellectually ludicrous and politically dangerous

mixture, because it risks encouraging the Ukrainians, for example, to take up

tougher positions vis-&agrave;-vis Moscow, only to find themselves abandoned by

the United States should a crisis result.<p>



<li> The Western Europeans are falling in line with this U.S. initiative above all

out of fear that America will turn isolationist and withdraw from Europe--a

fear strengthened by aspects of contemporary Republicanism and mutual

irritations over Bosnia. In the (patronizing) words of one Western European

diplomat, "We have to give the Americans some new toys to play with in NATO,

because we're afraid that otherwise they may get bored and go home."<p>



The Germans in particular have a curious mixture of attitudes: Liberal Germans

are possessed by their old fear that unless Germany is anchored in NATO, and

NATO is maintained by being expanded, German nationalists may be tempted once

again to pursue the German <i>Sonderweg</i> ("separate path"). The

nationalists, for their part, do see NATO expansion as a path to greater German

influence in Europe, and to rolling back  Russia, which they detest for having

defeated and humiliated them in 1945. Both camps want a row of NATO buffer

states between themselves and the unstable former Soviet Union, even at the

risk of making that instability much worse. In neither case is it an ethical

position.<p>



<li> An additional Western European reason for agreeing to NATO expansion is an

awareness of just how difficult it will be to expand the <A HREF="http://www.lib.duke.edu/pdmt/eu.html">European Union</A>, the

other Western organization that the Eastern Europeans are passionately eager to

join. Russia has no objections to EU expansion, because although it would

clearly expand Western influence, it would also carry the possibility of major

economic advantages for Russia. Thus the Russian government actually publicly

welcomed Finland's entry into the EU.<p>



But as far as the EU itself is concerned, full membership for the Eastern

Europeans is the subject of an immense internal debate, at a time when Europe

is nowhere near digesting or resolving the consequences of 

<A HREF="http://www.echo.lu/eudocs/en/maastricht/mt_top.html">Maastricht</A> or

agreeing on its own future nature and identity. In particular, expansion to

include Eastern Europe would mean a complete renegotiation of the Common

Agricultural Policy--an idea that makes European officials blench. From the

point of view of, say, French officials, Russian anger pales into

insignificance when compared with the fury of French farmers, who can really

make them suffer--or so they think. But clearly the West has to do something to

honor all those promises to the Eastern Europeans--so why not expand NATO?<p>



<li> Finally, there is the sheer force of bureaucratic inertia and interest

politics. NATO is an immense international military-bureaucratic organization

that also directly and indirectly feeds huge numbers of intellectuals,

journalists, and analysts. Consciously or unconsciously, all these people have

a strong interest in keeping their jobs by finding a new and continuing role

for NATO; and if they can't agree on such a role, then expansion will have to

serve as a substitute. The intellectually lazy and cowardly among them also

find it easier to recycle Cold War images of the Russian threat than to try to

make sense of a new and confusing multipolar world--in which, for example, one

really ought to know some foreign languages. <p>



All these factors together add up to immensely powerful political reasons for

NATO expansion--but reasons that are utterly feeble in terms of the real

interests both of the West and of Russia's neighbors.<p>



The risk now exists that relations with Russia are about to enter an ever-



faster

downward spiral. In the context of the Russian parliamentary elections due at

this writing to be held in December and of the presidential election scheduled

for June, anti-



Western

rhetoric is bound to increase. The same will be true, to a lesser extent, of

anti-



Russian

rhetoric in the United States in the period before the presidential elections.

Harsh Russian statements may lead to speeded-



up

NATO expansion; the Russian response will then become even harsher; and so on.

The potential consequences of this range from the serious to the disastrous.

(If the Russian presidential elections are canceled, or if Yeltsin dies before

then and there is an attempt to create some sort of dilapidated Yeltsinite

autocracy, then the implications for Russian foreign policy will not be so

clear.)<p>



For the moment Western readiness to renegotiate the Conventional Forces in

Europe Treaty so as to accommodate Russia's new post-Soviet strategic position

has helped to prevent a complete breakdown. So, too, has the fact that NATO has

made it clear that the process of accepting the new members will take several

years.



<center> *    *    *</center><p>



For the future, however, it is still the case that Russian officials and

analysts threaten a general collapse of cooperation and deliberate Russian

attempts to sabotage Western interests elsewhere in the world in the event of a

rapid NATO expansion to Eastern Europe without some considerable compensation

for Russia. For example, at present the standing orders to Russian diplomats at

the United Nations are to cooperate with the West except when this is seen as

clearly against Russia's interests. Those orders could be changed, and the UN

returned to its position of Cold War paralysis. This might not worry those

Republicans who in any case loathe the UN, but it ought to worry every

Westerner who is aware of how frequently the UN has served the West's interests

since 1990.<p>



In the new, unpredictable multipolar world, and given the potential danger from

China over the next few years, Western policy toward Russia should in my view

be devoted to keeping options open, and keeping an eye on the West's possible

future need of Russia as an ally--since Western and Russian interests still

actually coincide in several vital parts of the world. This policy should be

abandoned only if a Russian government demonstrates clearly aggressive

intentions toward its western neighbors--which is not at present the case. And

as Bohdan Krawchenko has stressed, this is no moment--just as economic reform

in Ukraine is beginning to gather speed--to be risking Ukraine's progress

toward the West, by drawing new borders that exclude it.<p>



If NATO expansion is slowed to take account of Russia's objections, and if

Russia tones down those objections so as not to strain its relations with the

West, the reason is indeed likely to be China. Both Russian and Western

policymakers are increasingly aware that it would be very foolish for either

Russia or the West to allow the issue of NATO expansion in Europe to wreck the

chances of future cooperation in the Far East at a time when China's future is

looking so uncertain, and when so many potential Chinese threats to Far Eastern

security and even territory exist. <p>



Russian policy therefore remains to try to influence NATO by cooperating with

it--hence the decision to join the Partnership for Peace. An additional reason

for this policy is that although the anger of Russian diplomats over NATO

behavior is unfeigned, more serious and less paranoid Russians do of course

realize that NATO represents no threat of direct attack on Russia. Indeed, the

Western alliance's display of weakness, cowardice, and internal divisions over

Bosnia has diminished Russian fears of NATO as an organization.<p>



There remains, therefore, a good chance that over the next few years NATO

expansion, and the Russian response to it, will be finessed so as to reduce any

damage to NATO-



Russian

relations and any threat of greater instability in the former Soviet Union.

Alternatively, that expansion will be delayed until the emergence of new global

issues makes the whole question seem unimportant to both Russia and the West.

There is also, however, a real danger that under a new, more nationalist

Russian government, and a more hard-line Republican Administration in the

United States, disputes over the issue would veer out of control, with

consequences that cannot be foreseen.

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1996 by The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; January 1996; A New Iron Curtain; Volume 277, 

No. 1;

page(s) 20-25

</font>



</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-4</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA044-000800-B031-78</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/atlweb/digicult/lombreg/somebody.htm 205.216.101.132 19970118130525 text/html 55936
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Sat, 18 Jan 1997 13:05:02 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Fri, 20 Dec 1996 18:09:02 GMT
Content-length: 55730
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Somebody Up There Likes Me
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>

						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headau.map"> <img src="../../../images/headau.gif" 
ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="Atlantic Unbound"></a>
</center>
<p>

<font size=2> As originally published in<br> <i> The Atlantic Monthly 
</i></font><p>
<b><font size=4>
December 1994</b></font><br>
<p>
<br>

						<!--TITLE-->
<center>
<h1>Somebody Up There Likes Me</h1> 
</center>

<center><font size=4><b>by Ralph Lombreglia</b></font></center>
<p>
<br>
						<!--UNDERLINE-->

<BLOCKQUOTE>
<center>
<b><i>Some people say that when a woman moves 1,500 miles from her mate to get a
Ph.D. in women's studies, it's the beginning of the end.</i></b><p>
</center>
</BLOCKQUOTE>
<br>
<br>
						
<blockquote>

<font size = 5>I</font> LOGGED on and got a Network fortune cookie, followed by E-mail from my
distant wife.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>

<tt>
Afternoon favorable for romance. Try a single person for a change.<p>

Date: Mon, 12 Apr 99 14:27 GMT<br>

From: Snookie Lee Ludlow &lt;snooks@women.tex.edu&gt;<br>

To: Dante Allegro Annunziata &lt;dante@media.sjcm.edu&gt;<br>

Subject: RE: For your delectation<p>

Dante,<p>

Your last missive was so cold, I thought somebody sent me an Alaskan sockeye
salmon. Then I saw on TV where the sockeye's extinct, so now I don't know what
your problem is.<p>

Stop hurting people, you monster.<p>

Snooks<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

I was on the old mainframe terminal in my office at school, surrounded by
cinder-block walls and shelves stuffed chaotically with tapes and disks. I
hadn't seen a friendly face in a week. Sometimes when I was down, the
random-sentence generator cheered me up, so I knocked off a few new ones.<p>



<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
The president's unlikely urchin is tripping.<br>

The awful dogs are howling.<br>

Couldn't robots dine on jurisprudence?<br>

And why shouldn't buildings puzzle over people?<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


You could feed the generator your own personal glossary of terms.<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Vengeful Snookie bubbles San Antone into flames while academic watchmen
practice celestial sloth in bed.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

In my last mail to Snookie Lee, I had sent some morsels like these -- 
affectionately, to make her smile -- and she'd taken them all wrong: the 
whole story of Snooks and me.  She was in San Antonio and I was in San 
Jose, and some people say that when a woman moves 1,500 miles from her mate 
to get a Ph.D.  in women's studies, it's the beginning of the end, if not 
the end of the end, and refuting those prophets of woe is not easy.  Yes, 
we had taken some bad falls, Snookie Lee and I.  We were edging into the 
Humpty Dumpty zone.  But I thought we could put it together again, and I 
was doing my best to convince Snookie of that.<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
&lt;flame on&gt;<br>

*MY* letter was cold! Ha! You've been like ice! Maybe *my* feelings are hurt!
I'm the loyal and true one! I'm the one who acts like he cares! You're the one
who's trying to dump the whole thing down the sewer!<br>

&lt;flame off&gt;<p>

I made my computer do anagrams of your sweet name, Snooks -- about 100,000 before
I pulled the plug. Then I spent a whole day picking my favorites when I was
supposed to be grading papers. Do men do this if they're not in love?<p>

Like, elude solo now. Loud, sleek loin woe. Look, we use old line. Woo skill
elude one. I use lone lewd look. Look, Lee, we sin loud. Oil noose well, Duke.
Look, Lee, widen soul. Would Snook Lee lie? Look, slow Lee due in.<p>

Do lie low, keen soul,<p>

Dante<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

<p>

Besides Snookie's letter I had four from Mary Beth -- three from last week, which
I had not read, and a new one posted early this morning, all bearing the
subject line "Your position here" -- and I could have gone on to read them now,
but I wasn't in the mood. Mary Beth was the chair of language and media studies
at San Jose College of the Mind, where I was a junior professor. She was also
out to get me. Indeed, Mary Beth's machinations were part of the reason that
Snookie was gone. Snooks had wanted to teach too, to chisel those young minds,
and she deserved her chance. Not only did she have sufficient credentials, but
she had more heart than the whole College of the Mind put together. But Mary
Beth wouldn't give her even a section of Mastering Capitalistic Prose. I
volunteered to give her a section of mine, and Mary Beth said no. When they
offered me the position, they said I'd come up for tenure in three or four
years; after Snooks applied to teach, Mary Beth took me off the tenure track.<p>

<br>

<font size=5>I</font> MET Snooks at a poetry slam in 1995, when I was 
finishing my graduate media degree at MIT.  She was up from Alabama to show 
them a thing or two at Harvard, where she had made it all the way to her 
senior year.  Somehow we never crossed paths in Cambridge, though she was 
all over town and hard to miss.  We slammed, finally, in the bowels of 
Boston, in a basement bookstore on Newbury Street, where Snookie Lee 
declaimed verses of outrage and indignation while shaking her spiky hair 
and waving Simone Weil at the audience.  They loved her.  I had to follow 
her on with my sheaf of technological rhapsodies.  They hated me.  But the 
opinion I cared about was Snookie Lee's.  I sidled up to her after the gig 
and asked what she thought of my stuff.  She hated it, but she loved my 
name.  On the strength of that, I asked her out.  "I've got a date with 
Dante!" she said, laughing, to one of her girlfriends.<p>

She was all bluff and flying feathers, and then she was my everything. We
graduated and I got the offer from College of the Mind, and since my fellow
Ph.D.s seemed ready to slit my throat for the job, I took it. Snookie said she
would follow me if I promised it was nice. My best childhood friend, Boyce
Hoodington, had lived twenty miles north, in Palo Alto, for years, and he loved
it out there. He was a project leader for a company trying to simulate human
consciousness with a computer. Many California outfits were trying to do that,
without much luck, but Boyce's firm had achieved a few small, sexy triumphs
that kept the investors turned on. The firm's computer now recognized specific
people when they walked into the room, greeted them, and commented on the
clothes they were wearing. It could do other things, Boyce had told me -- things
he wasn't allowed to talk about.<p>

<p>

So I promised Snookie she'd like California, and we lived there for three
incredibly crummy years -- crummy for me, the indentured professor in the house,
thermonuclear for Snooks. Our problems went beyond Mary Beth. We experienced
other disillusionments, too, such as the discovery that certain faculty couples
masquerading as our friends were doing us dirty behind the scenes. Looking back
on it, trying to fix the damage by getting married was not the best idea.
Snookie said so at the time. I won't say that in those dark days when she
didn't get out of bed till 4:00 P.M., and never took off her robe, and College
of the Mind was leaking its acid into my brain, I was Jovian about it. But I
still think that in the disappointing run of men I'm a prize.<p>

<p>

I told all this to Snookie Lee as we stood on the dead lawn of our rented
bungalow, her ancient, eggplant-colored Le Car parked halfway up on the
sidewalk, stuffed full of her things. She was going to San Antonio to get her
own Ph.D. In the last year of our three Snooks ended up as a night-shift
checkout girl at a discount drug superstore, and the worst thing was, she liked
it. She stopped blaming me for ruining her life. She now said that I'd
inadvertently brought about her rebirth. She'd made a lot of new girlfriends at
the store, muscular young women who weren't ever going to College of the Mind
or college of the anything, and Snooks would go aerobic dancing and skating
with them. She decided that the best thing in life was sisterhood. I hardly
ever saw her anymore. On our separation day her friends spun over on their
blades to bid Snookie Lee good-bye. They stood wobbling on the brown grass in
their colorful tights and kneepads, saying supportive things to Snooks and
giving bad looks to me.<p>

<p>

I said, "Sisterhood means a lot to me, too, you know." The women had a good
guffaw over that. I told Snooks she was breaking my heart. <p>

<p>

She said, "You know those plastic ant-farm things? How you buy one, and then
later decide you don't really want ants after all, and you empty the whole
thing out on the ground? That's heartbreak, Dante. For the ants, I mean. You're
not heartbroken. You don't even look sad."<p>

<p>

"I'm very Goddamn heartbroken," I said.  "Don't tell me how heartbroken I 
am." The girlfriends rolled closer to Snookie Lee.  I <i>was</i> 
heartbroken, but Snookie and I had beaten each other down so badly that our 
parting scene was playing like dinner theater.  "And that analogy's no 
good," I told her.  "Those ant-farm ants are an exotic breed that can't 
live in the wild.  Otherwise they wouldn't <i>be</i> heartbroken.  They'd be 
happy.  They'd be free."<p>

<p>

"You're free," Snookie Lee said.<p>

<p>

"I never asked to be free! I'm exotic!" I exclaimed, but I got nowhere. Snookie
Lee drove away.<p>

<br>

I was about to log off when my terminal chirped and said, in its silly voice,
"<i>You have new mail.</i>" I hoped the message was from her. If she was online, maybe
I could ping her for a real-time chat. But the letter turned out to be from
Boyce. I punched it up.<p>

<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 99 20:53 GMT<br>

From: Boyce P. Hoodington &lt;boyce@softbrain.com&gt;<br>

To: Dante Allegro Annunziata &lt;dante@media.sjcm.edu&gt; <br>

Subject: Death and pasta<p>

Would have got back to you sooner, but I died. Have not logged on in days, and
now speak to you from the beyond. My #*^!%!* computer went down like the
Hindenburg -- cellular port hosed, motherboard toasted. I'm on the dusty laptop
now, shades of Orville Wright. It periodically stalls out and drops through the
clouds of our thrilling but turbulent present-day network. If I suddenly
disappear, that's why.<p>

I must have a new box, Dante! Let's shop for it together! Tonight, after
partaking of a momentous baked ziti. Mounds of baby peas, asparagus, and musky
salad greens from the garden have turned our kitchen into a Tuscan stone
cottage. I may videodisk it, it's so beautiful. But Janet regards me strangely
when I videodisk food. And wait till you taste this fresh-faced fume with
overtones of apple and pear. Spanking beverage. Bought a case. Snatched a spicy
zinfandel, too. Come on up! -- BPH<p>

P.S. I'll tell my sad corporate story. Slithering beast of commerce, it's a
snakepit out here. Be thankful you chose the cloistered life.<p>

P.P.S. We must talk about Snookie. You don't sound good, my brother. Janet has
thoughts for you. Never mind free enterprise, Dante; women are the great
challenge of our lives, the parabolic arena where we Rollerblade like angels at
the speed of light, and where, I fear, we are destined to wipe out grotesquely.
Yet we skate on blindly into the night. Why? Because of love, that hot
transistor smoking within us.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

My office hours at College of the Mind had another hour to run, but not a
single student had come to see me so far. True, my door was closed and locked,
and I was being very quiet. My lights were off. If I left now, I could go home
and take a shower, change into my jeans (Mary Beth forbade teaching in jeans),
and still make it to Boyce's for happy hour. I blowgunned my answer into the
bitstream -- <p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
I Brake for Baked Ziti<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


 -- and was yet again on the cusp of logging off when I remembered the
text-dissociation software they had on the server. It could sometimes ease the
misery inflicted upon people by words. I gave it Snookie's letter to eat.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
St. Dante,<p>

I, thou monster. I saw on Sockeye TV where the salmon is cold. Cold, cold,
cold. I thought somebody sent me an Alaskan Salmonster, but now I don't know
what your last missive was. Your problem's extinct, you hurting salmon.<p>

You, monstero, the Sockeye Salmolast.<p>

Salmonstop,<p>

Snooksego<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


It didn't kill much pain, but I sent it to her anyway.<p>

<br>

<font size=5>I</font> DROVE my Fuji Chroma up 280 from San Jose to Palo Alto amid contorted oaks on
hilltops, like bonsai trees in amber waves of grain, except the waves weren't
grain, they were dead meadow grass, two or three feet high and browned-out from
drought, emblem of our republic. Also a fire hazard that should have been mowed
down. A red-tailed hawk sailed from a knobby tree, plunged to the undulating
grass, and flapped back to its branch with mythic pumps of the wings, taking a
field mouse on a commuter hop to God.<p>

<p>

The foothills reminded me of hobbit-land, furry cafe-au-lait knolls where
Frodo, Gandalf, et al., would have felt at home. Zipping up the artery in my
tiny car, I succumbed to a conviction that hobbits were living there now, in
burrows beneath the gnomish topography. The old Tolkien books -- the interactive
laser-disk versions -- had lately made a great comeback with students, and I'd
been using them in my classes at College of the Mind. For doing that and
certain other groovy things, I was considered a cool professor, and my sections
never failed to fill up. I got glowing reviews in the campus electronic
magazine, to the profound irritation of Mary Beth, whose classes the students
routinely panned. And yet educating endless waves of the young had begun to
unnerve me. The act of teaching unnerved everyone eventually, but usually
because your students were always nineteen while you withered into your grave
before their eyes. My problem was different -- I remained the same while they
mutated into a different species. My students implanted digital watches in the
skin of their wrists, tattooed and barbered themselves so as not to appear
human, took personalized drugs made from their own DNA, and danced
epileptically to industrial noise. I fantasized about taking them on a field
trip to the foothills for the semester-wrap picnic and then, in the thick of
the hobbit hunt, vanishing -- never to be seen again. Perhaps they'd start a
religion based on the mystery of my disappearance. Perhaps spirituality would
flower on earth once more.<p>

<p>

When I pulled up to Boyce's, his front lawn was preternaturally thick and
green, like a gigantic flattop haircut for St. Patrick's Day. He and Janet
loved landscaping and were always ministering to their lawn. I wished I had a
nice house and yard like theirs. Actually, I wished I had anything. It hit me
that I should enter the private sector, like Boyce, where your bosses didn't
punish you for doing your job. I found him in his modern, shiny kitchen at the
back of the house, assembling a fine baked ziti in a big casserole dish. He was
a North Carolina Methodist, supposedly, but some Mediterranean blood had got in
there somehow. The man could cook. "Romano!" he said in greeting, pointing to a
quarter wheel of the stuff.<p>

<p>

"I got E-mail from Snookie today," I said, grating the cheese.<p>

<p>

"Excellent!" Boyce said. "You're talking! What did she say?"<p>

<p>

"That I was a monster."<p>

<p>

"All women say that about men, Dante. It's a figure of speech."<p>

<p>

"What does it mean?"<p>

<p>

"It means we're monsters."<p>

<p>

We built the ziti and slid it into the oven. Boyce poured us big goblets of
fum&eacute;. "To a new life for us all."<p>

<p>

We clinked and sipped. "What do you want a new life for?" I asked.<p>

<p>

"I meant the new one we're all getting, want it or not."<p>

<p>

"What happened?"<p>

<p>

"Tell you outside. Where nature can absorb the toxins."<p>

<p>

We took our glasses to the verdant back yard. Boyce and Janet had a
triple-depth lot -- 150 feet of Palo Alto crust in which Boyce had laid
drip-irrigation lines, so that now it looked like the Garden of Eden back
there. Lemons and limes and oranges hung over our heads at the round terrace
table. Zippy the hummingbird was doing his air-and-space show, flashing in from
nowhere to sip at his feeder, and then buzzing our heads before zinging back to
the treetop where he lived. The little nugget of his beelike body stood in
relief against the sky, microscopic stud on a eucalyptus branch.<p>

<p>

"You can't see the knife?" Boyce said, twisting to show me his back.<p>

<p>

I looked around him. "You've got it hidden pretty well."<p>

<p>

"I'm out."<p>

<p>

"Of what?"<p>

<p>

"SoftBrain Technologies."<p>

<p>

"What? You were in charge of the whole project. It was your division."<p>

<p>

"The division they lopped off in the corporate downsizing." <p>

<p>

"They lop off whole divisions?"<p>

<p>

"That was the normal part. The stinky part was tricking me into lopping it for
them."<p>

<p>

And then Boyce told his tale. Nearly a year before, without telling him, his
bosses had cut a deal to sell the consciousness-emulation division. The buyers
thought they were paying too much and wanted something extra thrown in,
something big and sweet. Boyce was assigned a strange and urgent top-secret
task, on which he worked his heart out until just the week before -- working,
though he didn't know it, for his own extinction. I demanded that he tell me
this top-secret thing.<p>

<p>

"Oh, it was so typical. So depressingly superficial. Nothing. They wanted to
see the computer hold a credible conversation."<p>

<p>

"But it's been doing that for years."<p>

<p>

"Not with its lips."<p>

<p>

"<I>Lips</I>! It has <I>lips</I>? I didn't know it had lips!"<p>

<p>

"I just violated my nondisclosure agreement. Don't spread that around."<p>

<p>

"Lips!"<p>

<p>

Monday of the previous week, at 9:00 A.M., Boyce had demoed the lips for the
company brass and some invited guests with English accents. The lips were
gorgeous. Everybody loved the lips. The brass congratulated Boyce in a way that
implied a promotion and a load of stock. He returned to his office to pop corks
with the team, though it was only coffee-break time. He felt the burgeoning
glory of his division, soon to be the company jewel. At 3:00 P.M. he got the
call to close it down. The British guests were the buyers. They were taking the
sucker to England, lips and all.<p>

<p>

It took me a minute to absorb this slimy information.  "But they 
<I>liked</I> you," I said at last.<p>

<p>

"Oh, they still do," Boyce said. "They love me. I'm a great guy."<p>

<p>

In the week since his severance he'd been home in seclusion, drinking boutique
wine and having his spine realigned by a private masseuse. Only this morning
had Boyce awakened with a craving to re-enter the world.<p>

<p>

"How's Janet taking it?"<p>

<p>

"Overjoyed. She thinks I've been miraculously spared from my own worst
tendencies. She thinks I was going corporate -- me, of all people."<p>

<p>

"Were you?"<p>

<p>

"Of course I wasn't! I thought the lips were stupid. Here we were on the trail
of consciousness itself, and all the managers cared about was lips."<p>

<p>

"Humanity's signal-to-noise ratio isn't so hot, is it?"<p>

<p>

"Worst in the animal kingdom. By a mile."<p>

<p>

"But we've put out some pretty clean signal, too," I said reflectively. "Over
the years. Down through the centuries. It adds up."<p>

<p>

Boyce slapped my arm. "That's what I woke up this morning thinking!" he
exclaimed. "That's what I've learned from all this!"<p>

<p>

"What?"<p>

<p>

"That everything we've done with computers until now is totally trivial and
wrong! Why have we not yet created a fantastic, free, self-reflective knowledge
base of every good thing humanity has ever thought or dreamed? Not just
consciousness, Dante. <I>Cosmic</I> consciousness! That's what I want to build now.
The computerized mind of the world!"<p>

<p>

"And you say Janet's not worried about you?"<p>

<p>

"She doesn't know yet. She'll love it when I explain it. I kind of got the idea
from her, in fact. But since you mention it, it's you she's worried about."<p>

<p>

Fum&eacute; went up my nose and fizzed my sinuses. "<I>Me</I>?"<p>

<p>

"She wants me to watch you very closely. She thinks you may do some harm to
yourself."<p>

<p>

One is rarely prepared to meet the shabby figure one actually cuts in the
world, even if one already has a pretty clear mental image of the wretch. "You
don't think that, do you, Boyce?"<p>

<p>

"Would it make you feel better or worse if I did?"<p>

<p>

"Worse. Definitely worse."<p>

<p>

"Then I don't."<p>

<p>

My harming myself was a silly idea, but it was nice to have friends who
considered me a walking pipe bomb and yet continued to care. True, that was
practically Janet's job: she was a Jungian therapist, not to mention a splendid
woman at whose sagacious feet I should probably throw myself for guidance. She
was certainly the best thing that ever happened to Boyce, and her wonderfulness
made me wish that I had a wife too. Then I remembered -- I did.<p>

<p>

"Can I use your Chokecherry to check my mail?" I asked Boyce.<p>

<p>

"Be my guest, but it might not even get you on. I had a hell of a time with it
today. A few keys are falling off, too."<p>

<p>

"I'll nurse it along."<p>

<p>

"Try slapping it."<p>

<p>

I ducked the pendulous oranges and crossed the back yard beneath fantastical
shapes in the California clouds, smiling at the idea of Boyce's still using the
old Chokecherry 100. The kitchen was like a lung filled with baked ziti's
life-affirming breath. I walked through it and on into the darkened living and
dining rooms, where the recently restuccoed walls were already cracked again
from tremors. In Boyce's study the big computer lay dead on its table, the
little Chokecherry sleeping beside it and waking up reluctantly when I touched
its wobbly keys. Once, people had thrilled to own this little appliance of the
brain. True to its name, it choked when I logged on, but I lashed it forward
with repeated jabs of the Escape key. It tried to read me the fortune cookie
that appeared on the screen, but the loudspeaker was broken and the latest
assessment of my destiny sounded like a faltering Bronx cheer.<p>

<p>

<BLOCKQUOTE>
<TT>
It may be that your whole purpose in life is simply to serve as a warning to
others.<p>
</TT>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


<p>

And then my one new letter flashed onto the gray wafer of screen. It was from
Snookie Lee.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 99 21:09 GMT<br>

From: Snookie Lee Ludlow &lt;snooks@women.tex.edu&gt;<br>

To: Dante Allegro Annunziata &lt;dante@media.sjcm.edu&gt; <br>

Subject: RE: Dissociated Love<p>

Dante,<p>

I'm going nuts and you're helping me do it. You're helping quite nicely.<p>

What was that stuff you sent? "Salmonstop" and all that. "Snooksego." What was
that supposed to be? I don't understand your problem anymore. I used to think I
did. I'm not studying to be a shrink. I'm studying to be a scholar, which I now
realize means I need a shrink myself. Maybe yours would take me on; she's used
to people with bullet holes in their feet AND their heads.<p>

Would Snook Lee lie? No, she wouldn't. I'm taking my orals an hour from now.
You'll claim you didn't know, though I've told you numerous times. You don't
listen when I talk. I'm not nervous. Nerves are not why I feel like barfing. I
feel like Polly, the girl who wanted a cracker. They've stuffed me full of
their theories, and now they want me to spit them back. But I don't even
believe in half that stuff. More than half. My professors aren't bad people,
they just turn their students into apes. No, they don't do it, this system does
it! This rotten system! I hate it!<p>

But why am I telling you this? You're an ape yourself!<p>

This is what I've been living with. I would've told you before, but I, for one,
don't believe in throwing up on people. I gotta go.<p>

Snooks<p>

P.S. Get help.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


From the time-stamp on Snookie's letter, I figured her orals were over by now.
I clacked out my answer on Boyce's broken keys.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
I'm up at Boyce's for dinner. I'm sorry you're not getting this before your
exams. I would have wished you luck. You never told me they were today! You
didn't! This is something you're always doing, telling me you told me things
when you didn't tell me.<p>

You were having pre-exam hysteria, Snooks -- all that stuff about spitting back
theories and whatnot. Classic symptoms. Just calm down and be yourself and
you'll do fine. God, what saccharine advice. Fortunately, you didn't get it. If
you're reading this, it's all over, and you did just fine, didn't you? Academia
does this to people, Snooks. I, for one, am getting out.<p>

When you have your Ph.D., I'll work in the drugstore and you can teach college!
I can't wait!<p>

I am not an ape and you know it.<p>

Love, love, love,<p>

Dante<p>

P.S. Remember Boyce's incredible baked ziti? It's in the oven right now. And
then we're going computer shopping for him. I'm gonna call you later.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

<p>

I shot my letter into the colossal web of the Net. When I looked up, Janet was
standing in the door. "Fixing Boyce's computer?" she said.<p>

<p>

"Hi. No, I was just saying something to Snookie Lee."<p>

<p>

Janet looked around. "Snookie's here?"<p>

<p>

"I meant I was E-mailing her."<p>

<p>

"Oh, E-mail. Not talking on the videophone?" We giggled over that for a second.
Janet famously loathed all technology after the fountain pen. "Boyce thought
the little computer was broken too," she said.<p>

<p>

"It is, Janet. Just because you can answer your mail doesn't mean a computer
works. See?" I picked up the Chokecherry and turned it upside down. Five or six
keys fell off and a guitar pick dropped out. "He needs a new computer."<p>

<p>

"I've heard. Well, you're communicating, at least." <p>

<p>

"Of course we're communicating," I said, skeptical that Janet really considered
Boyce's layoff a great development. "I'm here, aren't I? But it would be a hell
of a lot easier with a better computer."<p>

<p>

"Oh, I'm sure a better computer would help immensely. When was the last time
you told her you loved her?"<p>

<p>

"I thought we were talking about Boyce."<p>

<p>

"We were clearly talking about Snookie Lee."<p>

<p>

"We were talking about Boyce and computers! You shrinks always do that."<p>

<p>

"What?"<p>

<p>

"That! Ambush people."<p>

<p>

"Have you told Snookie you loved her any time in the past two years?"<p>

<p>

"Of course I have."<p>

<p>

"She says you haven't."<p>

<p>

"Goddamn gossip!" I cried, and threw the Chokecherry onto Boyce's desk. It
broke in two pieces. "When did she tell you that? You two have been talking?
What else did she say?"<p>

<p>

"Plenty."<p>

<br>


<font size=5>I</font>N Boyce's ziti the asparagus had given itself to the pasta like a submissive
lover. The food was so ambrosial that we didn't even need the spicy zin, though
we drank it anyway. My own baked ziti never came out nearly this good, and I
was the Italian one. In my present frame of mind I could take a thing like that
hard, as a comment on my general integrity.<p>

<p>

"Did you know that Janet has serious misgivings about us, Dante?" Boyce asked.
"About our relentless fascination with technological goods, the way machines
work, what's the latest thing." We were having dinner outside, at the round
redwood table, where I sat between Boyce and Janet, opposite the empty fourth
chair. "Something about it is fishy, she thinks."<p>

<p>

"I didn't know that," I said.<p>

<p>

"Yes, I may start studying you two," Janet said. "I may write a book on this
phenomenon."<p>

<p>

Janet had her own private practice full of wealthy clients. She wasn't jumping
through flaming tenure hoops under the stony gaze of some Mary Beth, and yet
she still had thoughts of writing books. What pluck!<p>

<p>

"Why do you know so much about computers?" she asked me. "Him I can understand.
But you're supposed to be a humanities guy."<p>

<p>

"Fear of death," I said. "Sexual terror."<p>

<p>

"Nice try."<p>

<p>

"Because he knew I'd need a new one someday," Boyce said, "and he wanted to
help me pick it out."<p>

<p>

"Good, Boyce," I said. "Right. But follow through. What kind of computer would
you like? You haven't told us."<p>

<p>

"A Revelation 2000."<p>

<p>

This magical product name buzzed past my ear with such an unreal twang that I
looked around to see if little Zippy had just gone by again. The Revelation
2000 was the first microcomputer with a holographic screen, 1,000-bit audio/
video, three billion instructions per second, and direct wireless uplink to
geosynchronous satellites. It was the sexiest hardware you could put on a desk.
And though I personally subscribed to the old chestnut about buying
computers -- get the most iron they'll let you charge on your card, and if you
can't use all that power, you're doing something wrong -- I couldn't believe
Boyce was talking about a Rev 2K. "Revelations cost a fortune," I said.<p>

<p>

"I've got one lined up for three thousand bucks."<p>

<p>

"Bull, Boyce! They're twenty times that."<p>

<p>

"My man has one for three."<p>

<p>

"What man?"<p>

<p>

"This guy Mickey. I've never met him. He's a friend of Brubaker's."<p>

<p>

"Oh, no, Boyce. No."<p>

<p>

"Honey," Janet said, "I don't think 'Brubaker' was the correct magic word."<p>

<p>

"You said you were never dealing with Brubaker again."<p>

<p>

"It's a <I>friend</I> of his, Dante. Plus, I'm a big boy now."<p>

<p>

"He's saying I'm being too protective," I said to Janet.<p>

<p>

"That seems to be it," she said.<p>

<p>

Brubaker was an avatar of free enterprise who'd been in bed at one time or
another with almost every breathing being doing business in the Valley. Like
countless others, Boyce had worked for the mythical Bru. Unlike most, he
remained on friendly terms with Brubaker after the experience, but then, Boyce
was friends with everybody. Brubaker had seen the high times, and now he was
researching the lows. He'd been charged with various white-collar crimes in
recent years, wriggling off every time except the last, when they popped him
for soliciting capital investment without a prospectus. He got a hefty fine and
sixty days of community service -- which he discharged by teaching street youths
to set up their own "S" corporations.<p>

<p>

"Stolen goods," I said to Boyce. "Hijacked tractor-trailer."<p>

<p>

"You know I wouldn't do that."<p>

<p>

"How does Brubaker meet these people?"<p>

<p>

"I don't ask."<p>

<p>

"That's the understanding you have?"<p>

<p>

"No, I don't ask because he'd tell me."<p>

<p>

"Since when is three thousand dollars cheap?" Janet said.<p>

<p>

"Last computer I'll ever buy, honey," Boyce told her. "Cross my heart."<p>

<p>

"Are you going to use it to change the world?"<p>

<p>

"You're reading my mind."<p>

<p>

"All right, then, you can have it," she said, sipping her zinfandel and staring
into the reddening California sky. "I think I'll call my book <I>Modern Man in
Search of a Dumpster for His Soul</I>."<p>

<p>

Boyce turned to me. "And you were upset about being called a monster."<p>

<br>

<font size=5>I</font> WAS halfway to the street when I realized that Boyce wasn't behind me. He was
standing on his Crayola-green lawn, under the lady's-slipper-colored dome of
California sky, staring at my cerulean vehicle parked at the curb in the
striated shadow of a mimosa tree. "Do I look like I can ride in a Chroma?" he
said. I was forgetting that Boyce, six foot four, couldn't even get into the
freeway bubble I drove. I joined him on the lawn leading to his car. The
sprinklers popped up and sprayed our legs like mechanical cats. "The downside
of homeownership," Boyce called out, as we dashed off his effervescing grass.<p>

<p>

"You finally get a pot to pee in, and it pees on you." We made it back to the
sidewalk and shook our ankles. "Still, I wouldn't mind. A little pot to pee in
with Snookie Lee. But I guess SoftBrain Technologies won't have a gig for me
now."<p>

<p>

"I guess not, cowboy. You wanted one?"<p>

<p>

"I was thinking maybe technical writer."<p>

<p>

"Impeccable sense of timing, Dante."<p>

<p>

His silver Kodak Image hulked in the transcendental evening light. The
automobile was so large it seemed designed to lure Japan into the quicksand
with us once and for all -- the two rivals going down in a cruise-controlled
death embrace. When we approached it, the driver's door slid open, but not
mine. "Look at that," I said. "It didn't do my side. A snoutful of microchips
and it can't even open the door."<p>

<p>

"You have to stand where it can see you, dude."<p>

<p>

I walked to the passenger side, and the door retracted with an overdesigned
hermetic suck. "My Chroma sees me no matter where I am," I said. When we were
gliding through the peaceful streets, pastel homes clicking by like Necco
wafers, I said, "So. Mickey."<p>

<p>

"Brubaker says the overall impression is of an alienated vet. But in fact
Mickey is not a vet. Not of any actual war."<p>

<p>

"He's in a private militia?"<p>

<p>

"No, just the opposite. Mickey wouldn't join any organized anything. He's a
loner. He's this guy who came out the other side of the Valley dream."<p>

<p>

"He went in the front?"<p>

<p>

"Wrote system code in the glory days, burned out on that, went independent,
specialized in lockout software. He's into hardware now."<p>

<p>

"Designing it?"<p>

<p>

"Testing it, more like."<p>

<p>

Offices and malls and taco stands swept by on El Camino. We arrived at the
outskirts of Palo Alto, where start-ups roiled in every dingy industrial park,
in the bedrooms of brick apartment buildings, at the whittled wooden tables of
the old hamburger bars. Nothing could kill the entrepreneurial spirit, not even
the nineties in California. Everybody had an angle, everybody had a scheme. It
was endless, and now Boyce was one of them. He parked in front of a run-down
hacienda with silver Quonset huts on either side. Night had nearly fallen. The
air was acrid with the resins of burning electronics.<p>

<p>

"You guys seen Mickey?" somebody asked when we got out of the car. A tall black
man in rags had stepped out of the bushes.<p>

<p>

"No, we haven't," Boyce said.<p>

<p>

The guy took a step back into the light, and I saw that his clothes weren't
rags. They were expensive designer things with all kinds of shapes and flaps
cut into them.<p>

<p>

"We just got here," Boyce said. "Where is he?"<p>

<p>

"Didn't I clearly imply that I do not know where Mickey is?" the guy said, and
went back into the shadows.<p>

<p>

Then a white guy dressed in rags approached us from the opposite direction.
"You guys seen Mickey?" he said.<p>

<p>

"Would you mind stepping into the light?" I said, leading him underneath the
lamp at the curb. This guy was really in rags, actual rags.<p>

<p>

Boyce said, "What's with all you cats asking if we've seen Mickey?"<p>

<p>

"All us cats?" the guy said.  "Do I know you guys?  Have I ever, like, 
<I>seen</I> you guys?"<p>

<p>

"I just told the other dude. No, we have not seen Mickey."<p>

<p>

"What other dude?"<p>

<p>

I pointed at the bushes. "Over there somewhere. Wearing real fancy clothes.
He's looking for Mickey too."<p>

<p>

"He didn't actually say he was looking for Mickey," Boyce said. "He wanted to
know if <I>we'd</I> seen Mickey. Just like you."<p>

<p>

"That's true," I said. "Maybe you guys don't want to see Mickey at all."<p>

<p>

"I see Mickey all the time," the guy said, and walked off into the darkness.<p>

<p>

A small Filipino woman answered the door when we rang the bell. She seemed
surprised to see us. "Isn't Mickey expecting us?" Boyce said.<p>

<p>

"You're different," the woman said, and led us into her dwelling, where
furniture and clothing and plastic media trash tumbled together
indistinguishably in every room. We wound up in a wood- paneled den where two
children played on shag carpeting in the blue glow of a sexual-hygiene program
on the big TV. They looked a lot like their mother -- for that was who she had to
be. The kids were no more interested in us than in the blurry sex on the tube.
I thought of my students, aliens whose human parents paid my bills, and I
understood them better now. This was where they'd grown up. The house was from
the sixties, when people put wet bars in their recreation rooms. On the dusty
surface of a side table lay two handguns and a rifle -- not toys, not dusty.<p>

<p>

Mrs. Mickey walked us along a breezeway to one of the Quonset huts we'd seen
from the street. At the entrance, midway along the metal pod's fuselage, she
left us staring inside from the threshold. The shape and corrugation made it
feel like an aircraft hangar -- one in which had taken place, for some reason,
the Battle of Silicon Valley. Mutilated corpses of computers from the past ten
years lay in heaps around the cylindrical room, most horribly crushed or burned
or melted. At a workbench in the midst of this wreckage, surrounded by banks of
test equipment, a large bearded man in sleeveless fatigues was blowing a heat
gun at a computer in a plain black box and laughing. Text and a picture were
bending like taffy on the screen. A high-pitched squeal was emerging from the
thing. An oscilloscope portrayed the computer's demise in ghostly green
wiggles -- lots of waves, lines with some waves, nothing but lines. Finally the
screen crackled violently and then went blank. Blue-black smoke twirled from
the computer's vents into an exhaust hood above the bench.<p>

<p>

"He's an <I>abuse tester</I>," I whispered to Boyce. "You didn't tell me that. He
kills computers for a living."<p>

<p>

"Don't say 'kills,'" Boyce said. "<I>Stresses</I>."<p>

<p>

"Piece of crap!" the man barked at the melting computer, and then he looked up
and saw us standing there. He stood very still, staring at us, breathing
deeply, with the heat gun still in his hand.<p>

<p>

"Mickey?" Boyce said. "Are you Mickey? Hi, I'm Boyce. You were expecting us,
right? Brubaker said we were coming?"<p>

<p>

The man said nothing. Boyce looked worried, and worry was not a Boycean trait.
It made me worried myself. But then, staring into this situation, I realized
something about Mickey. He had just completed a kill and he wouldn't want to
fight. He'd feel unthreatened and kingly. Unless overtly attacked, he'd be
docile. He might even let smaller creatures pick at the edges of his prey. I
pointed to the smoking prototype on his bench. "Did you drop it on the floor
yet? I hear that's the first thing you're supposed to do. Drop it on the
floor."<p>

<p>

These words revived his inner animal.  "You hear that 'cause that's what I 
do!  <I>I</I> developed the protocol!  <I>Me!</I>" He slapped himself on 
the chest.  "Damn right I dropped it on the floor.  I dropped it on the 
floor several times!" And then he laughed uproariously.<p>

<p>

We were all right. He was verbalizing. Brubaker had told Boyce to expect a
bearlike creature who communicated mainly by snuffling in his sinus passages,
scratching himself, and emitting inexplicable giggles or guffaws.<p>

<p>

Suddenly Mickey stopped laughing. "Brubaker told me one guy."<p>

<p>

"That's me. Boyce. I just brought my friend along. Dante."<p>

<p>

"<I>Dante?</I>" Mickey said, his face clouding over as he pronounced my name. He
stared across the hut at old Fillmore West posters taped to the rippling metal
walls. "The tomato family? Don't tell me this is the ketchup heir, the little
tomato-paste trust-fund boy."<p>

<p>

"Not <I>Del Monte</I>," Boyce said. "Dante. He's not from ketchup money."<p>

<p>

"They're all related," Mickey said.<p>

<p>

"The Del Montes maybe, but he's not a Del Monte."<p>

<p>

Mickey cackled again, but he put his heat gun down, and though he didn't
explicitly invite us in, he didn't not invite us either, so we picked our way
through the technological waste. "The Revelation brothers," Mickey said.<p>

<p>

"That's us," Boyce said.<p>

<p>

A color TV in Mickey's lair was tuned to a news story about the thousands of
people living at Moffett Air Field now that NASA's demise had left the old base
free to become a homeless shelter. It was an election year, and a local
politician came on to gas a few bites about the looting of taxpayer coffers.<p>

<p>

"Bring out the old rockets," Mickey said. "Ship 'em to Mars!"<p>

<p>

"What are you saying that for?" I said. "You have homeless friends yourself. We
saw a homeless guy right here in front of your house."<p>

<p>

Mickey peeped out a small window. "Where?"<p>

<p>

"Right out front, man. He was asking for you too. 'You guys seen Mickey?' he
said."<p>

<p>

"That's no homeless guy!"<p>

<p>

"He looked homeless," Boyce said.<p>

<p>

"They just dress up like that."<p>

<p>

Our deal seemed on the verge of going bad, so I said, "Hey, let's see this
great computer."<p>

<p>

"Hey, let's see this great computer," Mickey said.<p>

<p>

"Well, if you don't mind."<p>

<p>

He opened a door in an unpainted plasterboard wall and rolled the Revelation in
on a cart. It wasn't burned or smashed or even dented. It maybe had a few
scratches on it. He plugged it into the wall and flipped the switch. "Come on,
sport," he said to me. "Let's see you do your stuff."<p>

<BR>

<font size=5>I</font>'D never actually seen a 2000 in person before. Holographic software objects
floated in the space between the computer and me, one of them announcing the
machine's readiness for telephony in any form. I sat down and logged onto my
account, bracing myself for power and speed. Even so I wasn't ready. The thing
whomped me onto the Network like a jujitsu flip.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Hanlon's Razor:<br>

Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by 
stupidity.<p>

<p>

You have new mail.<p>

<p>

from: marybeth@media.sjcm.edu<br>

"Your position here"<p>

<p>

from: marybeth@media.sjcm.edu<br>

Re(1) "Your position here"<p>

<p>

from: marybeth@media.sjcm.edu<br>

Re(2) "Your position here"<p>

<p>

from: marybeth@media.sjcm.edu<br>

Re(3) "Your position here"<p>

<p>

from: marybeth@media.sjcm.edu<br>

Re(4) "Your position here"<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


<p>

"You got mail, dude," Mickey said.<p>

<p>

"I see that, Mickey."<p>

<p>

"Who's marybeth?"<p>

<p>

"My boss."<p>

<p>

"How come she's writing you so much? You two into something? You got something
going with the boss lady, Don?"<p>

<p>

"Dante, Mickey. Don Tay." The thought of having something going with Mary Beth
was so ludicrous I forgot what I was doing. I sat there like an idiot who
didn't know what a computer was for.<p>

<p>

"Don't know how to read mail?" Mickey said. "No problem on a Revelation. Just
tell it what you want it to do."<p>

<p>

"I don't want to read that mail right now. I'll read it some other time."<p>

<p>

"But then how are you gonna know how blazing the Revelation is at your daily
tasks? <I>Read the mail</I>," he barked at the box.<p>

<p>

My first letter from Mary Beth joined us in the room as though we were reading
the woman's mind. You couldn't describe the 2000 as "fast" -- reality and the
Revelation were basically indistinguishable. Everything just <I>was</I>, and in 3-D it
all seemed almost edible besides. It was an amazing hardware experience. The
message content was kind of a downer, though.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Date: Mon, 5 Apr 99 20:23 GMT<br>

From: Mary Beth Hinckley &lt;marybeth@media.sjcm.edu&gt;<br>

To: Dante Allegro Annunziata &lt;dante@media.sjcm.edu&gt;<br>

Subject: Your position here<p>

My dear Dante,<p>

I assume some awareness on your part, however dim, of your contract's impending
expiration, and of your ongoing evaluation for renewal in this department.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

<p>

"What's this 'my dear' crap?" Mickey said. <p>

<p>

"Scorn."<p>

<p>

"Is she like this in person?" Boyce asked.<p>

<p>

"No, she's more relaxed in the mail."<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
I -- all of us, actually -- have been reading your student evaluations. They make a
most striking collection of documents. Indeed, we've never seen anything quite
like it. The students are deliriously uncritical of you, Dante. It seems you
can do no wrong. Are you, perhaps, being uncritical of them? There is no
learning without criticism, mon cher. We're not here to have the children like
us. We're here to teach, to mold, to impart.<p>

More than being peculiar -- nay, unprecedented -- I'm afraid such student reaction
to a professor raises serious questions. We must talk.<p>

MBH<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


<p>

"You poor bastard," Boyce said. "Why didn't you share it with us? You didn't
have to bear it alone."<p>

<p>

"I've always told you I hated the place."<p>

<p>

"That's true, you have."<p>

<p>

"You put some major mojo on this chick," Mickey said. "She wants you, Don. She
wants you bad."<p>

<p>

"I don't think so, Mickey. For one thing, she's not a chick."<p>

<p>

"Listen to me, dude. I know. <I>Next</I>," he said, and Mary Beth's next letter
materialized in our midst, followed by the others in succession as Mickey said
"<I>Next</I>" again and again, each letter more aggrieved than its predecessor, until
finally her last message bodied forth from the screen, dated this afternoon.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Signor Annunziata:<p>

Your silence is rude and mystifying, but I'll say no more about it here.
Indeed, I'll say no more here at all, since this is the last mail you'll
receive from me.<p>

The formal hearing into your future will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 13 April,
at 9 AM, in the Provost's office. Feel free to join us, in the flesh or via
video, though the proceedings will be conducted in absentia in any event. If
you're feeling pressed for time, I expect a very brief session.<p>

What happened, Dante? You seemed so promising at first. And with that lovely
name. I hoped you'd join our little family. But not as the Prodigal Son.<p>

MBH<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>
<p>

"I like how they're doing it in absentia whether you're there or not," Boyce
said.<p>

<p>

"That captures it, doesn't it? But I'll hack on your Revelation till dawn,
shave and shower, drag myself in there, plead for my job. It's all I have. I'll
say I've been sick. I'll get some students to claim they don't like me."<p>

<p>

"<I>Reply</I>," Mickey said, causing an empty text-window to appear, at which he
recited an incantation that scrolled obediently up the screen as he spoke.
Mickey was one of those holdovers from the early days of computers, people who
type everything with Caps Lock on, and he must have trained the Revelation to
do the same whenever it heard his voice.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
STUCK UP BITCH<p>

DON'T MESS WITH DONNY<p>

HE COULD OF BEEN YOURS<p>

BUT YOU WERE HOTTY<p>

NOW SUFFER<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

<p>

"Hotty?" Boyce said.<p>

<p>

"Yeah. Stuck up. Superior. <I>Hotty</I>."<p>

<p>

"Oh. I see."<p>

<p>

"That's great, Mickey," I said. "Thank you for coming to my defense. I'm
touched, really I am. Now erase it, please."<p>

<p>

"<I>Send</I>," he said, and his voodoo poem-curse to Mary Beth vanished from the
screen, sucked away by the Network's solar wind.<p>

<p>

Sometimes you don't know how close you are to flaming out till it happens, and
this was the case with me. I sat down on a deformed plastic chair in this
computer criminal's Quonset hut, and I began to cry. Not big out-and-out
boohooing, but there's crying and there's not crying, and I was crying.<p>

<p>

"What's he doing?" Mickey asked Boyce, backing away from me.<p>

<p>

"He seems to be crying," Boyce said. "You okay, pal?"<p>

<p>

"Well, make him stop," Mickey said.<p>

<p>

"How am I gonna do that? You just got him fired from his job, man."<p>

<p>

"She was messing with his mind. What does he wanna work there for anyway?"<p>

<p>

"What does anybody want to work anywhere for, Mickey? Plus, things aren't going
real well with his wife right now."<p>

<p>

"What's the problem?"<p>

<p>

"She left."<p>

<p>

My weeping did become out-and-out boohooing at this point.<p>

<p>

"He's a total loss, isn't he?" Mickey said, gazing down at me. "But he likes
computers, right? Computers make him happy, it seems like."<p>

<p>

"They always do seem to cheer him up," Boyce said.<p>

<p>

Mickey went into his secret room and wheeled out another cart.<p>

<p>

"What's that?" I said, sniffling. "That looks like another Revelation."<p>

<p>

"I was gonna keep it for parts, but you seem so sad, dude. I don't like people
feeling sad. It makes me feel weird. You want it?"<p>

<p>

"How much?"<p>

<p>

"Same as for him."<p>

<p>

"Three thousand bucks? Where are you getting these?"<p>

<p>

"Don't ask questions like that, Don. You want it, I take cash. You don't want
it, you never saw it."<p>

<p>

I had thirty-five hundred bucks in my savings account, and after that it was
the graveyard shift at Drugs 'n' Such. "I'll take it." I turned to Boyce. "Get
me to a bank machine."<p>

<p>

Mickey put his huge, heavy arm on my shoulder. "Then you're feelin' better
about things?"<p>

<p>

"Yeah, I am, Mickey, thanks. Can I ask you a question, though? I'm just
curious. What's in the other Quonset hut? The one on the other side of the
house?"<p>

<p>

"What's in it? My in-laws. You want one of them, too? We could work something
out. Can't do better than a nice Filipino girl."<p>
<br>

<font size=5>W</font>E drove out onto the strip to look for an ATM. As the owner of a Revelation
2000, I could network with Boyce's machine and be part of his new venture, the
construction of humanity's electronic mind. He offered me a job. I accepted.
Then he revealed the identity of his major investor. I worked for Brubaker
now.<p>

<p>

Alongside a taco stand we found a riotously bright bank machine, its colored
panels burning like gas in the California night. It sucked my card and started
beeping at me.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
<center>
Greetings, valued customer Dante Allegro Annunziata!<p>

You have new Network mail! Read it now at your Mitsubishi ATM!<p>

(Small service charge applies.)<p>

(Reminder: your credit account is past due.)<p>
</center>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>


<p>

I pushed the button and they dropped me right into my mail, no list of letters
received, no fortune cookie, no nothing. They literally didn't give me the time
of day. What did I expect? It was a bank. I had only one new letter anyway,
from Snookie Lee.<p>

<p>


<BLOCKQUOTE>
<tt>
Date: Tue, 13 Apr 99 02:03 GMT<br>

From: Snookie Lee Ludlow &lt;snooks@women.tex.edu&gt;<br>

To: Dante Allegro Annunziata &lt;dante@media.sjcm.edu&gt;<br>

Subject: I did a wild thing<p>

Dante,<p>

I went kind of crazy. I did a wild thing.<p>

They asked me their parrot questions, like I knew they would. No big surprise.
But when I actually heard it happen, something inside me plopped. I refused to
answer. I refused to say anything at all. I just sat there doing a Bartleby in
my oral exams. It was so weird. I couldn't believe it. They couldn't believe it
either. Surely you're going to say something, they said. I'd prefer not to, I
said. This can't be happening, said my adviser. It's happening, I said. I can't
believe you're not finishing this degree, she said. I'd prefer not to, I
said.<p>

There's a blank place after that. Somebody drove me home. I called Janet. She's
picking me up at the airport in San Jose. I'm flying in at 10 PM. I sold my Le
Car about a month ago. I guess I never told you that. Got five hundred bucks
for it. We have to talk. This does not mean I'm staying. I'm on my way home to
Alabama. Well, the long way. If I did stay, it would be because I had seen a
Goddamn miracle walking around in your pants, I'll tell you that.<p>

Oil noose well, you said. Oil well indeed. I slipped out. But how did you know
that? You are one spooky cat.<p>

Snooks<p>

P.S. Lie low, keen soul, you said. Slow Lee due in. How did you *know* that?
I've been having some bourbon. It reminds me of my lost home in the South. Been
looking at your pictures too. You were always so cute, you Italian thing.<p>

P.P.S. That doesn't necessarily mean anything.<p>
</tt>
</BLOCKQUOTE>

<p>

"This is incredible," Boyce said. He'd been reading over my shoulder. "She
wouldn't speak in her oral exams? She sat there in silence?"<p>

<p>

"Yes, and what a woman she is!" I exclaimed, dropping into savings for my three
thousand bucks, full of hope and dreams beyond reckoning, even by a Revelation
2000. A gigantic flashing jet was crossing the sky, coming in for a landing at
San Jose. I checked my watch. It was tomorrow morning, Greenwich Mean Time.
"Snookie's on that plane!" I cried, and with my life's liquid assets wadded up
in my hand, I dashed for Boyce's Kodak Image and the golden future of knowledge
and love.<p>

</blockquote>

<br>
<br>

<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1993 by Ralph Lombreglia.  All rights
reserved.<br>
 Originally published in <i>The Atlantic Monthly</i>, December 1994.<br>
<hr>

<P>
<center>
<A HREF="../../../images/footer.map"> <IMG SRC="../../../images/footer.gif" 
ISMAP WIDTH=468 HEIGHT=25 BORDER=0></A>  <br>

<font size=2><a href="../../../home.htm">Home</a> | <a
href="http://www.theatlantic.com/atlantic/p&r/p&rhelp.htm">Post &
Riposte</a> | <a 
href="../../../issues/current/contents.htm">The Magazine</a> | <a 
href="../../../atlweb/ootoc.htm">Atlantic Unbound</a> |
<a href="../../../xchg/xchgindx.htm">The Exchange</a> | 
<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">Search</a></center>
</font>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-5</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B038-315</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/wilson.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117192904 text/html 78136
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:28:04 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:11:55 GMT
Content-length: 77930
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Thinking About Crime 

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>September 1983</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			Thinking About Crime

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by James Q. Wilson</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



							<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

 



<CENTER>



	<i><font size=4>The debate over deterrence</i></font><p>



</CENTER>

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

<blockquote>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>HE average citizen hardly needs to be persuaded that crimes will be 

committed more frequently if, other things being equal, crime becomes more 

profitable than other ways of spending one's time. Accordingly, the 

average citizen thinks it obvious that one major reason why crime has 

increased is that people have discovered they can get away with it. By the 

same token, a good way to reduce crime is to make its consequences to the 

would-be offender more costly (by making penalties swifter, more certain, 

or more severe), or to make alternatives to crime more attractive (by 

increasing the availability and pay of legitimate jobs), or both.<P>

These citizens may be surprised to learn that social scientists who study 

crime are deeply divided over the correctness of such views. While some 

scholars, especially economists, believe that the decision to become a 

criminal can be explained in much the same way as we explain the decision 

to become a carpenter or to buy a car, other scholars, especially 

sociologists, contend that the popular view is wrong--crime rates do not 

go up because would-be criminals have little fear of arrest, and will not 

come down just because society decides to get tough on criminals.<P>

This debate over the way the costs and benefits of crime affect crime 

rates is usually called a debate over deterrence--a debate, that is, over 

the efficacy (and perhaps even the propriety) of trying to prevent crime 

by making would-be offenders fearful of punishment. But the theory of 

human nature that supports the idea of deterrence--the theory that people 

respond to the penalties associated with crime--also assumes that people 

will take jobs in preference to crime if the jobs are more attractive. In 

both cases, we are saying that would-be offenders are rational and that 

they respond to their perception of the costs and benefits attached to 

alternative courses of action. When we use the word "deterrence," we are 

calling attention to only the cost side of the equation. No word in common 

scientific usage calls attention to the benefit side of the equation, 

though perhaps "inducement" might serve.<P>

The reason scholars disagree about deterrence is that the consequences of 

committing a crime, unlike the consequences of shopping around for the 

best price on a given automobile, are complicated by delay, uncertainty, 

and ignorance. In addition, some scholars contend that many crimes are 

committed by persons who are so impulsive, irrational, or abnormal that 

even if delay, uncertainty, or ignorance were not attached to the 

consequences of criminality, we would still have a lot of crime.<P>

Imagine a young man walking down the street at night with nothing on his 

mind but a desire for good times and high living. Suddenly he sees a 

little old lady standing alone on a dark corner, stuffing the proceeds of 

her recently cashed Social Security check into her purse. Nobody else is 

in view. If the young man steals the purse, he gets the money immediately. 

The costs of taking it are uncertain--the odds are at least ten to one 

that the police will not catch a robber, and even if he is caught, the 

odds are very good that he will not go to prison, unless he has a long 

record. On the average, no more than three felonies out of a hundred 

result in the imprisonment of the offender. In addition, whatever penalty 

may come his way will come only after a long delay--in some jurisdictions, 

a year or more might be needed to complete the court disposition of the 

offender, assuming he is caught in the first place. Moreover, this young 

man might, in his ignorance of how the world works, think the odds against 

being caught are even greater than they are, or that delays in the court 

proceedings might result in a reduction or avoidance of punishment.<P>

Compounding the problem of delay and uncertainty is the fact that society 

cannot feasibly increase by more than a modest amount the likelihood of 

arrest, and though it can to some degree increase the probability and 

severity of prison sentences for those who are caught, it cannot do so 

drastically, by, for example, summarily executing all convicted robbers, 

or even by sentencing all robbers to twenty-year prison terms. Some 

scholars note a further complication: the young man may be incapable of 

assessing the risks of crime. How, they ask, is he to know his chances of 

being caught and punished? And even if he does know, perhaps he is driven 

by uncontrollable impulses to snatch purses whatever the risks.<P>

As if all this were not bad enough, the principal method by which scholars 

have attempted to measure the effect of deterrence on crime has involved 

using data about aggregates of people (entire cities, counties states, and 

even nations) rather than about individuals. In a typical study, the rate 

at which, say, robbery is committed in each state is "explained" by means 

of a statistical procedure in which the analyst takes into account both 

the socio-economic features of each state that might affect the supply of 

robbers (for example, the percentage of persons with low incomes, the 

unemployment rate, the population density of the big cities, the 

proportion of the population made up of young males) and the operation of 

the criminal-justice system of each state as it attempts to cope with 

robbery (for example, the probability of being caught and imprisoned for a 

given robbery, and the length of the average prison term for robbery).<P>

Isaac Ehrlich, an economist, produced the best-known of such analyses, 

using data on crime in the United States in 1940, 1950, and 1960. He 

found, after controlling for such things as the income level and the age 

distribution of the population, that the higher the probability of 

imprisonment for those convicted of robbery, the lower the robbery rate. 

At the same time, he did not find that the severity of punishment (the 

average time served in prison for robbery) had, independent of its 

certainty, an effect on robbery rates in two of the three time periods 

(1940 and 1960).<P>

But some grave problems are associated with using aggregate data of this 

sort in studies of the effect of sanctions on crime rates. One is that 

many of the most important factors are not known with any accuracy. For 

example, we are dependent on police reports for our measure of the robbery 

rate, and these undoubtedly vary in accuracy from place to place. If all 

police departments were inaccurate to the same degree, this would not be 

important; unfortunately, some departments are probably much less accurate 

than others, and this variable error can introduce a serious bias into the 

statistical estimates of the effect of the criminal-justice system.<P>

Even if we manage to overcome this problem, a further difficulty lies in 

wait. States in which the probability of going to prison for robbery is 

low are also states that have high rates of robbery (other things being 

equal). This fact can be interpreted in at least two ways. It can mean 

that the higher robbery rates are the results of the lower imprisonment 

rates (and would thus be evidence that deterrence works), but it might 

also mean that the lower imprisonment rates are caused by the higher 

robbery rates. To see how the latter might be true, imagine a state that 

is experiencing, for some reason, a rapidly rising robbery rate. It 

arrests, convicts, and imprisons more and more robbers as more and more 

robberies are committed, but it cannot quite keep up. The robberies are 

increasing so fast that they swamp the criminal-justice system; 

prosecutors and judges respond by letting more robbers off without a 

prison sentence, or perhaps even without a trial, in order to keep the 

system from becoming hopelessly clogged. As a result, the proportion of 

arrested robbers who go to prison goes down while the robbery rate goes 

up. In this case, we ought to conclude not that prison deters robbers but 

that high robbery rates "deter" prosecutors and judges.<P>

The best analysis of these problems in statistical studies of deterrence 

is to be found in a 1978 report of the Panel on Research on Deterrent and 

Incapacitative Effects, which was set up by the National Research Council 

(an arm of the National Academy of Sciences). That panel, chaired by 

Alfred Blumstein, of Carnegie-Mellon University, concluded that the 

available statistical evidence (as of 1978) did not warrant any strong 

conclusions about the extent to which differences among states or cities 

in the probability of punishment might alter deterrent effect. The panel 

(of which I was a member) noted that "the evidence certainly favors a 

proposition supporting deterrence more than it favors one asserting that 

deterrence is absent," but urged "scientific caution" in interpreting this 

evidence.<P>

Other criticisms of deterrence research, generally along the same lines as 

those of the panel, have led some commentators to declare that "deterrence 

doesn't work," and that we may now get on with the task of investing in 

those programs, such as job-creation and income maintenance, that will 

have an effect on crime. Such a conclusion is, to put it mildly, 

premature.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>O</font>NE way to compensate for errors in official statistics relating to crime 

rates is to consider other measures of crime, in particular reports 

gathered by Bureau of the Census interviewers from citizens who have been 

victims of crime. While these victim surveys have problems of their own 

(such as the forgetfulness of citizens), they are not the same problems as 

those that affect police reports of crime. Thus, if we obtain essentially 

the same findings about the effect of sanctions on crime from studies that 

use victim data as we do from studies that use police data, our confidence 

in these findings is strengthened. Studies of this sort have been done by 

Itzhak Goldberg, at Stanford, and by Barbara Boland and myself, and the 

results are quite consistent with those from research based on police 

reports. As sanctions become more likely, both sets of data suggest, crime 

becomes less common.<P>

It is possible, as some critics of deterrence say, that rising crime rates 

swamp the criminal-justice system, so that a negative statistical 

association between, say, rates of theft and the chances of going to 

prison for theft may mean not that a decline in imprisonment is causing 

theft to increase but rather that a rise in theft is causing imprisonment 

to become less likely. This might occur particularly with respect to less 

serious crimes, such as shoplifting or petty larceny; indeed, the 

proportion of prisoners who are shoplifters or petty thieves has gone down 

over the past two decades. But it is hard to imagine that the 

criminal-justice system would respond to an increase in murder or armed 

robbery by letting some murderers or armed robbers off with no punishment. 

Convicted murderers are as likely to go to prison today as they were 

twenty years ago. Moreover, the deterrent effect of prison on serious 

crimes like murder and robbery was apparently as great in 1940 or 1950, 

when these crimes were much less common, as it is today, suggesting that 

swamping has not occurred.<P>

Still more support for the proposition that variations in sanctions affect 

crime can be found in the very best studies of deterrence--those that 

manage to avoid the statistical errors described above. In 1977, Alfred 

Blumstein and Daniel Nagin published a study of the relationship between 

draft evasion and the penalties imposed for draft evasion in each of the 

states. After controlling for the socio-economic characteristics of the 

states, they found that the higher the probability of conviction for draft 

evasion, the lower the evasion rates. This is an especially strong 

finding, because the study is largely immune to the problems associated 

with other analyses of deterrence. Draft evasion is more accurately 

measured than street crimes, and draft-evasion cases could not have 

swamped the federal courts in which they were tried, in part because such 

cases made up only a small fraction (about 7 percent) of the workload of 

these courts, and in part because federal authorities had instructed the 

prosecutors to give high priority to these cases. For all these reasons, 

Blumstein and Nagin felt they could safely conclude that draft evasion is 

deterrable.<P>

White-collar crime can also be deterred. In the late 1970s, Michael Block, 

Fred Nold, and J. G. Sidak, then at Stanford, investigated the effect of 

enforcing the antitrust laws on the price of bread in the bakery business. 

When the government filed a price-fixing complaint against colluding 

bakery firms, and when those firms also faced the possibility of private 

suits claiming treble damages for this price-fixing, the collusion ended 

and the price of bread fell.<P>

Another way of testing whether deterrence works is to look not at 

differences among states or firms at one point in time but at changes in 

the nation as a whole over a long period of time. Historical data on the 

criminal-justice system in America are so spotty that such research is 

difficult to do here, but it is not at all difficult in England, where the 

data are excellent. Kenneth I. Wolpin, of Yale, analyzed changes in crime 

rates and in various parts of the criminal-justice system (the chances of 

being arrested, convicted and punished) for the period 1894 to 1967, and 

concluded that changes in the probability of being punished seemed to 

cause changes in the crime rate. He offered reasons for believing that 

this causal connection could not be explained away by the argument that 

the criminal-justice system was being swamped.<P>

Given what we are trying to measure--changes in the behavior of a small 

number of hard-to-observe persons who are responding to delayed and 

uncertain penalties--we will never be entirely sure that our statistical 

manipulations have proved that deterrence works. What is impressive is 

that so many (but not all) studies using such different methods come to 

similar conclusions. More such evidence can be found in studies of the 

death penalty. Though the evidence as to whether capital punishment deters 

crime is quite ambiguous, most of the studies find that the chances of 

being imprisoned for murder do seem to affect the murder rate. Even after 

wading through all this, the skeptical reader may remain unconvinced. 

Considering the difficulties of any aggregate statistical analysis, that 

is understandable. But, as we shall shortly see, the evidence from certain 

social experiments reinforces the statistical studies.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>W</font>HENEVER we try to discover a relationship between hard-to-measure factors 

that operate deep inside a complex social structure, we are well advised 

not to rely on any single method of analysis, and we are particularly well 

advised not to rely on statistical studies using aggregate data. We should 

attack the problem from a number of angles, using different kinds of data 

and various methodologies. Above all, we should look at what happens to 

individuals (rather than to cities or states) and at what happens when a 

new program is tried.<P>

Ideally, we would like to know how the probability or severity of a 

possible punishment will affect the behavior of persons who might commit a 

serious crime. Such persons probably constitute only a small fraction of 

the total population, but they are the important fraction. Most of us 

would not commit a serious crime because of the bite of conscience, 

reinforced by the fear of embarrassment should our misconduct be detected. 

A few of us may commit serious crimes with only small regard to the risks, 

unless those risks can be made great and immediate. What we would like to 

know is how changes in the prospective costs of crime, and in the 

prospective benefits of pursuing legitimate alternatives to crime, affect 

the behavior of those individuals who are "at risk"--that is, persons who 

lack strong, internalized inhibitions against misconduct, who value highly 

the excitement of breaking the law, who have a weak stake in conformity, 

who are willing to take greater chances than the rest of us, and who 

greatly value quick access to ready cash. Such persons tend, 

disproportionately, to be young males. As Philip J. Cook, at Duke 

University, has argued, would-be offenders don't have to be entirely 

rational or fully informed for the criminal-justice system (or the 

legitimate labor market) to have an effect on them. They need only attach 

some value to the consequences of their actions. We already know they 

value one consequence--the money or pleasure produced by crime. There is 

no reason to believe they are indifferent to all other consequences, 

including the risks of being caught.<P>

Most of us are probably not very well informed about the true costs of 

crime: being law-abiding, we probably imagine that the chances of being 

caught are higher than in fact they are, and that the severity of the 

sentence (measured in years in prison) is greater than it really is. But 

most of us depend for our information on newspaper stories, on detective 

programs on television, and on our own deep fear of being exposed as a 

disreputable person. Persons at risk--young men hanging around on street 

corners, and thieves who associate with other thieves--tend to depend for 

their information on the accounts of other young men or other thieves who 

have had a run-in with the police or the courts and who therefore can 

supply a crudely accurate estimate of the current risks of arrest, 

prosecution, and sentencing.<P>

The behavior of these persons, thus informed, is what we wish to observe. 

Only a few careful efforts have been made to measure the deterrent effect 

of the sanctions of the criminal-justice system on individuals, as opposed 

to cities or states. One such effort was carried out in Cook County, 

Illinois, and aimed at the young offender. Charles A. Murray and Louis A. 

Cox, Jr., in their book, Beyond Probation, measured the number of arrests 

per month of 317 Chicago boys who had been incarcerated for the first time 

by the Illinois Department of Corrections. Though young (their average age 

was sixteen), they were scarcely novices at crime; they had been arrested 

an average of thirteen times each before receiving their first prison 

sentences. Nor were their offenses trivial: as a group, they had been 

charged with fourteen homicides, twenty-three rapes, more than 300 

assaults and a like number of auto thefts, nearly 200 armed robberies, and 

more than 700 burglaries. The patience of the court exhausted, these 

youthful offenders were eventually sent off to a correctional institution, 

where they served an average sentence of ten months. Murray and Cox 

followed them for (on the average) seventeen months after their release. 

During this period, the frequency with which they were arrested (i.e., 

arrests per month per 100 boys) declined by about two thirds. To be exact, 

the members of this group of hard-core delinquents were arrested an 

average of 6.3 times each during the year before being sent away but only 

2.9 times each during the seventeen months on the street after release.<P>

The Murray and Cox study, one of the few of its kind, adds some support to 

the deterrence theory. But it, like others, focuses on persons who have 

already committed crimes; we remain uncertain about the effect of changes 

in the criminal-justice system on those who have not yet committed any 

crime. To study behavior that does not occur is all but impossible, though 

we may ask, as some scholars have, various persons-

often students--whether they would commit or have committed a crime when 

they perceived the penalties to be of a given severity and a given 

probability. One such study was done among students at an eastern college, 

another among high school students in Arizona, and a third among adult 

Americans generally. The authors of all three studies found that the 

persons who believed they were likely to be punished for a particular 

criminal act were less likely to report (anonymously) having committed the 

act than were persons who thought they probably wouldn't be punished. The 

studies were broadly consistent with the view that deterrence works, but 

all are difficult to interpret. No one can be confident that the number of 

offenses the persons reported bears any relationship to the number they 

actually committed. More important, the studies raise the possibility that 

what actually deters these persons (very few of whom commit any serious 

acts with any frequency) is not what they guess to be the chances of being 

caught but the moral opprobrium with which such acts are viewed. For most 

people in most circumstances, the moral quality of their actions, and the 

internalized inhibitions against misconduct arising out of that moral 

code, are probably the major deterrents to crime. Interviewing people may 

highlight that fact, but it cannot tell us what happens at the margin, 

when society alters the certainty or severity of punishment for a given 

offense. And for purposes of public policy, that is exactly what we want 

to know. The best way to find out is to conduct an experiment.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>M</font>OST experiments in deterrence have involved changes in police behavior 

rather than changes in the behavior of judges and prosecutors. The results 

of those changes seem to indicate that the more focused and aggressive the 

police effort, the greater the chance it will make a difference. Changes 

in the level of routine preventive patrol in marked cars seemed to make 

little difference in crime rates in Kansas City, but changes in the number 

of officers riding New York subway cars and changes in the aggressiveness 

with which San Diego policemen stopped and interrogated persons on the 

streets did seem to make a difference. Comparable results come from a 

study of drunk driving in Great Britain, where the police began to use a 

breathalyzer to catch inebriated motorists, in hopes of reducing traffic 

accidents, especially fatal ones. A careful study by H. Laurence Ross, a 

sociologist, clearly indicates that these hopes were borne out: "the Road 

Safety Act caused a reduction in casualties" by as much as two thirds 

during weekend evenings, when drunk driving is likely to be most common. 

Unhappily, the police did not like to enforce this law, which could lead 

to the mandatory revocation of the driving license of a motorist whose 

blood alcohol level exceeded .08 percent. In time, the chief constable of 

the county of Cheshire made a highly publicized effort to get the police 

to administer breathalyzer tests to every driver stopped for a moving 

violation or because of a traffic accident, and once again accidents 

declined.<P>

Perhaps the most dramatic evidence of the operation of deterrence-

dramatic because it involved a true experiment on individuals engaging in 

what some believe is a wholly emotional crime--comes from an effort in 

Minneapolis to find out how the police can best handle incidents of spouse 

assault. The conventional wisdom had been that if one or both parties to 

such an assault were handled by the officer informally--by mediation or 

referral to a social-work agency--the parties would be better off than if 

the assaulter were arrested. And the police themselves often preferred not 

to make an arrest, because it took time and effort and often led to no 

prosecution when the victim refused to press charges. With the advice of 

the Police Foundation, a group of Minneapolis officers began handling 

their misdemeanor spouse-assault cases by randomly assigning the assaulter 

to one of three dispositions: arresting him, counseling him, or sending 

him out of the house to cool off. Over 200 cases were treated in this 

experimental fashion and followed up for six months. The assaulters who 

were arrested were less likely to be reported to the police for a 

subsequent assault than were those advised and much less likely than those 

sent out of the house. And this was true even though, in the vast majority 

of cases, the arrested person spent no more than a week in jail.<P>

A tougher and, for policy purposes, more useful test of deterrence would 

be to alter the sentence a person gets without altering police conduct. We 

have surprisingly few careful studies of the results of doing that, even 

though it is regularly done. Many states have passed mandatory minimum 

sentences for certain offenses, and some have tried to eliminate plea 

bargaining, or at least to ensure that serious offenders cannot have the 

charges against them reduced simply in order to induce a guilty plea. 

Unfortunately, most of these changes were made under circumstances that 

rendered any serious evaluation of their effect difficult, if not 

impossible.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>T</font>WO well-known changes in sentencing practices are the so-called 

Rockefeller drug laws in New York and the Bartley-Fox gun law in 

Massachusetts. In 1973, New York State revised its criminal statutes 

relating to drug trafficking in an attempt to make more severe and more 

certain the penalties for the sale and possession of heroin (the law 

affecting other drugs was changed as well, but the focus of the effort-

and the most severe penalties--were reserved for heroin). The major 

pushers--those who sold an ounce or more of heroin--would be liable for a 

minimum prison term of fifteen years and the possibility of life 

imprisonment. But the law had some loopholes. Someone who had sold an 

ounce could plea bargain the charges against him down, but no lower than 

to a charge that would entail a mandatory one-year minimum prison 

sentence. Police informants could get probation instead of prison, and 

persons under the age of sixteen were exempt from the mandatory sentences. 

A provision that was made part of some amendments passed in 1975 exempted 

from the law persons aged sixteen to eighteen. A group was formed to 

evaluate the effect of this law. The authors of its report, issued in 

1977, found no evidence that the law had reduced the availability of 

heroin on the streets of New York City or reduced the kinds of property 

crime often committed by drug users. Of course it is almost impossible to 

measure directly the amount of an illegal drug in circulation, or to 

observe the illicit transactions between dealers and users, but a good 

deal of circumstantial evidence, gathered by the study group, suggests 

that no large changes occurred. The number of deaths from narcotics 

overdoses did not change markedly, nor did admissions to drug

treatment programs or the price and purity of heroin available for sale on 

the street (as inferred from buys of heroin made by undercover narcotics 

agents).<P>

The explanation for this disappointing experience, in the opinion of the 

study group, was that difficulties in administering the law weakened its 

deterrent power, with the result that most offenders and would-be 

offenders did not experience any significantly higher risk of apprehension 

and punishment. There was no increase in the number of arrests, and a 

slight decline in the proportion of arrests leading to indictments as well 

as in the proportion of indictments resulting in conviction. Offsetting 

this was a higher probability that a person convicted would go to prison. 

The net effect was that the probability of imprisonment for arrested drug 

dealers did not change as a result of the law--it was about one 

imprisonment per nine arrests both before and after passage of the law. On 

the other hand, the sentences received by those who did go to prison were 

more severe. Before the law was passed, only 3 percent of persons 

imprisoned for selling an ounce or more of heroin received a sentence of 

three years or more. After the law went into effect, 22 percent received 

such sentences. Perhaps because sentences became more severe, more accused 

persons demanded trials instead of pleading guilty; as a result the time 

needed to dispose of the average drug case nearly doubled.<P>

Does the experience under the Rockefeller law disprove the claim that 

deterrence works? The answer is no, but that is chiefly because deterrence 

theory wasn't satisfactorily tested. If "deterrence" means changing 

behavior by increasing either the certainty or the swiftness of 

punishment, then the Rockefeller law, as it was administered, could not 

have deterred behavior because it made no change in the certainty of 

punishment and actually reduced its swiftness. If on the other hand, 

"deterrence" means changing behavior by increasing the severity of 

punishment, then deterrence did not work in this case. What we mainly want 

to know, however is whether heroin trafficking could have been reduced if 

the penalties associated with it had been imposed more quickly and in a 

higher proportion of cases.<P>

Severity may prove to be the enemy of certainty and speed. As penalties 

get tougher, defendants and their lawyers have a greater incentive to slow 

down the process, and those judges who, for private reasons, resist heavy 

sentences for drug dealing may use their discretionary powers to decline 

indictment, accept plea bargains, grant continuances, and modify penalties 

in ways that reduce the certainty and the celerity of punishment. The 

group that evaluated the Rockefeller law suggested that reducing severity 

in favor of certainty might create the only real possibility for testing 

the deterrent effect of changes in sentences.<P>

The Bartley-Fox gun law in Massachusetts was administered and evaluated in 

ways that avoided some of the problems of the Rockefeller drug laws. In 

1974, the Massachusetts legislature amended the law that had long required 

a license for a person carrying a handgun, by stipulating that a violation 

of this law would entail a mandatory penalty of one year in prison, which 

sentence could not be reduced by probation or parole or by judicial 

finagling. When the law went into effect, in April of 1975, various 

efforts were made to evaluate both the compliance of the criminal-justice 

system with it and the law's impact on crimes involving handguns. James A. 

Beha, II, then at the Harvard Law School, traced the application of the 

law for eighteen months, and concluded that, despite widespread 

predictions to the contrary, the police, prosecutors, and judges were not 

evading the law. As in New York, more persons asked for trials, and delays 

in disposition apparently increased, but in Massachusetts, by contrast 

with the experience in New York, the probability of punishment increased 

for those arrested. Beha estimated in 1977 (at a time when not all the 

early arrests had yet worked their way through the system) that prison 

sentences were being imposed five times more frequently on persons 

arrested for illegally carrying firearms than had been true before the law 

was passed. Owing to some combination of the heavy publicity given to the 

Bartley-Fox law and the real increase in the risk of imprisonment facing 

persons arrested while carrying a firearm without a license, the casual 

carrying of firearms seems to have decreased. This was the view expressed 

to interviewers by participants in the system, including persons being 

held in jail, and it was buttressed by a sharp drop in the proportion of 

drug dealers arrested by the Boston police who, at the time of their 

arrest, were found to be carrying firearms.<P>

Three studies were made of the impact of the Bartley-Fox law on serious 

crime. The authors of those studies used slightly different methods, but 

came in general to the same conclusion--namely, that a measurable decline 

had occurred in some crimes that involve the casual use of firearms. 

Moreover, the proportion of crimes in which guns were used did not go down 

in other large cities during this time. In sum, the Bartley-Fox law seems, 

at least during the years in which its effect was studied, to have 

increased the risk associated with carrying a gun, to have reduced the 

frequency with which guns were casually carried, and thereby to have 

reduced the rate at which certain gun-related crimes were committed.<P>

An effort to achieve the same results in Michigan did not work out as 

well, in large measure because the judges there--and in particular the 

judges in Wayne County, which includes Detroit--did not apply the law as 

expected. The Michigan Felony Firearm Statute, which went into effect in 

1977, required the imposition of a two-year prison sentence for possessing 

a firearm while committing a felony, and the two-year firearm sentence was 

to be added on to whatever sentence was imposed for the other felony. But 

no real change occurred in either the certainty or the severity of 

sentences issued to gun-carrying felons. Many judges would reduce the 

sentence given for the original felony (say, assault or robbery) in order 

to compensate for the add-on. In other cases, the judge would dismiss the 

gun count. Given this evasion, it is not surprising that the law had 

little effect on the rate at which gun-related crimes were committed.<P>

Several states have recently altered the legal minimum drinking age; 

because of the effect of teenage drinking on highway fatalities, these 

changes have been closely studied. Between 1970 and 1973, twenty-four 

states lowered their legal drinking ages. Shortly thereafter, Allan F. 

Williams and his associates at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety 

examined the effect of these reductions on highway accidents, and 

concluded that the changes in the laws had contributed to an increase in 

fatal motor-vehicle accidents. Reacting to the implications of such 

findings at least fourteen states, beginning in 1976, raised their minimum 

drinking ages from eighteen or nineteen to twenty or twenty-one. Williams 

and his colleagues studied these changes in nine states and concluded that 

when young persons could not legally buy alcoholic beverages, fewer fatal 

auto accidents occurred at night (when most drink

related accidents take place). Alexander C. Wagenaar, at the University of 

Michigan, looked closely at the Michigan experience, and came to the same 

conclusion. When the legal drinking age there was lowered to eighteen, the 

number of persons aged eighteen to twenty who were involved in accidents 

and reportedly had been drinking began to rise; when the drinking age was 

raised to twenty-one, the number of such persons in crashes began to fall. 

Comparable conclusions were reached in a study of the consequences of 

altering the legal drinking age in Maine.<P>

In sum, the evidence from these experiences is that changes in the 

probability of being punished can lead to changes in behavior, though this 

may not happen when the new laws exist on paper and not in practice, or 

when the benefits to be had from violating the law are so great as to make 

would-be perpetrators indifferent to the slight alteration in the risks 

facing them. For example, when the prospective gains from heroin 

trafficking or obtaining (and supplying) illegal abortions are very large, 

these gains can nullify the effect of modest changes in the costs of these 

actions, especially when (as with the New York drug law and the Michigan 

firearms law) the criminal-justice system does not in practice impose 

greater risks. When the system in fact makes the behavior much more 

costly, as it did with the 317 juveniles in Chicago, we observe a 

reduction in crime. And when the prospective benefits from violating the 

law are small (as with teenage drinking, or perhaps with carrying an 

unlicensed gun), even small changes in the risks can have significant 

effects on behavior.<P>

All this means that it is difficult but not impossible to achieve 

increased deterrent effects through changes in the law. To obtain these 

effects, society must walk a narrow line--the penalties must be 

sufficiently great to offset, at the margin, the benefits of the illegal 

act, but not so great as to generate in the criminal-justice system 

resistance to their prompt imposition. If social experiments show that 

under some circumstances crime rates go down when penalties go up, can 

other experiments show that crime rates go down when jobs are easier to 

find?<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>D</font>ETERRENCE and job-creation are not different anti-crime strategies; they 

are two sides of the same strategy. The former increases the costs of 

crime; the latter enhances the benefits of alternatives to criminal 

behavior. The usefulness of each depends on the assumption that we are 

dealing with a reasonably rational potential offender.<P>

Let us return to our original example. The young man is still yearning for 

the money necessary to enjoy some high living. Let us assume that he 

considers finding a job. He knows he will have to look for one; this will 

take time. Assuming he gets one, he will have to wait even longer to 

obtain his first paycheck. But he knows that young men have difficulty 

finding their first jobs, especially in inner-city neighborhoods such as 

his. Moreover, he cannot be certain that the job he might get would 

provide benefits that exceed the costs. Working forty hours a week as a 

messenger, a dishwasher, or a busboy might not seem worth the sacrifice in 

time, effort, and reputation on the street corner that it entails. The 

young man may be wrong about all this, but if he is ignorant of the true 

risks of crime, he is probably just as ignorant of the true benefits of 

alternatives to crime.<P>

Compounding the problems of delay, uncertainty, and ignorance is the fact 

that society cannot feasibly make more than modest changes in the 

employment prospects of young men. Job-creation takes a long time, when it 

can be done at all, and many of the jobs created will go to the "wrong" 

(i.e., not criminally inclined) persons; thus, unemployment rates among 

the young will not vary greatly among states and will change only slowly 

over time. And if we wish to see differences in unemployment rates (or 

income levels) affect crime, we must estimate those effects by exactly the 

same statistical techniques we use to estimate the effect of 

criminal-justice sanctions.<P>

The problem of measurement error arises because we do not know with much 

accuracy the unemployment rate among youths by city or state. Much depends 

on who is looking for work and how hard, how we count students who are 

looking only for part-time jobs, and whether we can distinguish between 

people out of work for a long period and those who happen to be between 

jobs at the moment. Again, since inaccuracies in these data vary from 

place to place, we will obtain biased results.<P>

The problem of omitted factors is also real, as is evident in a frequently 

cited study done in 1976 by Harvey Brenner, of Johns Hopkins University. 

He suggested that between 1940 and 1973, increases in the unemployment 

rate led to increases in the homicide rate. But he omitted from his 

analysis any measure of changes in the certainty or the severity of 

sentences for murder, factors that other scholars have found to have a 

strong effect on homicide.<P>

Finally, the relationship between crime and unemployment (or poverty) is 

probably complex, not simple. For example, in a statistical study that 

manages to overcome the problems already mentioned, we might discover that 

as unemployment rates go up, crime rates go up. One's natural instinct 

would be to interpret this as meaning that rising unemployment causes 

rising crime. But rising crime might as easily cause rising unemployment. 

If young men examining the world about them conclude that crime pays more 

than work--that, for instance, stealing cars is more profitable than 

washing them--they may then leave their jobs in favor of crime. Some young 

men find dealing in drugs more attractive than nine-to

five jobs, but, technically, they are "unemployed."<P>

Perhaps both crime and unemployment are the results of some common 

underlying cause. In 1964, the unemployment rate for black men aged twenty 

to twenty-four was 12.6 percent; by 1978, it was 20 percent. During the 

same period, crime rates, in particular those involving young black men, 

went up. Among the several possible explanations are the changes that have 

occurred where so many young blacks live, in the inner parts of large 

cities. One such change is the movement out of the inner cities of both 

jobs and the social infrastructure that is manned by adult members of the 

middle class. The departure of jobs led to increased unemployment; the 

departure of the middle class led to lessened social control and hence to 

more crime. If we knew more than we now know, we would probably discover 

that all three relationships are working simultaneously: for some persons, 

unemployment leads to crime; for others, crime leads to unemployment; and 

for still others, social disintegration or personal inadequacy leads to 

both crime and unemployment.<P>

That several of these relationships are in fact at work is suggested by 

Brenner's study, which noted that the murder rate went up with increases 

in per capita income and inflation as well as with a rise in joblessness. 

But if the stress of joblessness leads to more murders, what is it about 

increases in average income (or in inflation) that also leads to more 

murders? And if society attempts to reduce the murder rate by reducing 

unemployment, how can it do this without at the same time increasing the 

murder rate, because, as a result of increased employment, it has managed 

to increase per capita incomes or stimulate inflation?<P>

I do not say this to explain away the studies purporting to show that 

unemployment or poverty causes crime, for in fact--contrary to what many 

people assert--very little research shows a relationship between economic 

factors and crime. Robert W. Gillespie, of the University of Illinois, 

reviewed studies available as of 1975 and found that out of ten looking 

for evidence of the existence of a significant relationship between 

unemployment and crime, only three were successful. In 1981, Thomas Orsagh 

and Ann Dryden Witte, both of the University of North Carolina, reviewed 

the studies that had appeared since 1975 and found very little 

statistically strong or consistent evidence to support the existence of 

such a connection. The evidence linking income (or poverty) and crime is 

similarly inconclusive, and probably for the same reasons: grave 

methodological problems confront anyone trying to find the relationship, 

and the relationship, to the extent that it exists is probably quite 

complex (some people may turn to crime because they are poor, some people 

may be poor because they have turned to crime but are not very good at it, 

and still others may have been made both poor and criminal because of some 

common underlying factor). To quote Orsagh and Witte: "Research using 

aggregate data provides only weak support for the simple proposition that 

unemployment causes crime....[and] does not provide convincing tests of 

the relationship between low income and crime."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>T</font>HE hope, widespread in the 1960's that job-creation and job-training 

programs would solve many social problems, including crime, led to 

countless efforts both to prevent crime by supplying jobs to crime-prone 

youths and to reduce crime among convicted offenders by supplying them 

with better job opportunities after their release from prison. One 

preventive program was the Neighborhood Youth Corps, which gave to poor 

young persons jobs during the afternoons and evenings and all day during 

the summer. An evaluation of the results of such programs among poor 

blacks in Cincinnati and Detroit found no evidence that participation in 

the Youth Corps had any effect on the proportion of enrollees who came 

into contact with the police. Essentially the same gloomy conclusion was 

reached by the authors of a survey of a large number of delinquency

prevention programs, though they reported a few glimmers of hope that 

certain programs might provide some benefits to some persons. For example, 

persons who had gone through a Job Corps program that featured intensive 

remedial education and job training in a residential camp were apparently 

less likely to be arrested six months after finishing their training than 

a control group.<P>

Though preventing crime and delinquency through job programs of the sort 

developed by the Great Society seemed a lost hope, somewhat more success 

was reported from efforts to reduce crime among ex-offenders. Philip Cook 

followed 325 men who had been released from Massachusetts prisons in 1959 

and found that parolees who were able to find "satisfactory" jobs (not 

just any job) were less likely than other parolees to have their parole 

revoked because they committed a new crime during an eighteen-month 

follow-up period. This was true even after controlling for the personal 

attributes of the parolees, such as race, intelligence, marital status, 

education, prior occupation, and military service.<P>

Findings such as Cook's may have reinforced the belief of policy-makers 

that if only we would re-integrate the ex-offender into the labor market, 

we could cut crime and at the same time save money through reduced prison 

populations. By the early 1970s, forty-two states had adopted some variety 

of "work-release" program for prisoners, in which convicts nearing the end 

of their prison terms were released into the community in order to work at 

various jobs during the day, returning to prison at night or on weekends. 

Gordon P. Waldo and Theodore G. Chiricos, of Florida State University, 

evaluated the results of work-release in Florida, and did so on the basis 

of a particularly sophisticated research design. Eligible inmates were 

randomly assigned to either a work-release or a non-release group. And 

many different measures of recidivism were calculated--not just whether 

the offender was later arrested but also the rate of arrests per month. 

Waldo and Chiricos found no differences whatsoever in the re

arrest rate (or in any measure of recidivism) between persons in and out 

of work-release. An equally unpromising result was found by Ann Dryden 

Witte in North Carolina, though there work-release may have led offenders 

to commit somewhat less serious crimes.<P>

If work-release seems not to reduce crime rates, perhaps it is because it 

focuses on work rather than on wealth. Perhaps if ex-offenders had more 

money, especially during the crucial few months after their release, they 

would not need to steal in order to support themselves. Some preliminary 

evidence gave credence to this view. In Baltimore, about 400 ex-convicts 

were randomly assigned to one of four groups--those receiving nothing, 

those receiving employment assistance, those receiving financial aid, and 

those receiving both job-placement services and financial aid. After two 

years, it was clear that getting employment counseling did not affect the 

chances of being re-arrested, but getting financial aid ($60 a week for 

thirteen weeks) did make a small difference (about 8 percent). This 

finding, however, brought with it a host of problems. For one thing, 

recidivism was defined as re-arrest, not the rate of re-arrest (thus 

possibly obscuring changes in the frequency with which persons committed 

crimes). Moreover, the study excluded first offenders, alcoholics, heroin 

users, and persons who had not committed property offenses.<P>

A fuller test of the combined effects of employment and wealth on criminal 

behavior was made in Georgia and Texas. Called TARP (Transitional Aid 

Research Project), it involved randomly assigning about 9,000 ex-convicts 

in each state to groups that, on release from prison, received financial 

aid, job-placement services, or nothing. This experiment was not only much 

larger than the one in Baltimore but also included all available 

categories of offenders, and it used the number of arrests of an 

individual (and not simply the fact of arrest) as the measure of the 

outcome. It also arranged that the financial aid that ex-convicts received 

would be reduced by any income they received from jobs--a more realistic 

arrangement than that used in Baltimore, where the ex-convicts could keep 

their financial aid whether or not they worked.<P>

The ex-convicts who received financial aid and/or employment counseling 

had about the same arrest rate after release as the group that received no 

aid or counseling. Moreover, individuals who received TARP financial aid 

worked less than those who did not, so the money could be said to have 

discouraged, rather than encouraged, employment. The authors of the 

evaluation, however, were not discouraged by these findings. A complex 

statistical analysis led them to suggest that if the financial assistance 

could have been administered so as not to cause unemployment, then the 

payments might have prevented some crime. That speculation has been 

challenged by critics. What is not in dispute is that, as administered, 

the TARP payments did not reduce crime.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>T</font>HE best and most recent effort to identify the link between employment 

and crime was the "supported-work" program of the Manpower Demonstration 

Research Corporation (MDRC). In ten locations around the country, MDRC 

randomly assigned four kinds of people with employment problems to special 

workshops or to control groups. The four categories were long-term welfare 

(Aid to Families with Dependent Children) recipients, school dropouts, 

former drug addicts, and ex-convicts. The workshops provided employment in 

unskilled jobs supplemented by training in job-related personal skills. 

The unique feature of the program was that all the participants in a given 

work setting were people with problems; thus the difficulties experienced 

by persons with chronic unemployment problems when they find themselves 

competing with persons who are successful job-seekers and job-holders were 

minimized. Moreover, the workshops were led by sympathetic supervisors 

(often themselves ex-addicts or ex-convicts), who gradually increased the 

level of expected performance until, after a year or so, the trainees were 

able to go out into the regular job market on their own. This government

subsidized work in a supportive environment, coupled with training in 

personal skills, was the most ambitious effort of all we have examined to 

get persons with chronic problems into the labor force. Unlike vocational 

training in prison, supported work provided real jobs in the civilian 

world, and training directly related to what one was paid to do. Unlike 

work

release programs, supported work did not immediately place the ex

convict in the civilian job market to sink or swim on his own.<P>

Welfare recipients and ex-addicts benefited from supported work, but ex

convicts and youthful school dropouts did not. Over a twenty-seven-month 

observation period, the school dropouts in the project were arrested as 

frequently as the school dropouts in the control group, and the ex

offenders in the project were arrested more frequently (seventeen more 

arrests per 100 persons) than ex-offenders in the control group.<P>

The clear implication, I think, of the supported-work project--and of all 

the studies to which I have referred--is that unemployment and other 

economic factors may well be connected with criminality, but the 

connection is not a simple one. If, as some people assume, "unemployment 

causes crime," then simply providing jobs to would-be criminals or to 

convicted criminals would reduce their propensity to commit crimes. We 

have very little evidence that this is true, at least for the kinds of 

persons helped by MDRC. Whether crime rates would go down if dropouts and 

ex-convicts held on to their jobs we cannot say, because, as the 

supported-work project clearly showed, within a year and a half after 

entering the program, the dropouts and ex-convicts were no more likely to 

be employed than those who had never entered the program at all--despite 

the great and compassionate efforts made on their behalf. Help, training, 

and jobs may make a difference for some persons--the young and criminally 

inexperienced dropout; the older, "burned-out" ex-addict; the more mature 

(over age thirty-five) ex-convict. But ex-addicts, middle

aged ex-cons, and inexperienced youths do not commit most of the crimes 

that worry us. These are committed by the young chronic offender.<P>

Marvin E. Wolfgang and his colleagues at the University of Pennsylvania, 

following the criminal careers of about 10,000 boys born in 1945 who lived 

in Philadelphia from their tenth to their eighteenth birthdays, found that 

about one third of the boys were arrested. For about half of these, their 

criminal "careers" stopped there. However, once a juvenile had been 

arrested three times, the chances that he would be arrested again were 

greater than 70 percent. These findings are consistent with the view that 

for novice offenders (to say nothing of non-offenders), some combination 

of informal social control, the deterrent effect of punishment, and the 

desire for normal entry into the world of work serves to restrain the 

growth of criminality. This is the group to whom we should look for 

evidence of the effects of changes in the probability and severity of 

punishment and of changes in job availability. At the other end of the 

scale, 6 percent of the Philadelphia boys committed five or more crimes 

before they were eighteen, accounting for more than half of all the 

recorded delinquencies of the 10,000 boys and most of the violent crimes 

committed by the entire cohort. The evidence from MDRC is consistent with 

the view that job programs are not likely to be effective with these 

offenders. Since we have only a few studies of the effect of deterrence on 

individuals (as opposed to large aggregates of people), we cannot be 

confident that increasing the certainty or severity of punishment would 

affect this group of hard-core, high-rate offenders, but evidence in the 

Murray and Cox study suggests that it might.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>I</font> BELIEVE that the weight of the evidence--aggregate statistical analyses, 

evaluations of experiments and quasi-experiments, and studies of 

individual behavior--supports the view that the rate of crime is 

influenced by its costs. This influence is greater--or easier to observe-

for some crimes and persons than for others. The crime rate can be lowered 

by increasing the certainty of sanctions, but inducing the 

criminal-justice system to make those changes is difficult, especially if 

apprehending and punishing the offender is not intrinsically rewarding to 

members of the criminal-justice system, or if the crime itself lacks the 

strong moral condemnation of society. In theory, the rate of crime should 

also be sensitive to the benefits of non-crime--for example, the value and 

availability of jobs--but thus far efforts to show that relationship have 

led to inconclusive results. Moreover, the nature of the connection 

between crime and legitimate opportunities is complex: unemployment (and 

prosperity!) can cause crime, crime can cause unemployment (but probably 

not prosperity), and both crime and unemployment may be caused by still 

other factors. Economic factors probably have the greatest influence on 

the behavior of infrequent, novice offenders and the least on frequent, 

experienced ones. Despite the uncertainty that attaches to the connection 

between the economy and crime, I believe that the wisest course of action 

for society is to try to increase the benefits of non

criminal behavior and the costs of crime simultaneously, all the while 

bearing in mind that no feasible change in either part of the equation is 

likely to produce big changes in crime rates.<P>

Some may agree with me but still feel that we should spend more heavily on 

one side or the other of the cost-benefit equation. At countless scholarly 

gatherings, I have heard learned persons examine closely any evidence 

purporting to show the deterrent effect of sanctions, but accept with 

scarcely a blink the theory that crime is caused by a "lack of 

opportunities." Perhaps they feel that since the evidence on both 

propositions is equivocal, it does less harm to believe in--and invest in-

the "benign" (i.e., job-creation) program. That is surely wrong. If we try 

to make the penalties for crime swifter and more certain, and it should 

turn out that deterrence does not work, then we have merely increased the 

risks facing persons who are guilty of crimes in any event. If we fail to 

increase the certainty and swiftness of penalties, and it should turn out 

that deterrence does work, then we have needlessly increased the risk of 

being victimized for many innocent persons.<P>

We can alter the crime rate in ways other than by manipulating the 

incentives confronting a would-be offender. Even if no criminal paid any 

heed to the risks he ran--an unlikely state of affairs--we could still 

reduce the crime rate by separating offenders (in prisons or on desert 

islands) from the rest of us. We call this "incapacitation." Almost no one 

doubts that incapacitation works: a man in prison cannot harm persons 

outside of prison, though scholars do disagree as to how large a reduction 

in crime we will obtain for a given cost (in money for prisons and in the 

freedom lost by the inmates).<P>

Many people doubt that manipulating incentives works. Settling that issue 

is important, because, in theory, changing the penalties and opportunities 

operating in society would be a more powerful crime-control technique than 

simply incapacitating known criminals. To the extent that behavior is 

affected by rewards, would-be criminals can be induced not to become 

criminals at all and existing criminals can be persuaded to reduce the 

rate at which they offend. Were sanctions sufficiently swift and certain 

(and were alternatives to crime sufficiently attractive), the long prison 

terms required by the incapacitation strategy might not be necessary.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>B</font>UT we cannot achieve large reductions in crime rates by making sanctions 

very swift or very certain or by making jobs very abundant, because things 

other than the fear of punishment or the desire for jobs affect the minds 

of offenders, and because while we say we want a speedy, fair, and 

efficient criminal-justice system, we want other things more.<P>

The behavior of most of us is affected by even small (and possibly 

illusory) changes in the costs attached to it. We are easily deterred by a 

crackdown on drunk driving, especially if it is highly publicized, and our 

willingness to take chances when filling out our tax returns is influenced 

by how likely we think an audit may be. Why, then, should we not see big 

changes in the crime rates when we make our laws tougher?<P>

The answer is not that, unlike the rest of us, burglars, muggers, and 

assaulters are irrational. I am struck by the account given in Sally Engle 

Merry's book, Urban Danger of her extended interviews with youthful 

offenders in a big-city neighborhood she observed for a year and a half. 

She found that these young men had a sophisticated, pragmatic view of 

their criminal enterprises, even though they were neither "white-collar" 

criminals nor highly professional burglars. They distinguished carefully 

between affluent and less-affluent targets, spoke knowledgeably about the 

chances of being caught in one part of the district as opposed to another, 

understood that some citizens were less likely to call the police than 

others, knew which offenses were most and which were least likely to lead 

to arrest and prosecution, and had formed a judgment about what kinds of 

stories the judges would or would not believe. Though many committed 

crimes opportunistically, or in retaliation for what they took to be the 

hostile attitudes of certain neighbors, they were neither so impulsive nor 

so emotional as to be unaware of, or indifferent to, the consequences of 

their actions.<P>

The chronic offenders who cause us all so much misery are probably 

especially aware of the risks they run. When Jan and Marcia Chaiken, of 

the Rand Corporation, analyzed the data gathered from more than 2,000 

inmates of jails and prisons in California, Michigan, and Texas, they 

found that the chances of going to prison for a crime were higher in Texas 

than in California, and that the inmates sensed it. The California inmates 

were twice as likely as the ones in Texas to say that they thought they 

could commit the same crime again without getting caught. The Chaikens 

found, in short, what appeared to be some connection among what criminals 

think will happen, what in fact does happen, and how criminals behave.<P>

Why, then, do crime rates seem so hard to change? The answer is not that 

criminals are irrational. It is rather that they evaluate their risks and 

opportunities by standards somewhat different from those of the rest of 

us, and society cannot easily change those risks and opportunities in ways 

that will have a noticeable effect on criminal behavior.<P>

Chronic offenders may attach little or no importance to the loss of 

reputation that comes from being arrested; in certain circles, they may 

feel that an arrest has enhanced their reputation. They may attach a low 

value to the alleged benefits of a legitimate job, because it requires 

punctuality, deferential behavior, and a forty-hour week, all in exchange 

for no more money than they can earn in three or four burglaries carried 

out at their leisure. These values are not acquired merely by trying crime 

and comparing its benefits with those of non-criminal behavior; if that 

were all that was involved, far more of us would be criminals. These 

preferences are shaped by personal temperament, early familial 

experiences, and contacts with street-corner peers--by character

forming processes that occur in intimate settings, produce lasting 

effects, and are hard to change.<P>

Whereas the drinking driver, the casual tax cheat, or the would-be draft 

evader, having conventional preferences, responds quickly to small changes 

in socially determined risks, the chronic offender seems to respond only 

to changes in risks that are sufficiently great to offset the large 

benefits he associates with crime and the low value he assigns to having a 

decent reputation. Changing risks to that degree is not impossible, but 

changing those risks permanently and for large numbers of persons is 

neither easy nor inexpensive, especially since (as we saw in Wayne County, 

with the felony firearm statute, and in New York, with the Rockefeller 

drug law) some members of the criminal-justice system resist programs of 

this kind.<P>

One third of all robberies committed in the United States are committed in 

the six largest cities, even though they contain only 8 percent of the 

nation's population. The conditions of the criminal-justice system in 

those cities range from poor to disastrous. The New York Times recently 

described one day in New York City's criminal courts. Nearly 4,000 cases 

came up on that day; each received, on the average, a three-minute hearing 

from one of seventy overworked judges. Fewer than one case in two hundred 

resulted in a trial. Three quarters of the summonses issued in the city 

are ignored; 3.7 million unanswered summonses now fill the courts' files. 

It is possible that some measure of rough justice results from all 

this--that the most serious offenders are dealt with adequately, and that 

the trivial or nonexistent penalties (other than inconvenience) imposed 

upon minor offenders do not contribute to the production of more chronic 

offenders. In short, these chaotic courts may not, as the Times described 

them, constitute a "system in collapse." But could such a system reduce 

the production of chronic offenders by increasing the swiftness, 

certainty, or severity of penalties for minor offenders? Could it take 

more seriously spouse assaults where the victim is reluctant to testify? 

Or monitor more closely the behavior of persons placed on probation on the 

condition that they perform community service or make restitution to their 

victims? Or weigh more carefully the sentences given to serious offenders, 

so as to maximize the crime-reduction potential of those sentences? It 

seems most unlikely. And yet, doing some or all of these things is exactly 

what is required by any plan to reduce crime by improving deterrence. For 

reasons best known to state legislators who talk tough about crime but 

appropriate too little money for a big-city court system to cope properly 

with lawbreakers, the struggle against street crime that has supposedly 

been going on for the last decade or so is in large measure a symbolic 

crusade.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>I</font> HAVE written at length elsewhere about the obstacles that prevent more 

than small, planned changes in the criminal-justice system. Given the 

modest effect that changes will have on the observable behavior of chronic 

offenders, we may want to supplement improvements in the criminal-justice 

system with programs that would reduce the causes of crime. When I 

published the first edition of Thinking About Crime, in 1975, I argued 

that a free society lacked the capacity to alter the root causes of crime, 

since they were almost surely to be found in the character-forming 

processes that go on in the family. The principal rejoinder to that 

argument was that these root causes could be found instead in the 

objective economic conditions confronting the offender. Labor-market or 

community conditions may indeed have some effect on the crime rate, but 

since I first wrote, the evidence has mounted that this effect is modest 

and hard to measure and that devising programs--even such extraordinary 

programs as supported work--that will have much impact on repeat offenders 

or school dropouts is exceptionally difficult.<P>

By contrast, a steadily growing body of evidence suggests that the family 

affects criminality and that its effect, at least for serious offenders, 

is lasting. Beginning with the research of Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck in 

Boston during the 1930s and 1940s, and continuing with the work of Lee 

Robins, William and Joan McCord, and Travis Hirschi in this country, 

Donald West and David Farrington in England, Lea Pulkinnen in Finland, Dan 

Olweus in Norway, and many others, we now have available an impressive 

number of studies that, taken together, support the following view: Some 

combination of constitutional traits and early family experiences accounts 

for more of the variation among young persons in their serious criminality 

than any other factors, and serious misconduct that appears relatively 

early in life tends to persist into adulthood. What happens on the street 

corner, in the school, or in the job market can still make a difference, 

but it will not be as influential as what has gone before.<P>

If criminals are rational persons with values different from those of the 

rest of us, then it stands to reason that temperament and family 

experiences, which most shape values, will have the greatest effect on 

crime, and that perceived costs and benefits will have a lesser impact. 

For example, in a society where people cannot be under continuous official 

surveillance, the pleasure I take in hitting people is likely to have a 

greater effect on my behavior than the occasional intervention of some 

person in a blue uniform who objects to my hitting others and sets in 

motion a lengthy and uncertain process that may or may not result in my 

being punished for doing the hitting.<P>

In a sense, the radical critics of America are correct. If you wish to 

make a big difference in crime rates, you must make a fundamental change 

in society. But what they propose to put in place of existing 

institutions, to the extent that they propose anything at all except angry 

rhetoric, would leave us yearning for the good old days when our crime 

rate may have been higher but our freedom was intact.<P>

There are, of course, ways of re-organizing a society other than along the 

authoritarian lines of radical Marxism. One can imagine living in a 

society in which the shared values of the people, reinforced by the 

operation of religious, educational, and communal organizations concerned 

with character formation, would produce a citizenry less criminal than 

ours is now without diminishing to any significant degree the political 

liberties we cherish. Indeed, we can do more than imagine it; we can 

recall it. During the latter half of the nineteenth century, we managed in 

this country to keep our crime rate lower than it might have been in the 

face of extensive urbanization, rapid industrialization, large-scale 

immigration, and the widening of class differences. We did this, as I have 

argued elsewhere ("Crime and American Culture," The Public Interest, 

Winter, 1982), by investing heavily in various systems of impulse control 

through revival movements, temperance societies, uplift organizations, and 

moral education--investments that were based on and gave effect to a 

widespread view that self-restraint was a fundamental element of 

character.<P>

These efforts were designed to protect (and, where necessary, to replace) 

the family, by institutionalizing familial virtues in society at large. 

The efforts weakened as the moral consensus on which they were based 

decayed: self-expression began to rival self-control as a core human 

value, at first among young, well-educated persons, and eventually among 

persons of every station. Child-rearing methods, school curricula, social 

fashions, and intellectual tendencies began to exalt rights over duties, 

spontaneity over loyalty, tolerance over conformity, and authenticity over 

convention.<P>

The criminal-justice system of the nineteenth century was probably no 

swifter or more certain in its operations than the system of today, at 

least in the large cities, and the economy was even more subject to booms 

and busts than anything we have known since the 1930s. The police were 

primitively organized and slow to respond, plea bargaining was then, as 

now, rife in the criminal courts, prisons were overcrowded and 

nontherapeutic, and protection against the vicissitudes of the labor 

market was haphazard or nonexistent. Yet these larger social processes may 

have had a greater effect on crime rates then than they do today, because 

then, unlike now, they were working in concert with social sentiments: 

society condemned those whom the police arrested, the judge convicted, or 

the labor market ignored. Shame magnified the effect of punishment, and 

perhaps was its most important part.<P>

Today, we are forced to act as if the degree of crime control that was 

once obtained by the joint effect of intimate social processes and larger 

social institutions can be achieved by the latter alone. It is as if we 

hope to find in some combination of swift and certain penalties and 

abundant economic opportunities a substitute for discordant homes, 

secularized churches, intimidated schools, and an ethos of individual 

self-expression. We are not likely to succeed.<P>

Nor are we likely to reproduce, by plan, an older ethos or its 

accompanying array of voluntary associations and social movements. And, 

since we should not abandon essential political liberties, our 

crime-control efforts for the most part will have to proceed on the 

assumption--shaky as it is-

that the things we can change, at least marginally, will make a 

significant difference. We must act as if swifter and more certain 

sanctions and better opportunities will improve matters. Up to a point, I 

think, they will, but in reaching for that point we must be prepared for 

modest gains uncertainly measured and expensively priced.<P>

Brighter prospects may lie ahead. By 1990, about half a million fewer 

eighteen-year-old males will be living in this country than were living 

here in 1979. As everyone knows, young males commit proportionately more 

crimes than older ones. Since it is the case in general that about 6 

percent of young males become chronic offenders, we will in 1990 have 

30,000 fewer eighteen-year-old chronic offenders; if each chronic offender 

commits ten offenses (a conservative estimate) per year, we will have a 

third of a million fewer crimes from this age group alone. But other 

things may happen as well as the change in numbers. A lasting drop in the 

birthrate will mean that the number of children per family will remain 

low, easing the parental problem of supervision. A less youthful society 

may be less likely to celebrate a "youth culture," with its attendant 

emphasis on unfettered self-expression. A society less attuned to youth 

may find it can more easily re-assert traditional values and may be more 

influenced by the otherwise marginal effects of improvements in the 

efficiency of the criminal-justice system and the operation of the labor 

market. Natural and powerful demographic forces, rather than the 

deliberate re-establishment of an older culture, may increase the values 

of those few policy tools with which a free society can protect itself. In 

the meantime, justice requires that we use those tools, because penalizing 

wrong conduct and rewarding good conduct are right policies in themselves, 

whatever effect they may have.<P>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1983 by James Q.  Wilson.  All rights reserved.  <br>



The Atlantic Monthly; September 1983; Thinking About Crime; Volume 252, 

Number 3; pages 72-88. </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-6</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B046-14</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/streets.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117201753 text/html 44357
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:17:42 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:40 GMT
Content-length: 44151
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Code of the Streets

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>May 1994</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



The Code of the Streets



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Elijah Anderson</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>



	<i><font size=4>In this essay in urban anthropology a social scientist 

	takes us inside a world most of us only glimpse in grisly headlines--"Teen 

	Killed in Drive By Shooting"--to show us how a desperate search for respect 

	governs social relations among many African-American young 

	men</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

<font size=5>O</font>f all the problems besetting the poor inner-city black 

community, none is more pressing than that of interpersonal violence and 

aggression.  It wreaks havoc daily with the lives of community residents 

and increasingly spills over into downtown and residential middle-class 

areas.  Muggings, burglaries, carjackings, and drug-related shootings, all 

of which may leave their victims or innocent bystanders dead, are now 

common enough to concern all urban and many suburban residents.  The 

inclination to violence springs from the circumstances of life among the 

ghetto poor--the lack of jobs that pay a living wage, the stigma of race, 

the fallout from rampant drug use and drug trafficking, and the resulting 

alienation and lack of hope for the future.<P>



Simply living in such an environment places young people at special risk 

of falling victim to aggressive behavior. Although there are often forces 

in the community which can counteract the negative influences, by far the 

most powerful being a strong, loving, "decent" (as inner-city residents 

put it) family committed to middle-class values, the despair is pervasive 

enough to have spawned an oppositional culture, that of "the streets," 

whose norms are often consciously opposed to those of mainstream society. 

These two orientations--decent and street--socially organize the 

community, and their coexistence has important consequences for residents, 

particularly children growing up in the inner city. Above all, this 

environment means that even youngsters whose home lives reflect mainstream 

values--and the majority of homes in the community do--

must be able to handle themselves in a street-oriented environment.<P>

This is because the street culture has evolved what may be called a code 

of the streets, which amounts to a set of informal rules governing 

interpersonal public behavior, including violence. The rules prescribe 

both a proper comportment and a proper way to respond if challenged. They 

regulate the use of violence and so allow those who are inclined to 

aggression to precipitate violent encounters in an approved way. The rules 

have been established and are enforced mainly by the street-oriented, but 

on the streets the distinction between street and decent is often 

irrelevant; everybody knows that if the rules are violated, there are 

penalties. Knowledge of the code is thus largely defensive; it is 

literally necessary for operating in public. Therefore, even though 

families with a decency orientation are usually opposed to the values of 

the code, they often reluctantly encourage their children's familiarity 

with it to enable them to negotiate the inner-city environment.<P>

At the heart of the code is the issue of respect--loosely defined as being 

treated "right," or granted the deference one deserves. However, in the 

troublesome public environment of the inner city, as people increasingly 

feel buffeted by forces beyond their control, what one deserves in the way 

of respect becomes more and more problematic and uncertain. This in turn 

further opens the issue of respect to sometimes intense interpersonal 

negotiation. In the street culture, especially among young people, respect 

is viewed as almost an external entity that is hard-won but easily lost, 

and so must constantly be guarded. The rules of the code in fact provide a 

framework for negotiating respect. The person whose very appearance--

including his clothing, demeanor, and way of moving--deters transgressions 

feels that he possesses, and may be considered by others to possess, a 

measure of respect. With the right amount of respect, for instance, he can 

avoid "being bothered" in public. If he is bothered, not only may he be in 

physical danger but he has been disgraced or "dissed" (disrespected). Many 

of the forms that dissing can take might seem petty to middle-class people 

(maintaining eye contact for too long, for example), but to those invested 

in the street code, these actions become serious indications of the other 

person's intentions. Consequently, such people become very sensitive to 

advances and slights, which could well serve as warnings of imminent 

physical confrontation.<P>

This hard reality can be traced to the profound sense of alienation from 

mainstream society and its institutions felt by many poor inner-city black 

people, particularly the young. The code of the streets is actually a 

cultural adaptation to a profound lack of faith in the police and the 

judicial system. The police are most often seen as representing the 

dominant white society and not caring to protect inner-city residents. 

When called, they may not respond, which is one reason many residents feel 

they must be prepared to take extraordinary measures to defend themselves 

and their loved ones against those who are inclined to aggression. Lack of 

police accountability has in fact been incorporated into the status 

system: the person who is believed capable of "taking care of himself" is 

accorded a certain deference, which translates into a sense of physical 

and psychological control. Thus the street code emerges where the 

influence of the police ends and personal responsibility for one's safety 

is felt to begin. Exacerbated by the proliferation of drugs and easy 

access to guns, this volatile situation results in the ability of the 

street oriented minority (or those who effectively "go for bad") to dominate the 

public spaces.<P>

<br>

<br>



<B>DECENT AND STREET FAMILIES</B><P>



<font size=5>A</font>LTHOUGH almost everyone in poor inner-city neighborhoods is struggling 

financially and therefore feels a certain distance from the rest of 

America, the decent and the street family in a real sense represent two 

poles of value orientation, two contrasting conceptual categories. The 

labels "decent" and "street," which the residents themselves use, amount 

to evaluative judgments that confer status on local residents. The 

labeling is often the result of a social contest among individuals and 

families of the neighborhood. Individuals of the two orientations often 

coexist in the same extended family. Decent residents judge themselves to 

be so while judging others to be of the street, and street individuals 

often present themselves as decent, drawing distinctions between 

themselves and other people. In addition, there is quite a bit of 

circumstantial behavior--that is, one person may at different times 

exhibit both decent and street orientations, depending on the 

circumstances. Although these designations result from so much social 

jockeying, there do exist concrete features that define each conceptual 

category.<P>

Generally, so-called decent families tend to accept mainstream values more 

fully and attempt to instill them in their children. Whether married 

couples with children or single-parent (usually female) households, they 

are generally "working poor" and so tend to be better off financially than 

their street-oriented neighbors. They value hard work and self-reliance 

and are willing to sacrifice for their children. Because they have a 

certain amount of faith in mainstream society, they harbor hopes for a 

better future for their children, if not for themselves. Many of them go 

to church and take a strong interest in their children's schooling. Rather 

than dwelling on the real hardships and inequities facing them, many such 

decent people, particularly the increasing number of grandmothers raising 

grandchildren, see their difficult situation as a test from God and derive 

great support from their faith and from the church community.<P>

Extremely aware of the problematic and often dangerous environment in 

which they reside, decent parents tend to be strict in their child-rearing 

practices, encouraging children to respect authority and walk a straight 

moral line. They have an almost obsessive concern about trouble of any 

kind and remind their children to be on the lookout for people and 

situations that might lead to it. At the same time, they are themselves 

polite and considerate of others, and teach their children to be the same 

way. At home, at work, and in church, they strive hard to maintain a 

positive mental attitude and a spirit of cooperation.<P>

So-called street parents, in contrast, often show a lack of consideration 

for other people and have a rather superficial sense of family and 

community. Though they may love their children, many of them are unable to 

cope with the physical and emotional demands of parenthood, and find it 

difficult to reconcile their needs with those of their children. These 

families, who are more fully invested in the code of the streets than the 

decent people are, may aggressively socialize their children into it in a 

normative way. They believe in the code and judge themselves and others 

according to its values.<P>

In fact the overwhelming majority of families in the inner-city community 

try to approximate the decent-family model, but there are many others who 

clearly represent the worst fears of the decent family. Not only are their 

financial resources extremely limited, but what little they have may 

easily be misused. The lives of the street-oriented are often marked by 

disorganization. In the most desperate circumstances people frequently 

have a limited understanding of priorities and consequences, and so 

frustrations mount over bills, food, and, at times, drink, cigarettes, and 

drugs. Some tend toward self-destructive behavior; many street-oriented 

women are crack-addicted ("on the pipe"), alcoholic, or involved in 

complicated relationships with men who abuse them. In addition, the 

seeming intractability of their situation, caused in large part by the 

lack of well-paying jobs and the persistence of racial discrimination, has 

engendered deep-seated bitterness and anger in many of the most desperate 

and poorest blacks, especially young people. The need both to exercise a 

measure of control and to lash out at somebody is often reflected in the 

adults' relations with their children. At the least, the frustrations of 

persistent poverty shorten the fuse in such people--

contributing to a lack of patience with anyone, child or adult, who 

irritates them.<P>

In these circumstances a woman--or a man, although men are less 

consistently present in children's lives--can be quite aggressive with 

children, yelling at and striking them for the least little infraction of 

the rules she has set down. Often little if any serious explanation 

follows the verbal and physical punishment. This response teaches children 

a particular lesson. They learn that to solve any kind of interpersonal 

problem one must quickly resort to hitting or other violent behavior. 

Actual peace and quiet, and also the appearance of calm, respectful 

children conveyed to her neighbors and friends, are often what the young 

mother most desires, but at times she will be very aggressive in trying to 

get them. Thus she may be quick to beat her children, especially if they 

defy her law, not because she hates them but because this is the way she 

knows to control them. In fact, many street-oriented women love their 

children dearly. Many mothers in the community subscribe to the notion 

that there is a "devil in the boy" that must be beaten out of him or that 

socially "fast girls need to be whupped." Thus much of what borders on 

child abuse in the view of social authorities is acceptable parental 

punishment in the view of these mothers.<P>

Many street-oriented women are sporadic mothers whose children learn to 

fend for themselves when necessary, foraging for food and money any way 

they can get it. The children are sometimes employed by drug dealers or 

become addicted themselves. These children of the street, growing up with 

little supervision, are said to "come up hard." They often learn to fight 

at an early age, sometimes using short-tempered adults around them as role 

models. The street-oriented home may be fraught with anger, verbal 

disputes, physical aggression, and even mayhem. The children observe these 

goings-on, learning the lesson that might makes right. They quickly learn 

to hit those who cross them, and the dog-eat-dog mentality prevails. In 

order to survive, to protect oneself, it is necessary to marshal inner 

resources and be ready to deal with adversity in a hands-on way. In these 

circumstances physical prowess takes on great significance.<P>

In some of the most desperate cases, a street-oriented mother may simply 

leave her young children alone and unattended while she goes out. The most 

irresponsible women can be found at local bars and crack houses, getting 

high and socializing with other adults. Sometimes a troubled woman will 

leave very young children alone for days at a time. Reports of crack 

addicts abandoning their children have become common in drug

infested inner-city communities. Neighbors or relatives discover the 

abandoned children, often hungry and distraught over the absence of their 

mother. After repeated absences, a friend or relative, particularly a 

grandmother, will often step in to care for the young children, sometimes 

petitioning the authorities to send her, as guardian of the children, the 

mother's welfare check, if the mother gets one. By this time, however, the 

children may well have learned the first lesson of the streets: survival 

itself, let alone respect, cannot be taken for granted; you have to fight 

for your place in the world.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>CAMPAIGNING FOR RESPECT</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>HESE realities of inner-city life are largely absorbed on the streets. At 

an early age, often even before they start school, children from street

oriented homes gravitate to the streets, where they "hang"--socialize with 

their peers. Children from these generally permissive homes have a great 

deal of latitude and are allowed to "rip and run" up and down the street. 

They often come home from school, put their books down, and go right back 

out the door. On school nights eight- and nine-year-olds remain out until 

nine or ten o'clock (and teenagers typically come in whenever they want 

to). On the streets they play in groups that often become the source of 

their primary social bonds. Children from decent homes tend to be more 

carefully supervised and are thus likely to have curfews and to be taught 

how to stay out of trouble.<P>

When decent and street kids come together, a kind of social shuffle occurs 

in which children have a chance to go either way. Tension builds as a 

child comes to realize that he must choose an orientation. The kind of 

home he comes from influences but does not determine the way he will 

ultimately turn out--although it is unlikely that a child from a 

thoroughly street

oriented family will easily absorb decent values on the streets. Youths 

who emerge from street-oriented families but develop a decency orientation 

almost always learn those values in another setting--in school, in a youth 

group, in church. Often it is the result of their involvement with a 

caring "old head" (adult role model).<P>

In the street, through their play, children pour their individual life 

experiences into a common knowledge pool, affirming, confirming, and 

elaborating on what they have observed in the home and matching their 

skills against those of others. And they learn to fight. Even small 

children test one another, pushing and shoving, and are ready to hit other 

children over circumstances not to their liking. In turn, they are readily 

hit by other children, and the child who is toughest prevails. Thus the 

violent resolution of disputes, the hitting and cursing, gains social 

reinforcement. The child in effect is initiated into a system that is 

really a way of campaigning for respect.<P>

In addition, younger children witness the disputes of older children, 

which are often resolved through cursing and abusive talk, if not 

aggression or outright violence. They see that one child succumbs to the 

greater physical and mental abilities of the other. They are also alert 

and attentive witnesses to the verbal and physical fights of adults, after 

which they compare notes and share their interpretations of the event. In 

almost every case the victor is the person who physically won the 

altercation, and this person often enjoys the esteem and respect of 

onlookers. These experiences reinforce the lessons the children have 

learned at home: might makes right, and toughness is a virtue, while 

humility is not. In effect they learn the social meaning of fighting. When 

it is left virtually unchallenged, this understanding becomes an ever more 

important part of the child's working conception of the world. Over time 

the code of the streets becomes refined.<P>

Those street-oriented adults with whom children come in contact--

including mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, boyfriends, cousins, 

neighbors, and friends--help them along in forming this understanding by 

verbalizing the messages they are getting through experience: "Watch your 

back." "Protect yourself." "Don't punk out." "If somebody messes with you, 

you got to pay them back." "If someone disses you, you got to straighten 

them out." Many parents actually impose sanctions if a child is not 

sufficiently aggressive. For example, if a child loses a fight and comes 

home upset, the parent might respond, "Don't you come in here crying that 

somebody beat you up; you better get back out there and whup his ass. I 

didn't raise no punks! Get back out there and whup his ass. If you don't 

whup his ass, I'll whup your ass when you come home." Thus the child 

obtains reinforcement for being tough and showing nerve.<P>

While fighting, some children cry as though they are doing something they 

are ambivalent about. The fight may be against their wishes, yet they may 

feel constrained to fight or face the consequences--not just from peers 

but also from caretakers or parents, who may administer another beating if 

they back down. Some adults recall receiving such lessons from their own 

parents and justify repeating them to their children as a way to toughen 

them up. Looking capable of taking care of oneself as a form of 

self-defense is a dominant theme among both street-oriented and decent 

adults who worry about the safety of their children. There is thus at 

times a convergence in their child-rearing practices, although the 

rationales behind them may differ. <P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>SELF-IMAGE BASED ON "JUICE"</B><P>



<font size=5>B</font>Y the time they are teenagers, most youths have either internalized the 

code of the streets or at least learned the need to comport themselves in 

accordance with its rules, which chiefly have to do with interpersonal 

communication. The code revolves around the presentation of self. Its 

basic requirement is the display of a certain predisposition to violence. 

Accordingly, one's bearing must send the unmistakable if sometimes subtle 

message to "the next person" in public that one is capable of violence and 

mayhem when the situation requires it, that one can take care of oneself. 

The nature of this communication is largely determined by the demands of 

the circumstances but can include facial expressions, gait, and verbal 

expressions--all of which are geared mainly to deterring aggression. 

Physical appearance, including clothes, jewelry, and grooming, also plays 

an important part in how a person is viewed; to be respected, it is 

important to have the right look.<P>

Even so, there are no guarantees against challenges, because there are 

always people around looking for a fight to increase their share of 

respect--or "juice," as it is sometimes called on the street. Moreover, if 

a person is assaulted, it is important, not only in the eyes of his 

opponent but also in the eyes of his "running buddies," for him to avenge 

himself. Otherwise he risks being "tried" (challenged) or "moved on" by 

any number of others. To maintain his honor he must show he is not someone 

to be "messed with" or "dissed." In general, the person must "keep himself 

straight" by managing his position of respect among others; this involves 

in part his self-image, which is shaped by what he thinks others are 

thinking of him in relation to his peers.<P>

Objects play an important and complicated role in establishing self

image. Jackets, sneakers, gold jewelry, reflect not just a person's taste, 

which tends to be tightly regulated among adolescents of all social 

classes, but also a willingness to possess things that may require 

defending. A boy wearing a fashionable, expensive jacket, for example, is 

vulnerable to attack by another who covets the jacket and either cannot 

afford to buy one or wants the added satisfaction of depriving someone 

else of his. However, if the boy forgoes the desirable jacket and wears 

one that isn't "hip," he runs the risk of being teased and possibly even 

assaulted as an unworthy person. To be allowed to hang with certain 

prestigious crowds, a boy must wear a different set of expensive clothes

--sneakers and athletic suit--every day. Not to be able to do so might make 

him appear socially deficient. The youth comes to covet such items--

especially when he sees easy prey wearing them.<P>

In acquiring valued things, therefore, a person shores up his 

identity--but since it is an identity based on having things, it is highly 

precarious. This very precariousness gives a heightened sense of urgency 

to staying even with peers, with whom the person is actually competing. 

Young men and women who are able to command respect through their 

presentation of self--by allowing their possessions and their body 

language to speak for them--may not have to campaign for regard but may, 

rather, gain it by the force of their manner. Those who are unable to 

command respect in this way must actively campaign for it--and are thus 

particularly alive to slights.<P>

One way of campaigning for status is by taking the possessions of others. 

In this context, seemingly ordinary objects can become trophies imbued 

with symbolic value that far exceeds their monetary worth. Possession of 

the trophy can symbolize the ability to violate somebody--to "get in his 

face," to take something of value from him, to "dis" him, and thus to 

enhance one's own worth by stealing someone else's. The trophy does not 

have to be something material. It can be another person's sense of honor, 

snatched away with a derogatory remark. It can be the outcome of a fight. 

It can be the imposition of a certain standard, such as a girl's getting 

herself recognized as the most beautiful. Material things, however, fit 

easily into the pattern. Sneakers, a pistol, even somebody else's 

girlfriend, can become a trophy. When a person can take something from 

another and then flaunt it, he gains a certain regard by being the owner, 

or the controller, of that thing. But this display of ownership can then 

provoke other people to challenge him. This game of who controls what is 

thus constantly being played out on inner-city streets, and the trophy--

extrinsic or intrinsic, tangible or intangible--identifies the current 

winner.<P>

An important aspect of this often violent give-and-take is its zero-sum 

quality. That is, the extent to which one person can raise himself up 

depends on his ability to put another person down. This underscores the 

alienation that permeates the inner-city ghetto community. There is a 

generalized sense that very little respect is to be had, and therefore 

everyone competes to get what affirmation he can of the little that is 

available. The craving for respect that results gives people thin skins. 

Shows of deference by others can be highly soothing, contributing to a 

sense of security, comfort, self-confidence, and self-respect. 

Transgressions by others which go unanswered diminish these feelings and 

are believed to encourage further transgressions. Hence one must be ever 

vigilant against the transgressions of others or even appearing as if 

transgressions will be tolerated. Among young people, whose sense of 

self-esteem is particularly vulnerable, there is an especially heightened 

concern with being disrespected. Many inner-city young men in particular 

crave respect to such a degree that they will risk their lives to attain 

and maintain it.<P>

The issue of respect is thus closely tied to whether a person has an 

inclination to be violent, even as a victim. In the wider society people 

may not feel required to retaliate physically after an attack, even though 

they are aware that they have been degraded or taken advantage of. They 

may feel a great need to defend themselves during an attack, or to behave 

in such a way as to deter aggression (middle-class people certainly can 

and do become victims of street-oriented youths), but they are much more 

likely than street-oriented people to feel that they can walk away from a 

possible altercation with their self-esteem intact. Some people may even 

have the strength of character to flee, without any thought that their 

self-respect or esteem will be diminished.<P>

In impoverished inner-city black communities, however, particularly among 

young males and perhaps increasingly among females, such flight would be 

extremely difficult. To run away would likely leave one's self

esteem in tatters. Hence people often feel constrained not only to stand 

up and at least attempt to resist during an assault but also to "pay 

back"--to seek revenge--after a successful assault on their person. This 

may include going to get a weapon or even getting relatives involved. 

Their very identity and self-respect, their honor, is often intricately 

tied up with the way they perform on the streets during and after such 

encounters. This outlook reflects the circumscribed opportunities of the 

inner-city poor. Generally people outside the ghetto have other ways of 

gaining status and regard, and thus do not feel so dependent on such 

physical displays.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>BY TRIAL OF MANHOOD</B><P>



<font size=5>O</font>N the street, among males these concerns about things and identity have 

come to be expressed in the concept of "manhood." Manhood in the inner 

city means taking the prerogatives of men with respect to strangers, other 

men, and women--being distinguished as a man. It implies physicality and a 

certain ruthlessness. Regard and respect are associated with this concept 

in large part because of its practical application: if others have little 

or no regard for a person's manhood, his very life and those of his loved 

ones could be in jeopardy. But there is a chicken-and egg aspect to this situation: one's physical safety is more likely to be 

jeopardized in public because manhood is associated with respect. In other 

words, an existential link has been created between the idea of manhood 

and one's self-esteem, so that it has become hard to say which is primary. 

For many inner-city youths, manhood and respect are flip sides of the same 

coin; physical and psychological well-being are inseparable, and both 

require a sense of control, of being in charge.<P>

The operating assumption is that a man, especially a real man, knows what 

other men know--the code of the streets. And if one is not a real man, one 

is somehow diminished as a person, and there are certain valued things one 

simply does not deserve. There is thus believed to be a certain justice to 

the code, since it is considered that everyone has the opportunity to know 

it. Implicit in this is that everybody is held responsible for being 

familiar with the code. If the victim of a mugging, for example, does not 

know the code and so responds "wrong," the perpetrator may feel justified 

even in killing him and may feel no remorse. He may think, "Too bad, but 

it's his fault. He should have known better."<P>

So when a person ventures outside, he must adopt the code--a kind of 

shield, really--to prevent others from "messing with" him. In these 

circumstances it is easy for people to think they are being tried or 

tested by others even when this is not the case. For it is sensed that 

something extremely valuable is at stake in every interaction, and people 

are encouraged to rise to the occasion, particularly with strangers. For 

people who are unfamiliar with the code--generally people who live outside 

the inner city--the concern with respect in the most ordinary interactions 

can be frightening and incomprehensible. But for those who are invested in 

the code, the clear object of their demeanor is to discourage strangers 

from even thinking about testing their manhood. And the sense of power 

that attends the ability to deter others can be alluring even to those who 

know the code without being heavily invested in it--the decent inner-city 

youths. Thus a boy who has been leading a basically decent life can, in 

trying circumstances, suddenly resort to deadly force.<P>

Central to the issue of manhood is the widespread belief that one of the 

most effective ways of gaining respect is to manifest "nerve." Nerve is 

shown when one takes another person's possessions (the more valuable the 

better), "messes with" someone's woman, throws the first punch, "gets in 

someone's face," or pulls a trigger. Its proper display helps on the spot 

to check others who would violate one's person and also helps to build a 

reputation that works to prevent future challenges. But since such a show 

of nerve is a forceful expression of disrespect toward the person on the 

receiving end, the victim may be greatly offended and seek to retaliate 

with equal or greater force. A display of nerve, therefore, can easily 

provoke a life-threatening response, and the background knowledge of that 

possibility has often been incorporated into the concept of nerve.<P>

True nerve exposes a lack of fear of dying. Many feel that it is 

acceptable to risk dying over the principle of respect. In fact, among the 

hard-core street-oriented, the clear risk of violent death may be 

preferable to being "dissed" by another. The youths who have internalized 

this attitude and convincingly display it in their public bearing are 

among the most threatening people of all, for it is commonly assumed that 

they fear no man. As the people of the community say, "They are the 

baddest dudes on the street." They often lead an existential life that may 

acquire meaning only when they are faced with the possibility of imminent 

death. Not to be afraid to die is by implication to have few compunctions 

about taking another's life. Not to be afraid to die is the quid pro quo 

of being able to take somebody else's life--for the right reasons, if the 

situation demands it. When others believe this is one's position, it gives 

one a real sense of power on the streets. Such credibility is what many 

inner-city youths strive to achieve, whether they are decent or 

street-oriented, both because of its practical defensive value and because 

of the positive way it makes them feel about themselves. The difference 

between the decent and the street-oriented youth is often that the decent 

youth makes a conscious decision to appear tough and manly; in another 

setting--with teachers, say, or at his part-time job--he can be polite and 

deferential. The street-oriented youth, on the other hand, has made the 

concept of manhood a part of his very identity; he has difficulty 

manipulating it--it often controls him.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>GIRLS AND BOYS</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>NCREASINGLY, teenage girls are mimicking the boys and trying to have 

their own version of "manhood." Their goal is the same--to get respect, to 

be recognized as capable of setting or maintaining a certain standard. 

They try to achieve this end in the ways that have been established by the 

boys, including posturing, abusive language, and the use of violence to 

resolve disputes, but the issues for the girls are different. Although 

conflicts over turf and status exist among the girls, the majority of 

disputes seem rooted in assessments of beauty (which girl in a group is 

"the cutest"), competition over boyfriends, and attempts to regulate other 

people's knowledge of and opinions about a girl's behavior or that of 

someone close to her, especially her mother.<P>

A major cause of conflicts among girls is "he say, she say." This practice 

begins in the early school years and continues through high school. It 

occurs when "people," particularly girls, talk about others, thus putting 

their "business in the streets." Usually one girl will say something 

negative about another in the group, most often behind the person's back. 

The remark will then get back to the person talked about. She may 

retaliate or her friends may feel required to "take up for" her. In 

essence this is a form of group gossiping in which individuals are 

negatively assessed and evaluated. As with much gossip, the things said 

may or may not be true, but the point is that such imputations can cast 

aspersions on a person's good name. The accused is required to defend 

herself against the slander, which can result in arguments and fights, 

often over little of real substance. Here again is the problem of low 

self-esteem, which encourages youngsters to be highly sensitive to slights 

and to be vulnerable to feeling easily "dissed." To avenge the dissing, a 

fight is usually necessary.<P>

Because boys are believed to control violence, girls tend to defer to them 

in situations of conflict. Often if a girl is attacked or feels slighted, 

she will get a brother, uncle, or cousin to do her fighting for her. 

Increasingly, however, girls are doing their own fighting and are even 

asking their male relatives to teach them how to fight. Some girls form 

groups that attack other girls or take things from them. A hard-core 

segment of inner-city girls inclined toward violence seems to be 

developing. As one thirteen year-old girl in a detention center for youths who have committed violent 

acts told me, "To get people to leave you alone, you gotta fight. Talking 

don't always get you out of stuff." One major difference between girls and 

boys: girls rarely use guns. Their fights are therefore not life-or-death 

struggles. Girls are not often willing to put their lives on the line for 

"manhood." The ultimate form of respect on the male-dominated inner-city 

street is thus reserved for men.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>"GOING FOR BAD"</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>N the most fearsome youths such a cavalier attitude toward death grows 

out of a very limited view of life. Many are uncertain about how long they 

are going to live and believe they could die violently at any time. They 

accept this fate; they live on the edge. Their manner conveys the message 

that nothing intimidates them; whatever turn the encounter takes, they 

maintain their attack--rather like a pit bull, whose spirit many such boys 

admire. The demonstration of such tenacity "shows heart" and earns their 

respect.<P>

This fearlessness has implications for law enforcement. Many street

oriented boys are much more concerned about the threat of "justice" at the 

hands of a peer than at the hands of the police. Moreover, many feel not 

only that they have little to lose by going to prison but that they have 

something to gain. The toughening-up one experiences in prison can 

actually enhance one's reputation on the streets. Hence the system loses 

influence over the hard core who are without jobs, with little perceptible 

stake in the system. If mainstream society has done nothing for them, they 

counter by making sure it can do nothing to them.<P>

At the same time, however, a competing view maintains that true nerve 

consists in backing down, walking away from a fight, and going on with 

one's business. One fights only in self-defense. This view emerges from 

the decent philosophy that life is precious, and it is an important part 

of the socialization process common in decent homes. It discourages 

violence as the primary means of resolving disputes and encourages 

youngsters to accept nonviolence and talk as confrontational strategies. 

But "if the deal goes down," self-defense is greatly encouraged. When 

there is enough positive support for this orientation, either in the home 

or among one's peers, then nonviolence has a chance to prevail. But it 

prevails at the cost of relinquishing a claim to being bad and tough, and 

therefore sets a young person up as at the very least alienated from 

street-oriented peers and quite possibly a target of derision or even 

violence.<P>

Although the nonviolent orientation rarely overcomes the impulse to strike 

back in an encounter, it does introduce a certain confusion and so can 

prompt a measure of soul-searching, or even profound ambivalence. Did the 

person back down with his respect intact or did he back down only to be 

judged a "punk"--a person lacking manhood? Should he or she have acted? 

Should he or she have hit the other person in the mouth? These questions 

beset many young men and women during public confrontations. What is the 

"right" thing to do? In the quest for honor, respect, and local 

status--which few young people are uninterested in--common sense most 

often prevails, which leads many to opt for the tough approach, enacting 

their own particular versions of the display of nerve. The presentation of 

oneself as rough and tough is very often quite acceptable until one is 

tested. And then that presentation may help the person pass the test, 

because it will cause fewer questions to be asked about what he did and 

why. It is hard for a person to explain why he lost the fight or why he 

backed down. Hence many will strive to appear to "go for bad," while 

hoping they will never be tested. But when they are tested, the outcome of 

the situation may quickly be out of their hands, as they become wrapped up 

in the circumstances of the moment.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>AN OPPOSITIONAL CULTURE</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>HE attitudes of the wider society are deeply implicated in the code of 

the streets. Most people in inner-city communities are not totally 

invested in the code, but the significant minority of hard-core street 

youths who are have to maintain the code in order to establish 

reputations, because they have--or feel they have--few other ways to 

assert themselves. For these young people the standards of the street code 

are the only game in town. The extent to which some children--particularly 

those who through upbringing have become most alienated and those lacking 

in strong and conventional social support--experience, feel, and 

internalize racist rejection and contempt from mainstream society may 

strongly encourage them to express contempt for the more conventional 

society in turn. In dealing with this contempt and rejection, some 

youngsters will consciously invest themselves and their considerable 

mental resources in what amounts to an oppositional culture to preserve 

themselves and their self-respect. Once they do, any respect they might be 

able to garner in the wider system pales in comparison with the respect 

available in the local system; thus they often lose interest in even 

attempting to negotiate the mainstream system.<P>

At the same time, many less alienated young blacks have assumed a 

street-oriented demeanor as a way of expressing their blackness while 

really embracing a much more moderate way of life; they, too, want a 

nonviolent setting in which to live and raise a family. These decent 

people are trying hard to be part of the mainstream culture, but the 

racism, real and perceived, that they encounter helps to legitimate the 

oppositional culture. And so on occasion they adopt street behavior. In 

fact, depending on the demands of the situation, many people in the 

community slip back and forth between decent and street behavior.<P>

A vicious cycle has thus been formed. The hopelessness and alienation many 

young inner-city black men and women feel, largely as a result of endemic 

joblessness and persistent racism, fuels the violence they engage in. This 

violence serves to confirm the negative feelings many whites and some 

middle-class blacks harbor toward the ghetto poor, further legitimating 

the oppositional culture and the code of the streets in the eyes of many 

poor young blacks. Unless this cycle is broken, attitudes on both sides 

will become increasingly entrenched, and the violence, which claims 

victims black and white, poor and affluent, will only 

escalate.<p>



<HR><P>



Elijah Anderson is the Charles and William Day Professor of the Social 

Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. His essay in this issue is 

based on research on violence and inner-city poverty funded by the 

Guggenheim Foundation. Anderson is the author of <I>Streetwise: Race, Class, 

and Change in an Urban Community</I> (1990).<P>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1990 by Elijah Anderson.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; May 1994; The Code of the Streets; Volume 273, 

No. 5; pages 80-94.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-7</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B041-125</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/environ/dams.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117194544 text/html 42492
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:45:17 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:50:04 GMT
Content-length: 42286
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Trouble With Dams

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>August 1995</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			The Trouble With Dams

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Robert S. Devine</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



							<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

 

<blockquote>





<i><font size=4>Some 100,000 dams regulate America's rivers and creeks, 

often at the expense of ecosystems--and of taxpayers, who are subsidizing 

handouts to a large number of farmers, floodplain occupants, 

hydro-electricity users, and river-transportation interests</i></font><p>





	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	



	

	<font size=5>S</font>EVERAL years ago I spent a spring day looking around Lower Granite Dam, a 

concrete behemoth that stifles the Snake River as it winds through hilly 

farm country in southeastern Washington. A burly workhorse, Lower Granite 

bears little resemblance to graceful Hoover Dam and the other poster boys 

of the realm of dams.<P>

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finished Lower Granite in 1975, making it 

one of the last monumental water projects completed in the United States. 

By 1980, after a fifty-year flurry of construction, the golden age of dam 

building was coming to an end, and with it most of society's interest in 

dams. But the impact of those dams didn't end in 1980: every day we live 

with their effects, both beneficial and destructive.<P>

When I looked upriver from Lower Granite, I saw a broad expanse of water 

extending up the canyon and out of sight. That water is the Snake River, 

of course, but it's also Lower Granite Lake. The Corps gave it that name 

after Lower Granite turned the thirty-three-mile stretch of river between 

itself and Lewiston, Idaho, into a reservoir. The new name conveys reality 

better than the old one; the nearly still water resembles a lake more 

closely than it does a river.<P>

When I looked downriver, I saw another wide, sluggish body of water. This 

Snake River reservoir also has another name: Lake Bryan. Lake Bryan 

stretches thirty-seven river miles west to the back of Little Goose Dam. 

Beyond Little Goose two more dams make two more lakes out of the final 

seventy miles of the Snake, down to its meeting with the mighty Columbia 

River. At this confluence the Columbia, too, bears a second name: Lake 

Wallula. Of the 600 miles of the Columbia between the dam nearest the 

ocean and the Canadian border, only forty-seven miles have not been 

transformed by dams from healthy river ecosystems to impoverished 

reservoirs.<P>

The extensive damming of the lower Snake and the Columbia is not 

exceptional. According to Arthur Walz, the chief of the Corps's 

Geotechnical and Materials Branch, slightly more than 100,000 dams 

regulate American rivers and creeks. Some 5,500 are more than fifty feet 

high. Nationwide, reservoirs have inundated an area equivalent to New 

Hampshire and Vermont combined. Of the major rivers in the Lower Forty

eight states ("major" meaning those more than 600 miles in length), only 

the Yellowstone still flows freely. "It's hard to find a river without a 

dam or one that hasn't been channelized," says Arthur Benke, a freshwater 

ecologist at the University of Alabama who has conducted widely cited 

research on the status of the nation's rivers. America is close to being 

the most dammed nation on earth, second only to China.<P>

Being the world leader in dams was a point of pride during the go-go years 

of dam building. Dams epitomized progress, Yankee ingenuity, and 

humankind's impending triumph over nature. According to a children's book 

from the 1960s, we need dams to make rivers "behave." A 1965 Bureau of 

Reclamation booklet summed up the prevailing philosophy: "Man serves God. 

But Nature serves Man." The very success of the dam-building crusade 

accounts in part for its decline; by 1980 nearly all the nation's good 

sites--and many dubious sites--had been dammed. But two other factors 

accounted for most of the decline: public resistance to the enormous cost 

and pork-barrel smell of many dams, and a developing public understanding 

of the profound environmental degradation that building dams can cause. 

Unfortunately, the fiscal mischief and environmental harm don't end when 

the construction of a dam ends; they just become harder to see.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>HELPING RIVER BARGES</B><P>



<font size=5>W</font>HILE being shown the Lower Granite lock by John McKern, a biologist with 

the Corps, I witnessed a minor but telling example of our tax dollars at 

work. A lone fourteen-foot pleasure craft motored into the eighty-six

foot-by-675-foot lock and tied up. The colossal gates closed, and the lock 

operator pumped in 43 million gallons of water to raise that little boat 

up to Lower Granite Lake--water that could have helped dying salmon 

survive, or could have generated enough electricity (about $700 worth) to 

supply an average house in the Northwest for one year. McKern said the 

lock operator tries to group boats together to reduce such prodigality, 

but usually that's not possible. Looking down on the boat, McKern shook 

his head and said, "It's crazy, isn't it?"<P>

Locks on the Columbia-Snake system were built not for pleasure boats, of 

course, but for commercial vessels, primarily grain barges. Though giving 

a pleasure boat a $700 boost seems extravagant, rendering the Columbia and 

the Snake navigable for barges costs taxpayers a great deal more: tens of 

millions of dollars a year in direct and indirect subsidies. Barge 

operators pay none of the dams' operation-and-maintenance costs, and until 

1981 made no contribution toward construction costs. Now users are 

supposed to foot half the bill for any new construction, but loopholes 

effectively lower bargers' share of the cost. Nationwide the Corps 

budgeted $786 million in fiscal year 1995 for inland waterways. Taxpayers 

will provide about $700 million of that, most of which benefits firms with 

deep pockets, such as those of Cargill, ConAgra, and Continental Grain. 

Some 80 percent of the barges that ply our inland waterways are owned by 

twenty bulk-commodity and shipping heavyweights, whose combined revenues 

exceeded $160 billion last year.<P>

Barging companies and their customers assert that the national interest is 

served by the subsidy, because it stimulates competition; in the absence 

of barges, surely the railroads, the other major transporters of bulk 

commodities, would heedlessly gouge their customers. David Forkenbrock, 

the director of the Public Policy Center at the University of Iowa, and an 

authority on inland transportation, doesn't buy this argument. He says, 

"To subsidize one mode of transportation so that another mode won't charge 

too much to the user is pretty perverse in terms of economic theory." 

Besides, Forkenbrock says, even if barges vanished and railroads did raise 

their rates, the amount of the price increase wouldn't begin to approach 

the amount of the subsidy.<P>

Forkenbrock sees the subsidy as a matter of simple avarice, abetted by 

Congress. He points to a 1992 proposal to reduce the subsidy: "That went 

over like a lead balloon in Congress, because states that benefit from 

cheap transportation objected strenuously, and water projects always have 

been pork-barrel efforts." Forkenbrock observes that the subsidy may soon 

rise. Some barging concerns are pressing Congress to fund the construction 

of bigger locks, which altogether would cost taxpayers billions. Lobbying 

by a coalition of river interests in the Ohio River system alone has 

secured more than $1.5 billion from Congress since 1986, nearly all of it 

earmarked for enlarging locks. Bargers say they need larger locks to ease 

the heavy traffic that is projected to occur during peak periods. 

Forkenbrock argues that barge traffic will be heavy only because it's 

subsidized. "If you charged a fair user fee to bargers, their competitive 

advantage would wither," he says. <P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE DOWNSIDE OF FLOOD CONTROL</B><P>



<font size=5>S</font>OME of the least-noticed subsidies occur in the name of flood control. 

According to data collected by the Federal Interagency Floodplain 

Management Task Force in 1992, flood-control expenditures from 1960 to 

1987 drained some $35-$40 billion from the U.S. Treasury. Much of that 

money was spent on storage dams, which waylay some of the down

rushing water during floods, and on levees, which are meant to shield 

particular sites from rising floodwaters. The Army Corps of Engineers 

built most of the multi-state projects in the early years of the flood

control program, which got rolling in 1917. More-recent projects typically 

serve much narrower interests, such as a few farmers, a small town, or 

developers who crave floodplain land. "In the nineteen fifties, sixties, 

and seventies projects got more and more local," says David Conrad, a water

resources specialist for the National Wildlife Federation. "Now virtually 

no new flood-control projects have interstate elements." Congress's 

appetite for flood-control spending might be curbed if members had to vote 

openly on their pet projects instead of being able to tuck them deep 

inside hefty omnibus bills.<P>

Another subsidy kicks in after floods occur. Taxpayers foot most of the 

bill for flood damage, in the form of disaster relief and subsidized 

federal insurance. But the very availability of government relief and 

insurance has caused costs to spiral. Before the government began bailing 

out flood victims, and before dams and levees promised protection, most 

people steered clear of floodplains. "No one built permanent structures on 

floodplains, because the risk was too great," says Scott Faber, the 

director of floodplain programs for American Rivers, a conservation group. 

"Flood insurance and flood relief have interfered with the normal 

functioning of the market." Operating in actuarial reality, private 

insurers refused to issue flood insurance. "That should have told us 

something," Faber says. Farms, factories, and subdivisions, backed by the 

government, have poured onto floodplains--and floods have thus caused 

increasingly great losses. Annual flood damage to property has almost 

tripled in constant dollars since 1951, and currently averages $3 billion 

a year. As a congressional report states, "Floods are an act of God. Flood 

damages result from acts of men." In 1968 and 1973 Congress passed 

legislation that set up the National Flood Insurance Program. It hoped to 

legislate greater responsibility on the part of floodplain 

occupants--building houses that are less vulnerable to flood damage, for 

example, or avoiding floodplain development altogether--but the law's 

provisions were widely ignored. Congress amended the program in 1994, 

adding some teeth to the enforcement provisions, but the program still 

falls short of ensuring that those who benefit from federal programs have 

made a serious effort to avoid flood damage.<P>

Disaster relief and insurance subsidies wouldn't be an issue if flood

control projects controlled floods--but often they don't, as the 

Mississippi River floods of 1993 so forcefully demonstrated. Before rivers 

were controlled by engineers, floodwaters spread out over floodplains, 

soaked in, and slowly drained back into the river. Now levees cut rivers 

off from their floodplains, sending floodwater down the straitjacketed 

main channel. The water flows unnaturally high and fast until it 

encounters a lower or weaker levee or an unprotected spot where it can 

burst from its confines. In many cases levees simply shift the site of 

flood damage. Jonathan Ela, a Mississippi River specialist for the Sierra 

Club, writes, "The touching pictures of volunteers placing sandbags on 

levees on either side of the Mississippi River in 1993 were essentially 

images of communities at war with each other." <P>

In addition to the usual post-flood demands for higher levees and more 

dams, the 1993 floods prompted a widespread interest in solutions that 

don't involve structures--solutions that also cost much less. Some 

breached levees may not be rebuilt, and some of the remaining levees may 

be moved farther back, in order to restore part of the floodplain. For the 

first time, substantial federal disaster funds are being used for the 

voluntary relocation of residences and businesses--more than 8,000 have 

been moved so far--rather than solely for rebuilding on the same flood

prone sites. "We've got this stock of older housing in the floodplain that 

gets repeatedly damaged," Faber says. "Texas, for example, got nailed 

again last fall. Texas gets nailed all the time. They have thousands and 

thousands of homes that have collected relief three or more times." 

According to the General Accounting Office, nearly half of the billions of 

dollars paid out under the National Flood Insurance Program has gone to 

repeat flood victims who make up a mere two percent of the 

policyholders.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>SUBSIDIZING IRRIGATION WATER</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>RRIGATORS receive perhaps the largest and most varied subsidies of all, 

though just how much money these amount to is a notoriously arcane matter, 

and the figure is often contorted to serve political goals. Some of the 

most reliable information comes from Richard Wahl, who was for many years 

a natural-resource economist with the Department of the Interior and who 

left the government in 1992 to become a research associate at the 

University of Colorado. Wahl and his colleague Benjamin Simon estimate 

that from 1902 to 1986 Bureau of Reclamation irrigation projects cost 

taxpayers close to $20 billion in 1986 dollars. (The BR builds and 

operates most of America's public irrigation dams.) Wahl and Simon believe 

that the federal irrigation subsidy for 1989 was about $2.2 billion.<P>

Most of this subsidy stems from the repayment deal enjoyed by irrigators. 

Their payments for BR water are supposed to reimburse the government for 

the irrigators' share of the initial capital expenses and for operation

and-maintenance costs. But repayments have been drastically reduced, by 

accounting stratagems and by congressional largesse--expressed most 

vividly by the fact that irrigators are exempt from paying interest. Wahl 

and Simon calculate that on average, BR irrigators end up paying only 12-

15 percent of the construction costs allocated to irrigation. <P>

Consider the example of Westlands Water District, in California--one of 

the nation's largest. Westlands irrigators pay $8-$31 for an acre foot of 

water (the amount that would cover an acre with one foot of water) from 

the BR's Central Valley Project, a $3.4 billion network of dams and 

canals. If the irrigators' repayment included interest at modest rates, 

that acre foot would cost them $61-$80. Even this so-called full-cost 

figure comes nowhere near market prices in the thirsty West. Many cities 

pay $200 an acre foot. Avocado farmers near San Diego pay $300-$400. Santa 

Barbara has built a desalinization plant that will provide converted 

seawater, should it be needed, at $2,000 an acre foot. And bear in mind 

that most other growers pay even less for BR water than do Westlands 

irrigators.<P>

Many in the irrigation community feel that they're just getting their fair 

share of the federal pie. Furthermore, they say, if their arrangement did 

constitute a subsidy (and many irrigators contend that it doesn't), the 

subsidy would be justified because irrigated agriculture has stimulated a 

great deal of economic activity and tax revenue. Irrigators also like to 

remind us of their essential product: "Water on the Farm Is Food on Your 

Table" reads the metered postage strip on mail sent from Westlands. 

Apparently our food supply would be imperiled should the irrigation 

subsidy be reduced. Don Upton, a Westlands spokesman, says that "a full

cost rate is not affordable" and would drive many farmers out of 

business.<P>

David Yardas, a water-resources analyst in the California office of the 

Environmental Defense Fund, disagrees. He asserts that only a few marginal 

operations would shut down, most of them on poor land that the BR never 

expected to be brought under cultivation in the first place. "There are 

many places in California," Yardas says, "where customers of the Central 

Valley Project are right across the road from farmers using the state 

project. The state guy may be paying forty dollars an acre foot, while the 

CVP guy is paying fourteen or eleven or eight dollars." Yet, Yardas says, 

the state farmers haven't gone out of business. Typically the subsidy 

represents a higher profit margin, not the margin of survival.<P>

Irrigation subsidies often contribute to the wasting of water, a major 

concern given that farmers account for 80--85 percent of the West's water 

consumption. For instance, earthen canals leak profusely, yet many 

irrigation districts haven't lined them; the subsidized water that seeps 

away is so cheap that losing water is less expensive than paying for 

lining. A great deal of water vanishes from fields. Instead of using 

advanced sprinkler systems, drip irrigation, or other frugal means of 

watering crops, many farmers still rely on inefficient sprinklers or even 

flood irrigation, surrendering a huge volume of water to evaporation and 

seepage. According to two government studies of irrigation conducted in 

the 1970s, such wasteful practices squander more than 20 million acre feet 

a year in the West--almost twice the average annual flow of the Colorado 

River. Furthermore, the availability of cheap water encourages farmers to 

lavish it on inappropriately thirsty crops. For example, Westlands is 

carved from a desert that gets only six or seven inches of rain a year, 

yet the district's biggest crop by far is cotton, a plant that guzzles 

more than thirty inches of water a year.<P>

Cotton figures in the controversy over the "double dip": the use of 

subsidized water to grow subsidized surplus crops. In addition to 

receiving Bureau of Reclamation water in some regions, cotton is almost 

always declared in surplus by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, making 

cotton growers eligible for certain USDA payments. Since the putative 

intent of the surplus-crop program is to scale back the production of 

crops that are overabundant, it seems perverse to stimulate production by 

allowing growers of surplus crops to use subsidized water. According to 

the USDA, farmers use about $85 million worth of subsidized water each 

year to grow surplus crops for which they also receive about $500 million 

from the USDA.<P>

Senator Russell Feingold, of Wisconsin, has railed against "paying people 

not to produce and then, with a different hand, paying them to produce." 

Feingold is the latest of many who have challenged the double dip. In 

February he introduced a bill that would either require users to pay full 

cost or eliminate the USDA portion of the subsidy. Feingold says that he 

has never heard a reasonable justification for the double dip from its 

supporters. When asked about it, "they don't respond, they just vote you 

down," he says. "They don't really want to talk about it." That's putting 

it mildly. During a phone interview with Congressman Bill Thomas, of 

California, whose Central Valley district includes major cotton producers, 

I broached the subject of the double dip. Angrily he cut off my question, 

asserting--incorrectly--that cotton is not commonly a surplus crop. He 

curtly added--again incorrectly--that farmers are required by law to pay 

full cost for federal water. He ignored my follow-up questions and then 

abruptly ended the conversation.<P>

Though the abrasiveness of Thomas's defense was extreme, it has long been 

common for congressmen to protect influential constituents' dam

related subsidies fiercely. But the budget-cutting fervor of the new 

Congress may change attitudes toward these subsidies. Members who have 

crowded aboard the budget-cutting bandwagon will look hypocritical if they 

"continue to pork it up," as Feingold puts it. Besides, some members of 

Congress, including a few on key budget committees, seem sincere in their 

desire to shrink the federal government and reduce the deficit. "Many 

items that had been sacrosanct . . . are now getting a new look," Feingold 

says. Still, Feingold and most other critics of dam-related subsidies 

remain skeptical. David Yardas sums up the prevailing perception: 

"Increasing attention is being paid to subsidies, but I don't know that 

that translates into a willingness to do very much about them."<P>

When tax dollars first started paying for dams, they frequently fit one 

dictionary definition of "subsidy": "a grant of money from a government to 

a private enterprise considered as beneficial to the public." For example, 

the Bureau of Reclamation began building irrigation dams in the early 

1900s to encourage small farmers to settle the West, a widely approved 

national goal. But now that California's population roughly equals that of 

New York and New England combined, and most of the benefits go to 

prosperous farmers, including many big agribusiness operations, irrigation 

subsidies are difficult to construe as being in the national interest. 

Most dam-related subsidies, too, have outlived their original 

rationales.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>DAMAGE TO THE ENVIRONMENT</B><P>



<font size=5>O</font>N the south side of the Lower Granite complex a Rube Goldberg apparatus 

of metal chutes and ladders angles from the top of the dam down to a dock 

a few hundred yards downriver. When I visited the dock that spring day 

several years ago, workers were loading a shipshape red-and-gray Corps 

barge. They had positioned a large pipe so that water from the apparatus 

poured into the hold of the vessel. The gushing water was filled with 

thousands upon thousands of silvery finger-length fish: young salmon, 

called smolts. In the spring smolts from innumerable spawning streams 

spill into the Snake and drift downriver, starting their anadromous life 

cycle by heading for the Pacific. At Lower Granite the Corps annually 

funnels, sorts, and pipes 6-9 million of these fish into barges. The 

barges haul the smolts hundreds of miles, past the seven additional dams 

that lie between the salmon and the sea, and dump them into the lower 

Columbia. The Corps calls this procedure "fish transportation."<P>

Whether transportation is the best way to help the salmon is arguable; 

many scientists think that barging kills more smolts than it saves. But no 

one questions the need to help the migrating fish. The dams have so 

transformed the river that, as one Idaho Fish and Game supervisor puts it, 

"sending them down the river would just be sending them to their death."<P>

Such transformations lie at the heart of the ongoing environmental harm 

done by dams. Rivers are rivers because they flow, and the nature of their 

flows defines much of their character. When dams alter flows, they alter 

the essence of rivers.<P>

Consider the erstwhile river behind Lower Granite. Although I was there in 

the springtime, when I looked at the water it was moving too slowly to 

merit the word "flow"--and Lower Granite Lake isn't even one of the 

region's enormous storage reservoirs, which bring currents to a virtual 

halt. In the past, spring snowmelt sent powerful currents down the Snake 

during April and May. Nowadays hydropower operators on the Columbia and 

Snake systems store the runoff behind the dams and release it during the 

winter, when demand--and the price--for electricity rises. Over the ages, 

however, many populations of salmon had adapted to the spring surge. The 

smolts used the strong flows to migrate, drifting downstream with the 

current. During the journey smolts' bodies undergo physiological changes 

that require them to reach salt water quickly. Before dams backed up the 

Snake, smolts coming down from Idaho got to the sea in six to twenty days; 

now it takes from sixty to ninety days, and few of the young salmon reach 

salt water in time. The emasculated current is the single largest reason 

that the number of wild adult salmon migrating up the Snake each year has 

crashed from predevelopment runs of 100,000

200,000 to what was projected to be 150-175 this year.<P>

One untested but promising alternative to barging, termed a drawdown, 

calls for dam operators to reduce the volume of water in several 

reservoirs before the main salmon migration. Full reservoirs sprawl far to 

the sides of the main channel. Currents dissipate in these virtual lakes 

the way a stream of water from a hose melts into a full swimming pool. If 

dam operators lower the reservoir levels, the water will contract to a 

more riverlike depth and breadth. If dams are drawn down just before the 

spring melt, the flows sweeping down from Idaho will presumably send 

smolts through the narrowed reservoirs relatively quickly. Another 

alternative to barging would be for dam operators to release much more 

water during the spring migration; the greater the volume of water that 

flows into a reservoir, the faster the current will move. This would leave 

less water for lucrative winter power production and lead to a rise in 

utility rates, but because they are generously subsidized, they would 

still be well below the national average. Even a modest rate increase 

could be offset by creative marketing. Northwest hydropower-plant 

operators could run water through their turbines in spring and early 

summer to help the salmon, and sell the electricity to southern California 

and the Southwest, where power fetches a good price during the 

air-conditioning season. In the winter, when demand for power in those 

areas slackens, the operators in southern California and the Southwest 

could sell electricity to the colder Northwest during its period of 

greatest need.<P>

In the Southeast the Ocoee River, which is managed by the Tennessee Valley 

Authority, offers an example of another flow problem. On certain days a 

stretch of the Ocoee roars along, a frothing wild thing beloved by 

white-water rafters. But on other days and at night TVA dam operators 

lower the gates and divert the river from that stretch to a flume that 

leads to a powerhouse, emptying the riverbed. A few other rivers across 

the nation are dried up by hydropower operations and irrigation 

withdrawals, and many more suffer from reduced flows. The effects on 

aquatic life are predictably severe.<P>

Keeping enough water in rivers is especially difficult in the arid West. 

Western water law in particular stifles reforms that would restore at 

least moderate in-stream flows. Formulated in the nineteenth century by 

miners, ranchers, and irrigators, the West's water laws reflect two hoary 

principles: "First in time, first in right" and "Beneficial use." The 

first principle means that whoever first claimed a certain amount of water 

always gets his share ahead of junior claimants--except that claims from 

Native Americans, who got there long before the pioneers, are rarely 

sustained.<P>

The second principle narrowly construes "Beneficial use" to mean 

consumption by agriculture, industry, or cities. In western-water-law 

doublespeak water thus used is "conserved," and water that flows down the 

river to the sea is "wasted." During the past couple of decades the water 

laws of most western states have reflected a growing understanding that 

water left in the stream for the welfare of the ecosystem is also 

beneficial. But the relatively recent legal recognition of the river 

ecosystem makes it a very junior claimant under the "First in time, first 

in right" doctrine, so rivers seldom are allowed to retain much water. 

Given that irrigators use 80-85 percent of the water available in the 

West, western water law clearly needs to be revised to provide more water 

to the environment and to the region's booming cities. As Congressman 

George Miller, of California, has said, "It is not the dead hand from the 

grave that should dictate water policy today."<P>

Bob Faber, the new staff director for the House Water and Power Resources 

Subcommittee, says that in some cases dams can solve the problem of low 

flows. This idea was echoed by the person to whom Faber reports: 

Congressman John Doolittle, of California, the new chair of the 

subcommittee and an influential dam booster from a district with 

considerable irrigation interests. Faber points out that certain uses of 

dams (irrigation comes to mind) require the release of ample, consistent 

amounts of water during times when some river flows are naturally low. He 

says this release improves the environmental health of those rivers: 

"Having adequate and predictable water supplies to provide in-stream flows 

is made possible only by dams. In the pre-dam era a lot of tributaries at 

times had low flows or went dry, but if they have dams above them, they 

now can maintain water flows at rates that weren't possible before."<P>

Faber misses the essential ecological point, however. Only low flows 

caused by dams or other human manipulation should be augmented. Natural 

low flows should be left low. Our industrial-society minds may associate 

constancy with productivity, but river animals and plants evolved to wild 

rhythms that include low flows, high flows, and everything in between. 

Native river organisms can survive such oscillations, and many can't 

survive without them. If rivers are to recover, regulated flows must mimic 

natural flows.<P>

Artificially regulated flows produce many specific problems. Without high 

flows, silt doesn't get flushed from streambed gravel, and the many 

species of fish and insects that need clean, well-oxygenated gravel for 

their eggs and larvae are harmed. Relatively constant flows often lead to 

relatively constant water temperatures, which affect the many species that 

rely on natural fluctuations in temperature. For example, the adults of a 

vital species of stone fly in the Flathead River in Montana don't emerge 

from their larval stage unless cued by mean daily water temperatures of 65 

Fahrenheit. Late-summer discharges from Hungry Horse Dam keep the water 

cooler than is natural, so whole generations of this insect never reach 

adulthood.<P>

Dams can alter water temperatures in other deleterious ways. In most 

places irrigation water is stored until summer. This creates unnaturally 

shallow flows below dams at other times of the year, which in turn causes 

the water to become abnormally warm. As the water warms, it loses oxygen, 

and river organisms begin dying. By the same token, flows are unnaturally 

deep and therefore abnormally cold during the summer.<P>

Another common problem occurs when dams release water that is 

significantly colder or warmer than the river water. For example, releases 

from Glen Canyon Dam render the Colorado River too cold--some 20 degrees 

colder than is natural--for most native organisms for more than 250 miles 

downstream. "The river is essentially dead," says Jack Stanford, a 

professor of ecology and the director of the University of Montana's 

Flathead Lake Biological Station. Except for one twelve-mile stretch, the 

river below the dam has lost its ability to support algae, which in turn 

has led to the collapse of the river's food web. "You can put a drift net 

in the river for fifteen minutes and catch one or two insects," Stanford 

says. In a pristine Colorado one would expect to net hundreds, thousands, 

or even tens of thousands. The cumulative impact of disrupted temperatures 

can be dramatic. A study of the Saskatchewan River found that insects from 

thirty families inhabited a pristine stretch, but insects from only one 

family survived in a section below a dam. Temperature problems can be 

mitigated by retrofitting dams with selective water-withdrawal systems. 

These give dam operators the option of releasing water from whichever 

stratum of the reservoir best matches the temperature of the water 

downriver. Hungry Horse Dam, for example, is undergoing this expensive 

process and by next year should be providing stone flies with the 

temperatures they need.<P>

Dams not only disrupt the flow of water; they also virtually cut off the 

flow of sediment. When the current dissipates in the reservoir, its load 

of suspended particles sinks to the bottom, trapped for the life of the 

dam. Very little slips by a large dam. Studies show that Glen Canyon Dam 

captures 99.5 percent of the sediment tumbling down the Colorado. The 

trapped sediment includes organic matter, which is vital to downriver food 

webs. Sandbars where plants have grown in and alongside a river-

important wildlife habitat--constantly erode; without sediment with which 

to rebuild, they soon vanish. The same holds for riverbanks.<P>

The loss of replacement sediment also leads to the lowering of the 

riverbed, which harms the riparian zone--the land along a river that 

derives its character from the river. As the channel deepens and the 

elevation of the river drops, the water table beneath the riparian areas 

drops correspondingly. This dries up those lush, elongated oases that are 

such important havens for wildlife--and for human beings.<P>

Cottonwoods, for example, need high groundwater levels. The demise of 

these riverside staples robs the stream of shade, which can lead to 

lethally high water temperatures; causes excessive erosion, because the 

stabilizing influence of the trees' roots is gone; and deprives the fungi 

and bacteria at the foundation of the aquatic food web of the nutrients 

provided by cottonwood leaves, a crucial food source.<P>

Even lands far from dams are affected by a radical decline in transported 

sediment. Without replacement sediment from the Mississippi River, much of 

the Louisiana coast has sunk below sea level, allowing a disastrous 

intrusion of salt water. The Army Corps of Engineers estimates that during 

the next fifty years parts of the Gulf shoreline will advance as much as 

another thirty miles inland and an additional million acres of coastal 

wetlands will sink from sight. In addition to the many other benefits they 

bring, these wetlands are integral to almost half of the nation's shrimp 

harvest.<P>

Though researchers have discovered numerous examples of environmental 

disruption caused by dams, they realize that they have barely scratched 

the surface. The cliche is apt, because little of what goes on below the 

surface of rivers has penetrated the landlocked biases of Homo sapiens. 

The studies that have been done indicate that dams have been disastrous 

for river ecosystems. Larry Master, the chief zoologist of The Nature 

Conservancy, says, "Dams have been the dominant factor in the decline of 

aquatic fauna in this country." He goes on to characterize the current 

health of America's aquatic fauna as "appalling." Master's judgment 

carries particular weight, because he has led the most comprehensive study 

to date on the status of the nation's freshwater animals.<P>

So far Master and his colleagues have studied four broad groups of river 

fauna and have found that all are in trouble: about 20 percent of 

dragonfly species, 36 percent of fishes, 64 percent of crayfish, and 67 

percent of freshwater mussels are either extinct, imperiled, or 

vulnerable. Embattled though they are, terrestrial fauna are faring 

comparatively well: 14 percent of birds and 16 percent of mammals are 

extinct, imperiled, or vulnerable by Master's standards. David Allan, an 

aquatic ecologist at the University of Michigan, observes that many 

species not yet officially endangered are in decline--some to the point at 

which the functioning of their river ecosystems is substantially altered. 

There is also evidence that the rate of decline is accelerating. Research 

by the American Fisheries Society suggests that the rate of extinction for 

North American fish species has doubled during the past century. From 1979 

to 1989 the AFS added 139 species and subspecies of fish to its list of 

rare and vanishing fishes of North America and removed only 

twenty-six--sixteen owing to technical adjustments, ten because they had 

gone extinct, and none because they had recovered.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE DEMOLITION OPTION</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>S there such a thing as a good dam? That's a legitimate question, given 

the myriad environmental and fiscal problems that dams cause. I asked 

Larry Stephens, the executive director of the United States Committee on 

Large Dams, an industry group, to name some good dams, which I broadly 

defined as dams whose benefits clearly outweigh their monetary and 

environmental costs. Quickly he cited Hoover Dam and Grand Coulee, and 

then he paused. Finally he said that of course there were others but they 

just didn't come to mind. Undoubtedly other good dams do exist, but it is 

revealing that of the 5,500 large dams in America, only two stood out 

immediately. Equally telling is the fact that Hoover and Grand Coulee were 

completed in 1936 and 1941 respectively, which supports the widespread 

belief that the best sites were used long ago. The U.S. Geological Survey 

has quantified one aspect of the decline in the quality of sites: the 

amount of reservoir capacity created by each cubic foot of dam plummeted 

from 10.4 acre feet for dams built prior to 1930 to 2.1 acre feet for 

those built in the 1930s and to 0.29 acre feet for those built in the 

1960s.<P>

In retrospect, it seems that a number of dams should never have been 

built. But they were, and they aren't going away anytime soon--at least 

not many of them. Some egregiously harmful dams that lack influential 

constituencies may be demolished. Numerous government agencies, Native 

American tribes, and conservation groups hope to remove two dams from the 

Elwha River, in Washington, one inside Olympic National Park. But 

demolition isn't an option in most cases. For one thing, communities and 

industries are too closely tied to most dams. For another, removing just 

the two Elwha dams--one is 210 feet high and the other is 100 feet--will 

cost about $70 million. Omitting the expense of removal from financial 

calculations constitutes yet another big subsidy. All those aging dams are 

a fiscal time bomb of many megatons.<P>

Where the demolition of dams won't do the job, we'll have to settle for 

wise management. Most current practices and policies still hark back to 

the go-go era and even beyond--to pioneer days. But tremors of reform have 

been felt in recent years, and the time seems ripe for a major shake-up. 

<P>

Ironically, if water policy gets dragged kicking and screaming into the 

age of limits, we'll probably find that we have more than enough water to 

go around. For one thing, we squander so much that following through on 

just the easiest conservation measures would save vast amounts of water. 

One study estimated that in the West a seven percent reduction in the 

share used by agriculture (halving irrigation waste would accomplish that 

goal) would allow a 100 percent rise in all other uses. For another thing, 

the more than 100,000 dams already out there provide an awful lot of 

available water.<P>

Should we ever build another dam? Sure. Sometimes, in some places, some 

kinds of dams will make sense. But when you hear calls for more dams 

because of global warming, the depletion of oil reserves, a trend toward a 

drier climate, or the latest flood, think twice: once about your tax 

dollars and once about your environment.<P>

<BR>

<HR>

<P>



Robert S.  Devine is a freelance writer whose articles have appeared in 

<I>Sierra</I>, <I>Audubon</I>, and <I>Wilderness</I>.  He is writing a book 

about dams.<P>



		

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1995 by The Atlantic Monthly.  All rights reserved.  <br>



The Atlantic Monthly; August 1995; The Trouble With Dams; Volume 276, No.  

2; pages 64-74.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-8</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B038-236</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/larsgun.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117192735 text/html 101312
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:27:13 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:11:10 GMT
Content-length: 101105
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Story of a Gun by Erik Larson

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>January 1993</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			The Story of a Gun

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Erik Larson</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote> 



	<i><font size=4>After 60,000 deaths from firearms use over the past two years, America is 

in a gun crisis. Yet gun laws remain weak, gunmakers continue to promote 

killing power, and gun dealers accept no responsibility for the criminal 

use of what they sell.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>O</font>n December 16, 1988, Nicholas Elliot, barely sixteen, walked into the 

Atlantic Shores Christian School, in Virginia Beach, Virginia, with a semi

automatic handgun hidden in his backpack. By midmorning a forty-one

year-old teacher had been shot dead, and another teacher, struck by two 

nine-millimeter bullets, was extraordinarily lucky to be alive. Two other 

teachers narrowly escaped Nicholas Elliot's bullets. One found herself 

running a zigzag pattern through the school yard as Nicholas fired round 

after round at her back. The other, a man who tackled Nicholas and in the 

process saved the lives of a roomful of crying and praying teenagers, felt 

a bullet breeze past his head.<P>



In a nation accustomed to multiple murders, the shootings received little 

out-of-state coverage. But the story of how Nicholas wound up firing away 

on the grounds of a peaceful suburban school says a great deal about 

America's gun crisis. Nicholas in effect carried with him the good wishes 

of a gun culture whose institutions and mores have helped make commonplace 

in America the things he did that morning.<P>



A none-of-my-business attitude permeates the firearms distribution chain 

from production to final sale, allowing gunmakers and gun marketers to 

promote the killing power of their weapons while disavowing any 

responsibility for their use in crime. Nicholas carried a gun that should 

never by any reasonable standard have been a mass-market product. He 

acquired the gun from a federally licensed dealer, using a means that puts 

thousands of guns into the hands of illegal users each year, yet that 

existing federal gun-trade regulations do much to encourage. His story 

describes a de facto conspiracy of gun dealers, manufacturers, marketers, 

writers, and federal regulators which makes guns--ever more powerful 

guns, and laser sights, silencer-ready barrels, folding stocks, exploding 

bullets, and flame-thrower shotgun rounds--all too easy to come by and 

virtually assures their eventual use in the bedrooms, alleys, and school 

yards of America.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>I</font> am not opposed to guns per se, not even handguns, provided that the 

owners acknowledge the responsibility conferred by ownership. When I see 

rural road signs perforated with large-diameter holes, I realize that this 

responsibility is not universally acknowledged. I routinely ask the 

parents of my daughters' playmates if they own guns and, if so, how they 

store them. If they store them loaded, even in a locked cabinet, my 

children do not play at their homes. I can appreciate the lethal appeal of 

weapons and the fine craftsmanship evident in such premium handguns as the 

Colt Python and, yes, the Smith & Wesson Model 29 used by Dirty Harry. 

When I go to gun shows, as I do in my new capacity as a federally licensed 

firearms dealer, I am drawn, as are most of the browsers around me, to the 

guns spread so invitingly across the exhibitors' tables--especially the 

notorious weapons, the AK-47s, Mac-lls, and pistol-grip Mossbergs. I 

recognize, too, that membership in America's gun culture occurs along a 

continuum, from collectors who buy non-firing replicas to inner-city 

gunslingers willing to kill for a fancy jacket.<P>



In writing this article I deliberately avoided including the predictably 

angry voices of traditional pro- and anti-gun forces, such as the National 

Rifle Association and the Violence Policy Center, in Washington, D.C., 

which occupy opposing poles in the debate. Where my views run counter to 

those of the NRA is in my belief that people should be allowed to acquire 

guns only after going through procedures at least as rigorous as those 

involved in getting a driver's license. As the laws are now written, a 

blind man can buy a gun.<P>



America is currently in the midst of a gun crisis that can no longer be 

considered just a manifestation of the pioneer spirit; instead, it has 

become a costly global embarrassment. That a crisis does exist should be 

well beyond dispute by now, given the bleak statistics on gunshot death 

and damage--yet these statistics, capable of kindling outrage in a stone, 

have failed to impress America's gun industry and the gun culture that 

supports it.<P>



Over the past two years firearms have killed 60,000 Americans, more than 

the number of U.S. soldiers killed in the Vietnam War. Handguns account 

for 22,000 deaths a year. In 1991, well before the Los Angeles riots, the 

guns of Los Angeles County alone killed or wounded 8,050--thirteen times 

the number of U.S. casualties in the Persian Gulf War, according to a 

survey by the Los Angeles Times. Handguns terrorize far more people than 

they kill: Department of Justice statistics show that every twenty-four 

hours handgun-wielding assailants rape thirty-three women, rob 575 people, 

and assault another 1,116.<P>



A relatively new phenomenon, originating in the 1980s, is the appearance 

of young children on the list of urban gunshot casualties. In 1987 a team 

of researchers from the UCLA School of Medicine and King/Drew Medical 

Center in Los Angeles found that King/Drew hadn't admitted a single child 

under ten for gunshot wounds before 1980. From 1980 to 1987 the center 

admitted thirty-four. The study, published in the American Journal of 

Diseases of Children, included a macabre table of wounds and complications 

which hinted at the true horror of gunshot injuries--a horror spared us in 

daily news coverage, which devotes little space to the merely wounded. A 

five-year-old lost a hand. A three-year-old, shot in the rectum, endured a 

colostomy. Other children on the list lost fingers, eyes, and brain 

tissue; at least one--an eight-year-old girl--was consigned to an 

institution for the rest of her life. These children were shot by 

grandfathers, cousins, friends, robbers, snipers, and--in a particularly 

cruel twist--by gang members seeking only to exact revenge on an elder 

sibling.<P>



Despite the carnage, guns continue to proliferate. The nation began arming 

itself in earnest in the roaring sixties, amid race riots and 

assassinations. From 1967 to 1968, the two most tumultuous years, the 

number of handguns made available for sale to civilians in the United 

States rose by 50 percent--some 802,000 pistols and revolvers--to 2.4 

million, the greatest single annual leap in American history. As of 1989 

there were 66.7 million handguns (and 200 million firearms of all kinds) 

in circulation in the United States.<P>



If these guns were controlled by a legion of sober adults, we'd have far 

less to worry about. One study of 11,000 teenagers in ten states found 

that 41 percent of the boys and 21 percent of the girls said they could 

obtain a handgun whenever they wished. A University of North Carolina 

study of adolescents in suburban and rural communities in the Southeast 

found that nine percent of the boys actually owned a handgun, despite 

federal laws prohibiting anyone under twenty-one from buying one. Boys 

typically received their first firearm--usually a shotgun or a rifle, but 

seven percent of the time a handgun--at the age of twelve and a half, but 

more than a fifth of this juvenile militia received their first guns 

around the age of ten.<P>



Increasingly, you don't need to own a gun or be the intended target of 

someone else's gun to get shot. As guns have proliferated, the rate at 

which bystanders are wounded and killed has soared. In 1985 stray bullets 

killed four New Yorkers; in 1990 they killed forty.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>G</font>un merchants and hobbyists steadfastly protest that guns aren't the 

problem and that even if they were, gun ownership is explicitly endorsed 

by the Second Amendment to the Constitution--the much cited right-to

bear-arms clause--and is therefore as much a part of the American way as, 

say, voting. A comparison of international homicide statistics proves that 

guns do indeed set America apart from the rest of the developed world.<P>



In 1987 America's civilian guns were used to murder 3,187 young men aged 

fifteen to twenty-four, accounting for three fourths of the annual 

homicide rate of 21.9 per 100,000 people.<P>



In Canada only seventeen young men were murdered with firearms, for an 

overall rate of 2.9 per 100,000.<P>



In Japan, with 0.5 homicides per 100,000 people, gunshot homicides totaled 

eight--as many as New York City police officers encounter on a single 

robust weekend.<P>



Mounting evidence suggests that the mere presence of a gun can lead to 

injury or death. An especially damning kind of data is just now becoming 

available and is certain to make its way into some of the growing number 

of lawsuits that seek to make the gun industry accountable for firearms 

injuries and deaths. In 1989, rather late in the computer revolution, the 

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) was finally able to say 

which gun manufacturers turned up most often in trace requests. The 

company whose handguns were traced most often from January of 1990 to 

December of 1991 was the giant Smith & Wesson.<P>



However, when the frequency of traces is considered in proportion to each 

company's production, a tiny Atlanta company, S. W. Daniel, Inc., shows a 

tracing rate far higher. By 1989 S. W. Daniel had produced some 60,500 

handguns and an untold number of accessories, including silencers and 

machine-gun kits. Among the guns it produced was Nicholas Elliot's weapon, 

the Cobray M-l1/9, which it fondly advertised as "The gun that made the 

80s roar."<P>



Condemned by the police, reviled even by those who sell it, the gun has 

been remarkably controversial ever since its creation as a cheap, reliable 

submachine gun meant specifically for close military combat. How that gun 

went on to become a readily available consumer product--something S. W. 

Daniel once even gave away free in a monthly contest--provides a clear 

example of the culture of nonresponsibility prevailing in America's 

firearms industry; it is but one example of how this commercial ethos 

governed the gun's progress from conception to its use as a murder weapon 

in a Virginia Beach classroom.<P>



"The reality that bothers me is there is no self-control, no 

self-policing, in the gun industry itself," says Colonel Leonard Supenski, 

of the Baltimore County Police Department, a nationally recognized 

firearms expert who early last year testified in a pathbreaking liability 

suit stemming from Nicholas Elliot's rampage. "The premise seems to be 

that if they've got the right to do something, then that's the right thing 

to do."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE GUN</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>he Baltimore county police shooting range occupies a wooded compound just 

north of Towson, Maryland, where the six-lane strip roads of Baltimore 

taper to rolling two-lane highways. When I visited there recently, I heard 

firing the moment I stepped from my car--a sound something like what you'd 

get if you put a stethoscope beside a cooking package of microwave 

popcorn. The range was carved from a hillock, leaving a plane half the 

size of a football field bordered on one end by an earthen cliff that 

keeps stray rounds from bounding north into Baltimore County horse 

country. Supenski arrived carrying a gray attache case, and led me onto 

the range.<P>



Supenski is a big fan of guns and shooting. "I grew up in the era of the B 

westerns," he told me. "Loved them, still love them. My single most prized 

possession is an original Colt single-action 'cowboy' gun. Nickel-plated, 

hand-engraved, ivory stock."<P>



But he also believes in more-stringent controls to force a heightened 

level of responsibility in the sale and use of firearms. This has not won 

him many friends among the gunslingers of America. One pro-gun group twice 

threatened to kill him, prompting a mischievous female assistant to don a 

bulletproof vest one afternoon before joining him for lunch. His is a 

pragmatic stance. He worries that irresponsible behavior by gun dealers, 

manufacturers, and the NRA may soon lead to controls far more restrictive 

than the simple regulations now sought by proponents of moderate gun 

control.<P>



He considers the Cobray pistol made by S. W. Daniel, and the means by 

which Nicholas Elliot came to own it, a case study of irresponsibility in 

the gun marketplace, and testified to that effect in the liability suit. 

The Cobray pistol, he argues, serves no useful purpose--certainly none of 

the purposes traditionally cited by the gun camp when opposing new 

controls. It's not a hunting gun: most states limit magazine capacity for 

hunting to three to five rounds, and the Cobray carries thirty-two. 

Moreover, most states require that hunters use a far higher caliber. The 

gun would never satisfy a target shooter: it is heavy, clumsy, and prone 

to rock up and down when fired, and its two-inch barrel makes it painfully 

inaccurate. Nor is it desirable for self-defense. "About the only thing 

you can do with it," Supenski says, "is hold it someplace in front of you, 

pull the trigger as fast as you can, put as many bullets out as you can, 

and hope like hell they'll hit something. Now, that may be nice on a 

battlefield. It isn't so nice in an urban environment, where that bullet 

may go through your bedroom into your child's bedroom or into your 

neighbor's bedroom, or may go outside and kill a passerby."<P>



Supenski opened his attache case. Inside, against a thick layer of foam, 

was a Cobray pistol confiscated during an arrest, and a slender gray 

magazine packed with brass nine-millimeter cartridges.<P>



I picked the gun up. It was a dull black, with none of the gleaming 

machined beauty of more expensive weapons. To picture it, imagine a black 

steel ingot with a pistol grip jutting from the center of its bottom face-

not the rear, as in most pistols--and a stubby barrel protruding from the 

front.<P>



It was undeniably if darkly appealing in its lethality. It was heavy, 

about the weight of a newborn baby, and it was cold. Its grip had none of 

the close-fitting contours of more costly guns, like the Smith & Wesson 

nine

millimeter that Supenski himself carried.<P>



I held the Cobray out in front of me with one hand and tried to line up 

the sights. My wrist sagged under its weight. It looked evil, a Darth 

Vader among guns.<P>



Its reputation matches the look. A 1989 study by the Cox Newspapers found 

that the pistol ranked fourth among assault guns most often traced by the 

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. A study of all guns confiscated 

in Detroit from January of 1989 through April of 1990 put the Cobray first 

among assault guns, fifth among all models--higher in the rankings than 

guns made by Beretta, whose production dwarfs that of the entire S. W. 

Daniel company. The head of the ATF's Atlanta office estimates that his 

agents conduct twenty to thirty traces involving S. W. Daniel guns each 

month.<P>



The Cobray and its ancestors became the favorites of drug gangs nationwide 

in the 1980s. A variant on it was used by the Order, a neo-Nazi group, to 

kill the Denver talk-show host Alan Berg. Joseph T. Wesbecker, the man who 

walked into a Louisville, Kentucky, printing plant in 1989 and murdered 

eight people with an AK-47, had packed two Cobrays in the gym bag he 

carried with him to the plant.<P>



In February of 1990 the gun came up for review by Maryland's Handgun 

Roster Board, a body created by legislation whose purpose is to restrict 

the sale of "Saturday-night specials." Cornelius J. Behan, the chief of 

the Baltimore County police and a member of the board, found himself 

forced by the law's strict guidelines to vote to approve the gun for sale 

in Maryland, but he told the board, "It's a terrible killing 

instrument."<P>



The gun's direct lineage begins in the 1960s, when Gordon Ingram, an 

engineer and gunsmith, set out to design a submachine gun specifically for 

use by Latin American guerrillas. One of Ingram's friends, a Peruvian 

emigre hard at work illegally making submachine guns for anti-Castro 

exiles training in Costa Rica, told Ingram, in the words of Thomas Nelson, 

a respected machine-gun historian, that what his guerrilla clients most 

wanted in a combat weapon was "small size, to facilitate concealment; 

sound suppression, to deter detection; and low cost."<P>



A note here on terminology: A machine gun fires rifle-caliber bullets; a 

submachine gun fires pistol-calibers. Both are fully automatic, or "full

auto," weapons, meaning that they continue to fire for as long as you pull 

the trigger. A semi-automatic fires one round per pull. That the term 

"automatic" is sometimes applied to a pistol like the Colt Army .45 

confuses the issue. In this usage it is short for "automatic reloading," 

which means the gun uses the explosive force of each cartridge to load and 

cock itself after each shot. Such pistols are in fact semi-automatics.<P>



Ingram succeeded in developing a combat weapon, his M-10, with an 

astonishing rate of fire of more than 1,000 rounds per minute, or sixteen 

per second--too fast to control, according to technical experts at the 

ATF, and thus of little value for anything but mow-'em-down military use. 

Ingram and a partner, Mitchell L. WerBell III, a soldier of fortune who 

founded a paramilitary training camp outside Atlanta, formed a new 

company, Military Armament Corporation, to bring the gun to market. They 

developed plans to build two models of Ingram's gun: for military markets, 

the full-auto submachine gun, whose sales would be tightly controlled by 

the National Firearms Act, which requires that anyone wishing to buy a 

machine gun first submit to an extensive background check; and for 

consumers, a semi-automatic version.<P>



The gun's formal name became the MAC-10, although gun aficionados would 

soon come to know it simply as "the Ingram." It attracted minimal interest 

from the U.S. military, but its speed and evil good looks captured the 

imagination of Hollywood. In 1974, in the movie McQ, John Wayne himself 

gave the company a welcome burst of publicity, in the process turning the 

gun from an obscure novelty into a weapon coveted by gangs and drug rings 

across the nation. Big Lon McQ, a Seattle police detective played by 

Wayne, visits the shop of a gun dealer he knows and is invited to "squeeze 

off a burst" with a brand-new weapon. With obvious reverence the dealer 

calls it "the Ingram."<P>



McQ blasts away, rupturing a trash can filled with water. The camera cuts 

to McQ's face, his expression one of bemused awe. McQ looks down at the 

gun. He looks back at the pail.<P>



"How about that?" the dealer says. "Those thirty-two slugs came out in a 

second and a half."<P>



Ruggedly, slowly, McQ says, "Yeah."<P>



"You ever see anything like it?" the dealer asks.<P>



Just in case anyone in the audience had any doubt about where to buy this 

wondrous weapon, Warner Brothers provided a full-screen credit that read 

"Special Weapon: Military Armament Corp."<P>



This enthusiastic bit of advertising wasn't enough to save the company, 

however. It filed for Chapter 11 protection under federal bankruptcy laws 

in mid-1975, without ever having produced a consumer Ingram. Its guns and 

other assets were sold at auction, mostly to a group of three investors 

who had formed another Atlanta company, RPB Industries. They, too, planned 

to bring Ingram's weapons to full-scale production, but in 1978 sold out 

to yet another group of investors, this one headed by Wayne Daniel, the 

son of a Georgia minister.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE INGRAM GOES PUBLIC</B><P>



<font size=5>U</font>nder its new managers RPB had more success selling the Ingram line to 

foreign governments, but domestically it faced a set of daunting business 

obstacles. One partner was convicted of bribing a prosecutor to drop a 

customer's drug charge. Two others, Robert Morgan and Jack Leibolt, were 

involved in the narcotics-smuggling operations of Pablo Escobar-Gaviria 

and the Medellin cartel. In 1980 Morgan was sentenced to thirty years in 

prison for smuggling two tons of marijuana into Florida. Leibolt, 

according to a sweeping 1989 indictment of Escobar, once piloted a plane 

for the cartel and, in September of 1979, supplied the group with six 

silencer

equipped machine guns. (He pled guilty in August of 1990 to conspiracy to 

import cocaine.)<P>



Despite all this, RPB succeeded in at last transforming the Ingram from a 

limited-circulation military weapon into a semi-automatic handgun for 

general use. "It became available everywhere," says Earl Taylor, a twenty

one-year veteran of the ATF and now a vice-president of Norred and 

Associates, an Atlanta security concern that counts among its many 

assignments the protection of Colonel Oliver North. "All gun shops 

everywhere were selling it. Everywhere."<P>



The gun proved easy to convert to fully automatic operation--so easy that 

even inexperienced gun owners could make the change in a matter of 

minutes, using only a file. Demand for the gun soared nationwide, and 

black markets formed as middlemen, including one Georgia policeman, bought 

large quantities, converted the guns, and resold them to the drug 

underworld.<P>



In October of 1981 Wayne Daniel married Sylvia Williams, a striking young 

woman from Alabama. The next month she became a member of RPB's board of 

directors. She would soon prove to be a feisty, outspoken opponent of the 

ATF.<P>



Relations between the company and the ATF and other law-enforcement 

agencies deteriorated throughout 1981 and 1982. The Georgia Bureau of 

Investigation and the FBI began an intensive hunt for Jack Leibolt, who, 

according to minutes of an RPB board meeting, had gone "underground." 

Citing Leibolt's activities, the ATF threatened to pull RPB's firearms

manufacturer's license. Moreover, the agency persuaded a federal judge 

that the RPB semi-automatic handgun, so easy to convert to fully automatic 

operation, was a machine gun and should be made subject to the strict 

registration provisions of the National Firearms Act.<P>



To sever his ties to Leibolt, Wayne Daniel in October of 1982 liquidated 

the company. An auction house sold its assets for half a million 

dollars.<P>



A reasonable person might expect that at this point the MAC-10 would have 

been allowed to disappear from America's arsenal and consigned to Thomas 

Nelson's history books. But RPB Industries rose quickly from the tomb, 

this time as S. W. Daniel, Inc., named for Sylvia Williams Daniel. After 

the ATF's ruling, the Daniels set out in earnest to develop a weapon that 

could be sold readily to the public. They succeeded--introducing by 1983 

the Cobray M-11/9--but nonetheless continued sending prototype after 

prototype to the ATF's technical branch in Washington, as if probing for 

holes in the law. Once, for example, they sent a prototype of what they 

claimed was a single-shot weapon. It was the same weapon that the judge 

had ruled was a machine gun, but with a plate over the bottom of the grip 

where the clip would otherwise be inserted. The ATF, however, found that 

the plate could be removed, and classified this weapon, too, as a machine 

gun.<P>



The company also sold machine-gun "flats," stamped and notched pieces of 

steel that could be bent to form the frame, or "lower receiver," of a 

machine gun. Under federal law a machine-gun receiver is treated as if it 

were a complete firearm. The flats were legal--provided that certain holes 

were left undrilled. The Daniels sold their flats legally. All a consumer 

had to do to commit an instant felony was to drill out a single hole--but 

that was the consumer's problem.<P>



Referring to Wayne Daniel, Earl Taylor says, "He'll come close to the edge 

of the envelope--maybe not blatantly doing something illegal, but he's 

very anxious to test and see how far he can go in the weapons field."<P>



This attitude, Taylor believes, was a marketing posture that made the 

Daniels' products all the more attractive to gun buyers. Wayne Daniel, he 

says, "can kind of feel the pulse of this gun culture out there and kind 

of say things and do things and market things that appeal to those 

people."<P>



One episode in particular illustrates the lengths to which the company was 

willing to go. In January of 1983 the Daniels invited two men, Joseph 

Ledbetter and James Travis Motes, to their home to make the men a 

proposition. Ledbetter and Motes had installed air-conditioning in the RPB 

offices and electrical wiring in the S. W. Daniel headquarters. The 

Daniels suggested that they diversify into the business of making the 

outer tubes for silencers. S. W. Daniel would make the internal parts. The 

two companies would advertise in the same gun publications and travel to 

the same gun shows. By selling only parts, both would stay on the right 

side of federal law requiring registration of completed silencers. Indeed, 

no law barred the sale of silencer parts. In the eyes of the law, however, 

any consumer who merely took delivery of both internal parts and tubes 

would automatically possess a completed silencer--a felony if the silencer 

was unregistered. But again, that was the consumer's worry.<P>



Wayne Daniel went so far as to give Ledbetter and Motes a gauge to guide 

them in fashioning the tubes, and an advertising layout that S. W. Daniel 

had used earlier to sell a line of completed registered silencers to 

approved buyers through Shotgun News, a thick tabloid often referred to as 

the gun owner's bible.<P>



Ledbetter and Motes founded L&M Guns and began selling their tubes through 

Shotgun News and at gun shows around the country. The Daniels, meanwhile, 

began advertising their internal-parts kits and displaying them at the 

same gun shows. On at least one occasion the two companies found 

themselves facing each other across an aisle.<P>



The ATF began an investigation after a detective with the Mono County, 

California, sheriff's office discovered an unregistered silencer during a 

search. The investigation quickly gained momentum. At one point an ATF 

special agent, Peter Urrea, posed as the president of the Widow Makers 

Motorcycle Club and ordered silencer components from L&M Guns. He also 

said he had a criminal record. The components were sent, no questions 

asked.<P>



The investigation widened to include machine-gun flats sold by S. W. 

Daniel and L&M. Urrea continued buying silencer parts and machine-gun kits 

from S. W. Daniel, L&M, and a third company, La Vista Armaments, of 

Louisville, Kentucky, and won a warrant to search S. W. Daniel 

headquarters. On July 19, 1984, ATF agents raided the company, seizing 

firearms, components, and, most important, customer lists and shipping 

records.<P>



The ATF used the seized records to launch some 400 individual 

investigations relating to arms trafficking and illegal possession of 

restricted weapons. In June of 1985 ATF agents arrested the Daniels and, 

using an experimental tactic, charged them with conspiracy to sell illegal 

silencers. (By now the Daniels had divorced, but they had continued to 

have a close working relationship.) Later, in formal court arguments, they 

would claim that they were simply trying to fill a valid need for 

replacement parts for silencers owned by legitimate users.<P>



The ATF's investigators found a rather different story. All in all, from 

November of 1983 to July of 1984, the government charged, S. W. Daniel had 

mailed some 6,000 silencer and machine-gun kits. Only four buyers had 

bothered to register the devices. When the ATF ran the customer lists 

through the FBI's National Crime Information Center databank, it found 

that more than fifty customers had prior criminal records or were believed 

to be involved in drug peddling and other forms of organized crime. Posing 

as IRA gunrunners, Mexican narcotics smugglers, and assorted 

ne'er-do-wells, undercover ATF agents were welcomed by international arms 

traffickers, narcotics smugglers, and assorted ne'er

do-wells, among them a New York group that accepted an order for some 

$15.6 million worth of silencer-equipped machine guns, hand grenades, and 

rocket-propelled grenades. A confidential ATF report noted that the 

leaders of the group "were dealing directly with Sylvia and Wayne 

Daniel...for the purchase of the machine guns and silencer kits." Agents 

also arrested an Oregon man who had provided machine-gun lower receivers 

to the Order, the group that had assassinated Alan Berg.<P>



"There are literally thousands of persons now in the United States and 

probably outside the United States who have a fully operable silencer 

which is not registered to them and which is possessed unlawfully," Brian 

C. Leighton, an assistant U.S. attorney assigned to the case, wrote in a 

pretrial statement. "It was incredibly easy for these people to receive 

the silencer; they merely had to order the internal-parts kit from SWD and 

order a tube from one of the many tube distributors--all of whom 

advertised in Shotgun News." These were "assassin-type weapons," he said, 

and posed "a definite danger to the community."<P>



As the case approached the trial phase, however, the government found 

itself compelled to admit that no law forbade the sale of the silencer 

components sold by S. W. Daniel. Indeed, federal law expressly excluded 

silencer parts from ATF regulation. The Daniels pleaded guilty to a 

misdemeanor. They were sentenced to six months' probation and forced to 

pay $900 in taxes and fines, but because they had escaped felony charges, 

they were allowed to retain their federal firearms license.<P>



The investigation had not cowed the Daniels. On May 1, 1985, Wayne Daniel 

placed an ad in Shotgun News headed "Now It's Happening in AMERICA" 

featuring a large photograph of Hitler and Mussolini. The ad recounted the 

ATF's raid on S. W. Daniel and listed the names and home cities of the 

agents involved. "The uniforms of this new 'Gestapo' may not be taylored 

[sic] and bear the eagle and swastika on the sleeve, rather they choose to 

wear a business suit or sport jacket and slacks from the racks of a cut

rate department store--but their purpose is the same, they want total 

control and YOU, as an American citizen, DISARMED!"<P>



The agents named in the ad, among them Earl Taylor, demanded that Daniel 

retract the advertisement. He refused. In a handwritten letter he said, "I 

am at a complete loss of words perhaps from bending over laughing."<P>



The agents filed a private libel suit against Wayne Daniel and Snell 

Publishing, the publisher of Shotgun News. Taylor says, "It was, by God, 

to let them know that they couldn't do that to law-enforcement officers 

who were doing their mandated duty."<P>



The court ruled in the agents' favor and ordered Wayne Daniel to pay each 

agent $1,000 in damages, but found Snell not liable.<P>



Undaunted, the Daniels branched out into other firearms. They introduced a 

pistol-grip shotgun with a high-capacity drum magazine and a forward grip, 

resembling a shotgun version of a tommy gun, and called it the 

Street-Sweeper. "Delivers Twelve Rounds In Less Than Three Seconds!!!!" 

one ad proclaimed in Shotgun News. The ad continued, "Time for spring 

cleaning. Why try cleanups with inadequate equipment?? Buy the machine 

designed to clean thoroughly on the first pass."<P>



The company's latest innovation is the Ladies' Home Companion, apparently 

intended for use by women to protect themselves and their homes. A 

variation on the Street-Sweeper, it is just under two feet long, has a 

twelve-shot revolving drum, and fires a heavy .45-70 "government" 

cartridge that causes explosive recoil--yet the gun has only a rear pistol 

grip and no other handle. Moreover, the trigger requires thirty to forty 

pounds of pressure. S. W. Daniel advertised the gun as being "ideal for 

use in confined spaces," yet Don Flohr, a Maryland State Police firearms 

expert who tests weapons for the roster board, refused to test-fire it for 

fear of damaging the state's testing range. An official with Maryland's 

Handgun Roster Board calls it "a sick joke."<P>

I'd have liked to ask the Daniels why they seemed hell-bent on skirting 

firearms laws, but neither returned the many calls I made recently to 

their Atlanta headquarters.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>A</font>t the Baltimore county pistol range, Leonard Supenski had me slip on 

pistol earmuffs and safety glasses. Then he shoved a clip into the Cobray 

and passed it to me. He invited me to blast away.<P>



The trigger was quick--no more demanding than that of a cap pistol. I 

fired with abandon at a series of steel man-shaped targets called Pepper 

Poppers, after their inventor. The targets are designed to fall backward 

when struck by a bullet. The earthen wall came alive as if a tribe of 

beetles had suddenly decided to decamp. I downed all four targets and then 

turned the gun on a loose piece of wood embedded in the earth behind them. 

Shards blew off in all directions. Shell casings rocketed past me, one 

striking the rim of my safety glasses and bouncing off my eyebrow. In a 

matter of seconds I'd used up all thirty-two rounds.<P>



Watching the dirt fly, one can be lulled into believing that this is, 

after all, just fun and games. I wanted to fire off another clip; hell, I 

wanted to "rock and roll," the gun culture's euphemism for firing a 

machine gun in full auto. This WAS fun. Remote destruction is a dynamite 

rush.<P>



"You put a gun like this in the hands of a juvenile," Supenski testified 

at the civil trial, "and you've got death waiting to happen." The judge 

struck his testimony from the record, ruling it prejudicial and 

inflammatory.<P>



"It should have been inflammatory," Supenski told me. "A whole lot of 

people should have heard it and they should have been inflamed." He pushed 

his glasses higher on his nose. "You know the part of that case that 

really bothered me? The clerk who sold the kid that goddamn gun was an 

ex-cop."<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>THE DEALER</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>o be a gun dealer in America is to occupy a strange and dangerous outpost 

on the moral frontier. Every storefront gun dealer winds up at some point 

in his career selling weapons to killers, drug addicts, psychos, and 

felons; likewise, every storefront dealer can expect to be visited by ATF 

agents and other lawmen tracing weapons backward from their use in crime 

to their origins in the gun-distribution network. One must be a cool 

customer to stay in business knowing that the products one sells are 

likely to be used to kill adults and children or to serve as a terroristic 

tool in robberies, rapes, and violent assaults. Yet gun dealers deny at 

every step of the way the true nature of the products they sell and 

absolve themselves of responsibility for their role in the resulting 

mayhem. Guns used in crime are commonly thought to have originated in some 

mythic inner-city black market. Such markets do exist, of course, but they 

are kept well supplied by the licensed gun-distribution network, where 

responsibility is defined as whatever the law allows.<P>



Guns Unlimited demonstrates the kind of position every legitimate gun shop 

must eventually find itself in. Guns Unlimited considers itself a "good" 

dealer. Indeed, in the view of Mike Dick, the general manager of the 

company and the son of its founder, Guns Unlimited is not just a sterling 

corporate citizen but also a de facto deputy of the ATF and a vital 

bulwark in the fight against crime and civil-rights abuse.<P>



Nonetheless, Guns Unlimited sold Nicholas Elliot a gun under circumstances 

that led, early last year, to a jury verdict against the dealer in a civil 

suit, brought by the husband of the slain teacher, which charged the 

dealer with negligence.<P>



Federal law bars anyone under twenty-one from buying a handgun, but 

Nicholas acquired his with ease through a "strawman" purchase three months 

before the shootings, when he was fifteen years old. Straw-man purchases, 

in which a qualified buyer buys a handgun for an unqualified person, are 

the primary means by which America's bad guys acquire their weapons, and 

one the ATF cannot hope to put an end to, given the implicit and explicit 

restraints on its law-enforcement activities.<P>



One peaceful September weekend Nicholas Elliot, apparently at loose ends, 

asked his second cousin, Curtis Williams, a truck driver in his thirties, 

to take him to look at guns in a gun store. Nicholas had pestered Williams 

before, calling "all the time," as Williams remembered it. Williams didn't 

want to go--he was busy stripping wax off a floor in his home and wanted 

to finish the job that day--but he felt guilty. Williams decided that he 

could be back in plenty of time to finish stripping the floor. He 

suggested Bob's Guns, a few minutes away.<P>



When he arrived at Nicholas's house, however, he learned that the boy had 

other ideas. He didn't want to visit just any gun store, according to 

Williams's court testimony. He wanted to go to Guns Unlimited, in 

Carrollton. Williams didn't know the store, but he did know Carrollton. It 

was little more than a wide space on Route 17 in Isle of Wight County, a 

rural wedge of land bordered on the north by the James River and on the 

east by the Portsmouth-Norfolk metropolitan area. It was a long drive from 

Nicholas's house, on Colon Avenue in Norfolk's Campostella neighborhood: a 

round trip of ninety minutes minimum, and that was just travel time. 

Williams told Nicholas he didn't have enough gas for the trip. Nicholas 

passed him $20.<P>



On the way the boy talked about a gun he'd come to appreciate, the Cobray 

M-l1/9 made by S. W. Daniel. "Man," Williams recalled Nicholas's saying, 

"you've got to see that; it's a nice gun."<P>



The easy, fluid commerce of guns embraced them the moment they entered the 

shop. An elderly couple browsing in the store approached almost 

immediately and offered to sell Williams a gun in a private sale. "My 

husband has plenty of guns," the man's wife said. "He'll sell you a gun, 

if you want to buy one." Williams declined.<P>



With the help of Tony Massengill, a firefighter and former policeman now 

moonlighting as a gun salesman, Williams and Nicholas looked at numerous 

guns, Nicholas acting more and more like an earnest shopper, not some kid 

infatuated with guns. Soon, Williams testified, Nicholas was asking to see 

particular guns and peppering Massengill with detailed questions about 

muzzle velocity and comparative power. When Nicholas asked to see the 

Cobray, Massengill obliged. "They got in such a lengthy conversation about 

that," Williams recalled, "I just kind of moved away from them a little 

bit, looking around on my own."<P>



Williams returned, and he and Nicholas browsed until they reached the far 

end of the store, where Nicholas peeled off $300 and gave the money, from 

his savings, to Williams, instructing him to buy the Cobray. This did not 

surprise Williams. He knew a lot of adults who had bought guns for their 

kids; he knew a lot of kids who had guns.<P>



The store was larger then, and configured a bit differently from the way 

it is now, but it was still small enough that anyone watching would have 

been aware of the exchange. What Massengill did see, however, became a 

matter of debate. He claimed he did not remember the sale at all, 

although, curiously, another employee, present in the store at the time 

but not actually involved in the transaction, testified later that he 

remembered seeing the buyers in the store. This clerk, Christopher 

Hartwig, also testified that he and Massengill had discussed the purchase 

after the shootings.<P>



Williams testified in court that when the money changed hands, Massengill 

was still behind the counter at the place where he had last talked with 

Nicholas, some eight or nine feet away. "He was still standing there, 

waiting to wait on us, looking at us."<P>



Nicholas and Williams returned to the counter to buy the Cobray. 

Massengill passed Williams a copy of Form 4473. Everyone who buys a gun 

from a federally licensed firearms dealer must fill out this two-page 

form, which, among other things, asks the would-be purchaser if he is a 

drug addict, is a convicted felon, is mentally ill, or is an illegal 

alien; if he has renounced his U.S. citizenship; whether he has been 

dishonorably discharged from the armed forces. The form goes nowhere. It 

is kept in the dealer's files (provided the dealer in fact keeps such 

files, and keeps them accurately) for later reference should the gun be 

used in a crime and traced by the ATF. By federal law, the buyer need 

present only enough identification to prove that he is twenty-one or older 

and resides in the state in which the dealer is located. (State and local 

laws may add requirements.)<P>



Williams testified that as he began filling out the form, Massengill told 

him, "The only thing that will keep you from buying this gun here in this 

store is you put a 'yes' answer to these questions. Everything should be 

marked no. If you put a yes up there, that will stop you from getting the 

gun." Williams completed the form and concluded the purchase.<P>



Nicholas, meanwhile, had taken the gun from the counter and begun looking 

it over. He left the store carrying the gun.<P>



Immediately after the Atlantic Shores shootings ATF agents arrested 

Williams and charged him with making a straw-man purchase. He was tried 

promptly and served thirteen months in prison. During the trial the 

federal prosecutor asked him, "What would ever possess someone who's 

thirty-six, thirty-seven, years old to arrange for a fifteen-year-old 

young man to get a weapon like that?"<P>



What no federal authority ever bothered to ask, however, is what would 

possess Guns Unlimited to allow this sale to be made, given the apparent 

level of Nicholas's involvement.<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>SELLING GUNS LEGALLY</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font> met Mike Dick--his full name is J. Michael Dick--on a hot morning in 

June at Guns Unlimited in Carrollton, on the north side of Route 17. The 

store is one of seven in a tiny mini-mall fronted with a white-gravel 

parking lot that blazed in the morning sun.<P>



Mike and his father, James S. Dick, hold two of the nation's 245,000 

federal firearms-dealer licenses--two of the 7,000 licenses issued to 

residents of Virginia, where gun controls are virtually nonexistent.<P>



Dick was late, but two of his clerks arrived and invited me inside to 

wait. The shop, no larger than a suburban living room, was a fortress. The 

Dicks had embedded steel "tank traps" in the sidewalk out front, to 

prevent a recurrence of what has become a fairly routine kind of burglary 

at the gun stores of America: crashing through the front display window 

with a truck. The Dicks installed the tank traps a few years ago, after a 

thief backed a dump truck into the store. Now an alarm system guards the 

place at night. The front door has been reinforced with steel. Steel 

herringbone grates cover the inside surfaces of the two large plate-glass 

windows. A big Pepsi machine stands against the grate just inside the door 

as a barrier to anyone hoping to cut through the glass to reach the door 

locks. The day I was there, the two clerks wore large-bore handguns 

strapped to their hips, one a revolver, the other a semi-automatic pistol. 

One clerk, dressed in black and wearing tinted glasses, told me that he 

and his partner were careful to stand at different points in the shop so 

that no one could get the drop on them simultaneously. He untacked a brief 

news clipping from the bulletin board behind him and proudly handed it to 

me. The item reported how just that week a Portsmouth gun-shop owner had 

shot and killed a would-be robber. No charges were filed.<P>



Mike Dick arrived, wearing jeans and a T-shirt. He is a young man whose 

prior career was in the hospitality (hotel and restaurant) industry. He 

joined Guns Unlimited to help his father salvage the business, which in 

the three years since the shooting had suffered badly--not from public 

condemnation but from the recession and the sudden decampment of so many 

military men from the Hampton Roads area during the Gulf War. The domestic 

gun industry as a whole has likewise experienced declining sales over the 

past few years, and last March one of the country's highest

profile arms makers, Colt's Manufacturing, filed for protection from 

creditors under Chapter 11. At the time of the shooting, however, the 

industry was enjoying a robust surge in sales, and Guns Unlimited was 

thriving. As of 1990 James Dick owned three Guns Unlimited stores. By the 

time I met his son, however, Guns Unlimited had also been placed in 

Chapter 11; the Carrollton store was the only one operating.<P>



At its peak the company advertised aggressively on television and with 

huge billboards featuring a giant handgun and proclaiming, "NO PERMITS," a 

reference to the fact that in Isle of Wight County, as in most of the rest 

of Virginia, you don't need a permit to buy a handgun. Regulations are 

much stiffer in individual cities in the Hampton Roads area, however: 

Portsmouth, for example, requires that buyers first get a city police 

permit. Guns Unlimited used the placement of its three stores to defeat 

these laws. In a deposition the aforementioned Christopher Hartwig, a 

clerk at the company until May of 1991, said that if a customer at the 

Portsmouth store needed a gun right away, a clerk would drive the gun to 

the Carrollton store and meet the buyer there. "Most people don't want to 

wait," he explained. "It would be like waiting two weeks to buy a nice 

car. You would want it today if you got the money. So they'd send the gun, 

you know, to the other store and then all the paperwork, everything, would 

be done right there."<P>



This bit of retail sleight of hand was legal.<P>



"Guns Unlimited is very well respected," Mike Dick assured me over coffee 

in the convenience store at the end of the mini-mall. He told me he'd been 

invited to join the state police firearms advisory board, and had assisted 

the ATF in numerous investigations, often calling the regional office 

after--or even during--suspicious transactions.<P>



"In fact," he told me, "I would venture to say if you talked to the local 

office of ATF, you would find that no one in this region assists them, 

whenever possible, as much as we do."<P>



At the same time, Guns Unlimited sold an especially lethal weapon to an 

adolescent--a weapon, moreover, that its own staff said served no useful 

purpose. At one point in the deposition process that preceded the civil 

trial of Guns Unlimited, Randy Singer, the plaintiff's attorney, asked 

Hartwig what he thought of the Cobray M-l1/9. "It's good for nothing," 

Hartwig said.<P>



Hartwig added that one kind of customer did seem drawn to the weapon. 

"Your blacks are real impressed with them. We usually joke around about it 

because that's the first thing they want to look at when they come in, or 

we get phone calls, 'Do you have an Uzi, do you have an M-11,' because 

they see it on TV. They feel pretty powerful having one of those."<P>



Nicholas, who is black, was adamant about going to Guns Unlimited. 

Traffickers, gang members, and other killers have likewise chosen Guns 

Unlimited, a fact that has given the dealership a certain notoriety in 

Virginia's Tidewater region--unjustly, perhaps, but also unavoidably, 

given the peculiar nature of firearms retailing.<P>



In two cases in the 1990s gun traffickers recruited straw-man buyers to 

acquire large numbers of guns. In both cases, according to documents in 

Norfolk federal court, the traffickers specifically directed their 

recruits to Guns Unlimited; in both cases Guns Unlimited did indeed act as 

an exemplary corporate citizen.<P>



In one case, Amir Ali Faraz, a twenty-two-year-old student, asked a friend 

of his, Matthew Jones, about buying "a couple of firearms"; Faraz couldn't 

buy the guns on his own, he knew, because his permanent residence was in 

Pennsylvania and he had only a Pennsylvania driver's license. Jones got 

him a Virginia license belonging to a man of roughly similar appearance 

who had lost it earlier in the year. Jones took Faraz to Guns Unlimited, 

where Faraz bought six high-caliber handguns--four for himself and one 

each for Jones and a friend of Jones's who had accompanied them to the 

store. A week later Faraz sold three of his to Jones for $1,200. "Matthew 

told me he could sell these firearms for a 'big profit' in the Tidewater 

area to people who would take them up North and make even a bigger profit 

from them," Faraz said in a written statement to the ATF.<P>



In the gun trade buying more than one handgun at a time automatically 

raises a warning flag; in fact, the ATF requires dealers to mail in a 

multiple-purchase form any time a customer buys two or more handguns 

within a period of five working days. Nonetheless, in the absence of 

specific local regulations, anyone can walk into a gun store and buy a 

hundred handguns. The dealer is under no obligation to telephone the ATF, 

or even to inquire why anyone would want so many guns. All the dealer must 

do is mail the form by the close of business on the day of the purchase. 

The buyer, meanwhile, is free to scoop up his hundred handguns and start 

selling.<P>



The ATF will investigate high-volume purchases, provided it learns of 

them. If a purchase takes place on a Saturday night, however, the ATF 

won't see the form for several days. Meanwhile, the guns will begin their 

rapid migration through the illicit-arms network. Guns trafficked from 

Norfolk, Virginia, for example, typically wind up in the hands of crooks 

in Washington, Philadelphia, and New York, half a day's drive up 

Interstate 95--nicknamed the "Iron Road" for all the illicit weapons that 

make the trip. That the notification procedure takes place by mail in an 

age when virtually every ordinary consumer transaction involves some 

immediate form of computer verification is but one of the peculiar ironies 

that characterize arms commerce in America.<P>



Mike Dick managed the first sale to Faraz, and was immediately suspicious, 

enough so that he telephoned the Norfolk office of the ATF to alert them 

to Faraz's purchases. (He also mailed a multiple-purchase form.) Over the 

next two weeks Faraz returned three times and bought twenty-nine more 

guns, selling twenty-five to Jones, according to court documents. On the 

last of these shopping trips Faraz placed an order for thirteen more 

handguns, all high-quality Glock pistols. Dick telephoned the ATF while 

Faraz was still in the store, and helped choreograph an undercover 

operation against Faraz. Dick allowed the ATF to choose the day on which 

Guns Unlimited would notify Faraz that the guns he had ordered were ready 

for pickup.<P>



Agents arrested Faraz and, after allowing him to deliver ten guns to 

Jones, arrested Jones as well. Both men were convicted of violating 

federal firearms laws.<P>



"I don't just send the forms in and hope it takes six months for ATF to 

get around to them," Dick told me. "If there is something that's obviously 

a problem--and this obviously was--my opinion is the best way to correct 

the problem from society's standpoint is to get these people off the 

street. If I just refuse to sell them weapons, nothing's going to happen. 

They're just going to go to someone less ethical than myself. And he may 

send the multiple-purchase form in; he may not send it in. Not all dealers 

are good."<P>



Society did not make out in this deal quite as well as Guns Unlimited did. 

The store booked at least $15,000 in sales. Yet twenty-nine of the forty

eight high-caliber handguns that Faraz bought wound up in Matthew Jones's 

hands and presumably in the gun-trafficking network. (Some of the guns 

were kept by Jones, Faraz, and Faraz's friends.) <P>



In the second trafficking case a local college student, Dean Archer, was 

recruited to buy guns by a convicted felon. He made his first purchase on 

December 1, 1990, when he bought four handguns from Guns Unlimited-

four pistols made by Davis Industries, a favorite of traffickers who buy 

them cheaply in Virginia and other jurisdictions with lax controls and 

then sell them at a steep markup to inner-city buyers.<P>



No one at Guns Unlimited seemed particularly concerned about the purchase. 

No one felt moved to call the ATF. Indeed, the store sold Archer the guns 

on the strength of a rent receipt for a Virginia apartment and his 

driver's license--a NEW YORK driver's license.<P>



When the ATF learned of Archer's purchase--three days later--the agency 

was instantly suspicious and launched a preliminary investigation. A few 

days after the first purchase Archer reappeared at Guns Unlimited, this 

time accompanied by a young woman, Lisa Yvonne Scott. Scott bought seven 

cheap Davis handguns. Again, the ATF learned of the sale only through a 

multiple-purchase form mailed by Guns Unlimited. Again, the form arrived 

three days after the purchase--more than enough time for those guns to 

make their way from hand to hand, state to state. And again, the ATF 

immediately assumed that something illicit had occurred.<P>



The ATF called Guns Unlimited to get more details and learned that Scott 

had been accompanied by an unidentified male later identified as Dean 

Archer. By this point, however, eleven of the country's favorite crime 

guns were on the street.<P>



A few days later Scott appeared again and bought thirteen Davis pistols. 

This time Mike Dick telephoned the ATF. Nonetheless, Archer and Scott left 

the store with their new purchases. The total of cheap and deadly Davis 

pistols bought by the pair had risen to twenty-four. Four days later Scott 

and Archer made yet another buying trip, but at last the ATF was waiting. 

The two were arrested and convicted.<P>



Clearly the store had been helpful to the ATF. But why would Guns 

Unlimited even consider selling a handgun to a buyer presenting an out-of

state license for identification?<P>



Dick explained that the clerk accepted the license as identification only 

because it had a photograph of Archer and established the link between his 

face and his name. A Norfolk rent receipt and an ID card from a local 

college established that he lived in Virginia. The fact that he was 

enrolled in college explained why he would have a New York license and be 

renting an apartment in Virginia.<P>



Federal law grants a licensed gun dealer broad discretion to refuse to 

sell to anyone; a brochure mailed to licensees states in bold print, "Know 

Your Customer." Wouldn't prudence have dictated that Guns Unlimited simply 

refuse to sell weapons when the nature of the sale provides clear grounds 

for suspicion--clear enough, certainly, for the ATF?<P>



"They tell me I have the discretion to do that," Dick said. "But in 

practical terms, that doesn't give me the right to infringe on anyone's 

civil rights."<P>



I asked him how he felt knowing that Nicholas Elliot and various gun 

traffickers had specifically sought out Guns Unlimited as the place to 

acquire their guns.<P>



"Well, actually, good," he said. "I don't know how to describe it without 

sounding...bad. Because I come out of hospitality, customer service is my 

number-one concern. Period. Beyond all others. The ethnicity of an 

individual, in my restaurants, my hotel rooms, my store, is absolutely 

unimportant. I don't care what part of town you live in, what race you're 

of, you're going to be treated like a human being."<P>



"But I'm not talking about race," I said. "All I--"<P>



Dick cut me off. "But that's the point," he said. "I have a stronger black 

clientele than any store in Tidewater and I would bet any store in the 

state, and maybe any store in the Southeast, because--and word gets 

around--I treat people like human beings, and they can't always get that 

elsewhere."<P>



On March 29, 1991, Jean-Claude Pierre Hill, a young Virginia doctor with a 

history of mental-health problems, bought two Colt .45 pistols from Mike 

Dick at Guns Unlimited. Dick remembers the case well. "In that particular 

situation there was something wrong about him," he told me. "I called ATF 

while he was in the store; I said, I can't put my finger on it but there's 

just something not right here." Despite his unease, however, he failed to 

notice that Hill never signed his Form 4473--an absolute requirement of 

federal firearms law. Dick would later testify that he "somehow missed" 

that omission.<P>



The ATF ran a background check on Hill through the National Crime 

Information Center, but found nothing. No one at the agency's Norfolk 

office knew of Hill or had any reason to worry about him. Dick sold him 

the guns.<P>



I asked Dick why, given his concerns, he made the sale. "Couldn't you have 

just said, 'You worry me; I'm not going to sell you these weapons'?" <P>



"You're absolutely right: that's what I could have said. But do I trample 

on somebody's individual rights simply because I feel bad and the ATF says 

I have the discretion to do it?"<P>



A week after Hill bought the guns, he fired into a crowded street in 

Philadelphia, killing one man and wounding two. (He was found guilty of 

first-degree murder early last year and sentenced to life imprisonment.)<P>



"How did you feel when you heard about this?" I asked. "That this guy had 

taken these guns you sold him, even though you had doubts, and killed 

somebody--the ultimate deprivation of somebody's rights? Did it cause you 

any sleepless nights?"<P>



"No. I did everything I possibly could have, short of compromising 

something I feel very strongly about. And that is, I'm not going to decide 

if you are a worthwhile person or not. He gave me red flags. I checked him 

out. Had there been anything, had ATF found mental instability in his 

background, had ATF said he was [dishonorably] discharged, I could have 

gone to him and said, 'Jean-Claude, I'm not going to sell you these guns.' 

But I'm not going to decide somebody's character based on my impressions 

of him--I'm just not gonna do it. It's not necessarily tied to any Second 

Amendment right to keep and bear arms--it's not tied to my right as a 

retailer not to do business with somebody. I just would not want to put 

myself in the position of deciding someone else's character arbitrarily 

based on my own opinion. Empowering people to do that is dangerous."<P>



In most jurisdictions in America, however, there is little else to keep 

guns out of the wrong hands. Form 4473, far from helping, has become a 

conduit for the evasion of responsibility. You'd have to be naive indeed 

to answer yes to any of the eight questions about your criminal background 

and mental health. And in most jurisdictions no formal channel exists to 

check the truth of your answers. (In 1989 Virginia changed its gun laws, 

establishing an "instant-check" system that requires dealers to run a 

quick criminal check on every purchaser. But the system tells nothing 

about whether a buyer has been committed to a mental institution.) One can 

argue that it is unfair to ask America's gun dealers--businessmen, after 

all--to go beyond what the law requires of them. Nevertheless, dealers and 

their official lobbyists--the NRA in particular--played a large role in 

shaping existing firearms regulations and in making Congress squeamish 

about establishing anything even faintly resembling a centralized, 

automated registry of all the nation's gun owners.<P>



Blame aside, Form 4473 is flimsy protection indeed for an enterprise under 

assault from all quarters. Mike Dick must defend against trucks. He must 

be vigilant for traffickers, killers, and other felons seeking to buy his 

wares. He wears a handgun to work 40 percent of the time but concedes that 

it provides only limited protection from robbers.<P>



So why, I asked, did he stay in the business?<P>



"I come out of the hospitality industry--hospitality is my first love. I 

came here out of necessity to help my father. It has become a challenge to 

me, taking a declining business under constant siege by various aspects of 

society--it is a monumental challenge. My goal is to become profitable 

enough that at some point we can sell and I can go back to what I do best, 

and that is run hotels."<P>



I asked Raymond Rowley, the ATF special agent who investigated Nicholas 

Elliot's acquisition of his gun, how he would describe the ATF's 

relationship with Guns Unlimited.<P>



"I would say it's a good relationship," Rowley said. "We try to deal with 

all these firearms dealers as fairly as we can. They are selling a legal 

commodity. Obviously guns can be used in crimes. We try to deal with them 

fairly."<P>



Leonard Supenski was a bit less circumspect. Of James Dick he said, "That 

guy is a pariah. He ought to be turned out of that industry. But ATF 

didn't do anything. ATF should have nailed him to the cross."<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>THE REGULATORS</B><P>



<font size=5>G</font>un aficionados may liken the bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms to 

the Gestapo, but in its relationship with America's gun dealers the ATF 

behaves more like an indulgent parent. This is partly the result of 

restrictions imposed by budget and statute, and partly an institutional 

reluctance to offend its primary source of investigative leads or to 

provoke the cantankerous gun lobby. The ATF is in the business not of 

seeking to prevent the migration of weapons, a spokesman told me, but of 

building and preserving a paper trail for the day when those weapons will 

be used to commit major crimes.<P>



In fairness, the ATF, like the dealers it monitors, is in an almost 

untenable position. It must police the nation's 245,000 licensed firearms 

dealers with only 400 inspectors, each of whom must also conduct 

inspections of wineries, breweries, distillers, liquor distributors, 

tobacco producers, and the country's 10,500 explosives users and 

manufacturers.<P>



At the same time, the agency is obliged by law to grant a firearms license 

to virtually anyone who asks for one, provided that the applicant has 

never been convicted of a felony and has $30 to cover the minimum 

licensing fee. In 1990, of the 34,336 Americans who applied for a license, 

only seventy

five had their applications denied.<P>



Depending on one's stance in the gun debate, the application process is 

either too stringent or appallingly easy. An applicant doesn't have to 

demonstrate any knowledge of firearms, not even whether he knows the 

difference between a pistol and a revolver. It is much harder to get a 

license to operate a powerboat on Chesapeake Bay, to become a substitute 

teacher in New Jersey, or to get a California driver's license--and far, 

far harder to get a Maryland permit to carry a single handgun--than it is 

to get a license that enables you to acquire at wholesale prices thousands 

of varieties of weapons and have them shipped right to your home. Roughly 

half of federal firearms licensees don't maintain bona fide stores, 

according to the ATF, but operate instead out of their homes. Many sell 

guns at gun shows; many don't deal guns at all but hold a license simply 

in order to buy their guns at wholesale prices. A small but obviously 

important proportion use their licenses to buy guns wholesale for 

distribution to inner-city arms traffickers.<P>



My neighbors may not want to hear this, but last May 15 I applied for a 

federal firearms license as part of an effort to inject myself as deeply 

as possible into America's gun culture. The two-page application, ATF Form 

7, asked which grade of license I wanted. I could choose among nine 

levels, costing from $30 to $3,000, the most expensive qualifying the 

holder to import "destructive devices" such as mortars, bazookas, and 

other weapons with a barrel-bore diameter of half an inch or more. The 

form asked the same eight questions about a person's criminal past and 

mental health which appear on Form 4473.<P>



I received my license on June 22, well within the forty-five days in which 

the ATF is required to accept or deny an application. No one called to 

verify my application. No one interviewed me to see if in fact I planned 

to sell weapons. And I was not required by federal law to check with 

authorities in Maryland and Baltimore about specific local statutes that 

might affect my ability to peddle guns in the heart of my manicured, 

upscale, utterly established Baltimore neighborhood. As far as the federal 

government was concerned, I was in business, and could begin placing 

orders for as many weapons as I chose.<P>



If the current rate of licensing continues, the number of federal firearms 

licensees will double in the next decade, to well over half a 

million--even though the fortunes of domestic arms manufacturers are 

likely to continue their current decline. With more-intense competition 

for the shrinking gun-consumer dollar will come far greater incentive to 

do only the minimum required by law to keep guns out of the wrong hands.<P>



Dealers who violate the law WILL get caught, the ATF is fond of saying. 

And that's largely true. When law-enforcement officials actually request a 

federal trace, the ATF tracing network often proves a very effective 

investigative tool, both in solving crimes and in identifying renegade 

dealers. A fundamental problem with this approach, however, is that by the 

time the ATF tracing network gets involved, the guns in question have been 

used in crime, typically serious crime involving homicide, assault, or 

narcotics peddling.<P>



Current statistics suggest that the ATF is reluctant to police the vast 

dealer network. From 1975 through 1990 the ATF revoked an average of ten 

licenses a year. The low was in 1978, with none, and the high in 1986, 

with twenty-seven. This rate seems low given the sheer numbers of licenses 

and the rate of violations discovered whenever the ATF's skeleton crew of 

inspectors does routine compliance audits. In 1990, for example, 

inspectors conducted 8,471 of these routine inspections; they found 

violations in 90 percent of them.<P>



The ATF publicly argues that the vast majority of licensees are honest, 

law-abiding citizens, and that only "one or two" go bad. Even if true, 

this argument would hardly be comforting, given the speed with which guns 

migrate. A single illicit dealer can put hundreds, perhaps thousands, of 

weapons into the hands of would-be killers and felons before a sufficient 

number of his weapons are used in crimes, and enough of these are traced, 

to raise the ATF's suspicions. The fact is, many dealers do operate 

illegally, as the ATF discovers on those rare occasions when it takes a 

preventive approach to firearms-law enforcement. A classic example of such 

enforcement, and the kind that ought to be pursued as a matter of routine, 

is Project Detroit, an ongoing effort by the ATF and the Detroit police to 

trace as many guns confiscated in that city as possible.<P>



In its report on the first phase of Project Detroit, covering guns 

confiscated by the Detroit police from January of 1989 to April of 1990, 

the ATF, typically, was careful to note, "just because [a federal firearms 

licensee] has sold a large number of weapons that were subsequently used 

in crimes does not necessarily indicate the [licensee] is intentionally 

diverting weapons to the criminal element." Large-volume dealers, the 

report explained, would necessarily experience more traces.<P>



Yet of the five licensed dealers who turned up most often in Project 

Detroit traces, four became the targets of full-scale ATF Investigations. 

The worst offender was Sherman Butler, of Sterling Heights, Michigan, near 

Detroit, whose Sherm's Guns accounted for twenty-nine traces stemming from 

a range of crimes that included at least two homicides. Butler's specialty 

was the sale of S. W. Daniel semi-automatics modified to include a 

sixteen-inch barrel and shoulder stock, thus qualifying them as long 

rifles and allowing customers to avoid more-stringent federal and state 

rules governing handgun sales, such as Michigan's requirement that anyone 

buying a handgun must first have a state license to purchase. For $125 

extra, however, Butler threw in a pistol-length barrel and enough of a 

pistol frame--a pistol "upper receiver"--to allow buyers quickly to turn 

their carbines into semi-automatic pistols.<P>



In all, this first phase of Project Detroit involved the tracing of 1,226 

weapons, leading to investigations of thirteen licensed dealers and 

successful prosecutions against ten. Two suspects died. One case is 

pending. The ATF discovered that three of these dealers had, as a routine 

business practice, obliterated the serial number on every gun they 

received from wholesalers. "We estimate," the report said, That over 3,000 

firearms were sold by these dealers, and that law enforcement officers 

will be recovering them in various crimes for years to come."<P>



The Project Detroit report failed to note what ought to be the most 

troubling finding of its investigations: that apparently honest dealers 

accounted for the remaining 1,000 traces, a fact that testifies again to 

the high costs imposed on the rest of us by even legitimate gun shops. 

Indeed, of the top ten dealers, four weren't investigated by the ATF but 

nonetheless accounted for ten to twenty traces each, including traces 

involving at least four homicides. In all, Project Detroit traded guns 

sold by legitimate dealers from New York to Alaska and used subsequently 

in AT LEAST two kidnappings, thirty-four homicides, and scores of 

narcotics offenses--again, from only 1,226 traced weapons.<P>



In his introduction to the report, Bernard La Forest, the special agent in 

charge, wrote, "What would the results indicate if we had the capability 

of successfully tracing 10,000 to 15,000 weapons seized by all law 

enforcement agencies in this metropolitan area?"<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>R</font>aymond Rowley, the Norfolk ATF agent, initiated the ATF's search for the 

source of Nicholas Elliot's gun. He heard about the shooting on the news 

and quickly volunteered his help to Detective Donald Adams, the Virginia 

Beach homicide investigator. Rowley ordered a trace. The serial number was 

relayed to Tom Stokes, the special agent in charge in Atlanta, who managed 

after considerable effort to reach Sylvia Daniel by phone. In a departure 

from the usual frosty relations between her company and the ATF, Daniel 

agreed to stop by her office on the way to her company Christmas party to 

look up the serial number herself.<P>



The number led to a distributor, who in turn said he had shipped the 

pistol to Guns Unlimited. By eleven o'clock that evening Rowley, another 

agent, and Adams were at Curtis Williams's door.<P>



As noted, Williams went to jail. As far as federal law was concerned, 

however, Guns Unlimited did nothing wrong when it sold the Cobray to 

Williams, even under such obviously suspicious circumstances. Williams had 

shown the appropriate identification and had filled out Form 4473 

properly, dutifully writing "no" after every background question on the 

form.<P>



No one thought to investigate Guns Unlimited, not even after the suit for 

negligence yielded a judgment against the company.<P>



"We're always looking for, and sensitive to, violations of federal law, 

regardless of who may be the individual or entity involved," Rowley told 

me. "In this case, no, we did not go back and reinvestigate. Nothing that 

came up during the investigation of Williams pointed to wrongdoing on the 

part of Guns Unlimited."<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>EDUCATING THE GUN CULTURE</B><P>



<font size=5>W</font>hen Nicholas Elliot arrived at the Atlantic Shores Christian School that 

cold December morning, he came prepared for a fire fight. The most 

striking thing about his cargo, however, was not the inherent firepower, 

which was indeed prodigious, but rather the weapons savvy evident in what 

he had done to the gun and its ammunition to make them even more efficient 

at killing.<P>



Nicholas loved guns. "The only friend I had was my gun," the boy told 

Detective Adams as he was led from school after the shootings, "and you 

already took that from me."<P>



He read books and magazines about guns. He papered the interior of his 

school locker with glossy photographs of big-bore revolvers and pistols, 

the kind that dominate the pages of such magazines as American Handgunner 

and Guns and Ammo. His love of guns was common knowledge among the other 

students at Atlantic Shores, and it served to increase his alienation from 

his peers. In conversation, according to a fellow student, Nicholas had a 

passion for discussing "which bullets had more firepower." His classmates 

worried about Nicholas. One told a Norfolk newspaper, "All the kids said 

he was going to shoot someone."<P>



Nicholas carried his Cobray M-11/19 to school in his backpack, along with 

an array of accessories and extra ammunition. From a length of rope he had 

fashioned a combat sling similar in concept to slings that anti-terrorist 

commandos use with the compact Heckler and Koch submachine gun to help 

control the weapon during combat. He carried a crude silencer made from a 

pipe wrapped in fabric, and a "brass catcher" he had made from cloth and 

tape, to be attached to his gun to catch ejected cartridge cases. "A gun 

enthusiast might use a brass catcher to catch the brass for reloading," 

Adams told me. "A murderer or a person about to commit a crime might use 

one to collect the evidence."<P>



Nicholas also brought six 32-round magazines, each long and thin and made 

of gray plastic, giving him a total of 192 bullets ready to fire. He had 

"jungle-clipped" the magazines--that is, he had taped them together in 

pairs so that the instant he expended one magazine he could yank it out, 

flip the assembly, and ram in the fresh end.<P>



Nicholas came prepared for the possibility that he might use up the 192 

rounds stacked in the six magazines. He carried hundreds of extra 

cartridges, including several boxes containing thirty-two rounds each-

exactly enough to refill an expended clip. To speed the process of 

refilling, Nicholas had inserted a thin but strong piece of white string 

through the base of each magazine. When tugged, Adams told me, the string 

would pull down the spring-driven feeder inside the magazine, thus easing 

the resistance. "He could hold the string down by clamping it under his 

foot," Adams explained. He could then insert each cartridge more quickly 

and with less strain.<P>



Finally, Nicholas modified even the bullets themselves. He filed a groove 

into the tip of at least one bullet, apparently in the hopes of turning it 

into a "dumdum"--a bullet that breaks apart on impact, thereby in theory 

becoming considerably more deadly. Nicholas modified other bullets by 

drilling from the tip downward to form "hollowpoints." On impact, 

hollowpoint bullets spread into lethal mushrooms that produce bigger holes 

and more potent neural disruption than solid rounds.<P>



"This guy," Adams says, "was ready for war."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>H</font>omicide, or rather the homicide fantasy, is one of the engines that 

drives America's fascination with guns. Target shooters spend hour after 

hour firing into human silhouettes. Practical shooting competitions held 

nationwide test civilian competitors' ability to hit silhouettes after 

leaping from a car. In this context, models of guns used in grisly crimes 

actually gain popularity. After the assassination of President John F. 

Kennedy, sales of the otherwise undistinguished Mannlicher-Carcano rifle 

used by Lee Harvey Oswald soared. Even the murder of schoolchildren can 

increase sales. After Patrick Edward Purdy opened fire on a school yard in 

Stockton, California, with an AK-47, sales of the gun and its knock-offs 

boomed. Prices quadrupled, to $1,500. Guns Unlimited felt the surge in 

demand. "I didn't sell an AK until Stockton in California; then everybody 

wanted one," James Dick said in a deposition.<P>



This passion for lethality suffuses the gun and ammunition design process. 

Manufacturers routinely test their prototypes by blasting away at blocks 

of goo--"ordnance gelatin"--intended specifically to simulate human 

tissue. Their enthusiasm for gore can lead to some vivid advertising. In 

the March/April, 1992, issue of American Handgunner, the Eldorado 

Cartridge Corporation ran a full-page ad for its Starfire cartridge under 

the bold headline "IF LOOKS COULD KILL." The ad called the Starfire the 

"deadliest handgun cartridge ever developed for home or personal defense, 

and hunting," and went on to describe how the bullet expands on impact, 

"resulting in a massive wound channel." Its deep penetration, the ad 

crowed, "helps assure fast knockdown."<P>



On a recent visit to a gun show at the county fairground in Frederick, 

Maryland, I stood beside a man and his young son who, like me, were 

intently watching a promotional video produced by Power-Plus, a maker of 

exotic ammunition. The narrator, dressed in a dark T-shirt and speaking in 

that laconic back-country drawl that characterizes today's notion of 

toughness, demonstrated his company's rounds by firing a sample of each 

into a fresh block of yellowish gelatin, with the camera then moving close 

to offer a side view of the depth of penetration and the jagged wound 

channel coursing through the translucent plasma. Each round did more 

damage than the last, until the narrator fired a sample of the company's 

Annihilator high-explosive cartridge, which slammed into the gelatin, 

exploded, and knocked the quivering block from its stand.<P>



He did not stop here, however. Next he demonstrated the effects of the 

company's bullets on a pail packed with clay. This time those of us 

watching were treated to the additional audio enticement of the wet 

slapping sound of the clay as the bullets entered, fragmented, and 

ruptured the surrounding muck, gouging caverns the size of pumpkins.<P>



"Still watching, son?" the father asked softly, his hands resting on his 

son's shoulders.<P>



His son, clearly entranced, nodded slowly.<P>



A few men walked the aisles wearing little signs on their backs listing 

the guns they owned and wanted to sell. Another man had stuck a "For Sale" 

sign in the barrel of the rifle slung over his shoulder. Seated behind 

battered folding tables, dealers sold guns, books, accessories, and 

ammunition. Several dealers sold books on how to kill and, for those who 

knew how already, how to do it more effectively--including books on how to 

make silencers, military manuals on how to make booby traps, Army manuals 

on how to make "improvised munitions," and a nifty little tome, courtesy 

of the Pentagon, on how to polish up your sniper skills.<P>



Gun writers, too, help orchestrate the mood that so infuses the gun 

culture. They know what their readers want. The newsletter Gun Tests 

routinely rates the penetration power of handguns and ammunition the way 

Consumer Reports rates new cars. American Handgunner's 1992 "Combat 

Annual" reviews six high-caliber revolvers, calling them "The Ultimate 

Manstoppers!" Regular issues of the magazine are full of tales of combat 

tactics and police shoot-outs, part of a running series by Massad Ayoob, 

the magazine's star reporter. "Gory True Story," the cover of the October, 

1991, issue announced. "REAL-LIFE TERMINATOR! Soaking up bullet after 

bullet, a cop-killing PCP freak just won't die! Massad Ayoob's chilling 

account on page 70."<P>



Gun writers often skirt the gory reality of gunplay by deftly avoiding 

such words as "kill," "murder," and "death," using instead "knockdown," 

"stopping power," and--my favorite--"double-tap," meaning to shoot a man 

twice. (Double Tap also happens to be the name of a Virginia Beach gun 

store, whose sign features a black silhouette with two red holes over the 

heart.)<P>



To the gun writers, no firearm is unworthy of praise, not even the 

Saturday-night specials made by the now defunct RG Industries, one of 

which was used by John Hinckley to shoot President Ronald Reagan and 

permanently disable James Brady, his press secretary. In its most recent 

Combat Annual, American Handgunner includes a defense of RG's guns written 

by Mark Moritz, the special-projects editor. Moritz tested a .22 caliber 

RG revolver against an expensive Smith & Wesson .22, comparing their 

performance on both head and body shots. The RG was a little slower.<P>



However, Moritz writes, "even out of the box we are only talking about two 

tenths of a second for multiple head shots at the relatively long range of 

seven yards."<P>



Moritz won't win any awards for sensitivity in journalism. Early on in the 

article he denounces the "slime-bucket" lawyers who sued RG Industries and 

put them out of business after the Reagan-Brady shootings. He continues:<P>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

When John Hinckley shot James Brady, with an RG .22 revolver, his wife 

Sarah, head spokesnut at Handgun Control, Inc., sued RG. She was offended 

that her husband was shot with a cheap, low-powered gun. I guess she 

wanted him to be shot with an expensive, high powered gun.<P>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





The Cobray M-11/9, Nicholas Elliot's gun, gets its share of praise. The 

Gun Digest Book of Assault Weapons includes a chapter on the pistol and 

its heritage. The author describes it as "a plinker's delight and the bane 

of all tin cans, milk jugs, clay pigeons, and other inanimate objects." He 

sees its primary practical value as being home defense. "Appearance alone 

should cause most burglars and intruders to consider instant surrender if 

brought before its muzzle."<P>



America's entertainment media provide the last ingredients in the perverse 

and lethal roux that keeps the body count climbing even as the domestic 

arms industry shrinks. Just as McQ promoted the Ingram, Dirty Harry 

promoted the Smith & Wesson Model 29 and Miami Vice such assault weapons 

as the Uzi, Bren 10, and members of the Ingram family. Park Dietz, a 

California forensic psychiatrist, studied the effect of Miami Vice on gun 

prices and demand, and found that the appearance of the Bren 10 in the 

hands of Sonny Crockett (Don Johnson) in early episodes of the show 

immediately boosted demand for the weapon. Dietz told the Cox Newspapers 

that Miami Vice "was the major determinant of assault-gun fashion for the 

1980s."<P>



Our movies and TV shows do far more damage than simply enhancing the 

appeal of exotic weapons, however. They teach a uniquely American lesson: 

When a real man has a problem, he gets his gun. He slaps in a clip, he 

squints grimly into the hot noon sun, and then he does what he's gotta 

do.<P>



This is the lesson that Nicholas Elliot absorbed: When all else fails, 

maybe a gun can solve your problem. And Nicholas had a problem or thought 

he did. He believed that some of the teachers at Atlantic Shores didn't 

like him. His fellow students, one in particular, picked on him, 

occasionally shoving and hitting him and taunting him with racial slurs. 

One week before the shooting his main tormentor, a boy I'll call Billy 

Cutter, had called him a "nigger."<P>



"It's just people picking on me," Nicholas told Donald Adams, when Adams 

questioned him just after the shootings. "That's all it is. If God would 

have just stopped them--if I was nice enough and He would have made it so 

they were nice to me and didn't hit me, everything would be fine. That's 

as simple as it is, or He could have just made them keep their hands to 

theirselves. That's very simple."<P>



Nicholas claimed that his classmates teased him about his love of guns. 

"They were always making fun of me. They always said stuff, 'You know so 

much about guns. You never even shot a gun in your life."'<P>



That Friday morning he set out to prove a few things to Billy and the 

other kids. "I wasn't angry," he told Adams. "I was just trying to find 

[Billy]--I wanted to scare him, to make him see how much of a wimp he was 

in front of everyone."<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>WHAT NICHOLAS DID</B><P>



<font size=5>N</font>icholas awoke the morning of December 16 feeling sick, but for no 

particular reason. "I didn't feel like going to school," he told Adams, 

but I knew I would get in trouble if I didn't, so I went....I was just so 

sick." He packed his backpack and caught his usual bus.<P>



The Atlantic Shores Christian School is run by the Atlantic Shores Baptist 

Church, whose 3,500-member congregation makes it the third largest church 

in the Hampton Roads area, where churches are about as ubiquitous as the 

U.S. Navy. The school, which consists of both permanent and portable 

classrooms arrayed around a courtyard, has an enrollment of some 500 

students, only twenty-three of whom were black when Nicholas was a student 

there.<P>



Nicholas attended his first classes as usual. On his way to Bible class he 

encountered Billy Cutter, his nemesis and, according to some informants, 

his part-time friend. Nicholas, by his own account, had hoped to come 

across Billy. And Billy, true to form, again called him a name. Nicholas 

went into a bathroom and took his Cobray from his backpack. He left both 

there, however, and exited the room. His account gets vague at this point. 

He wandered to the band room and at one point helped a man named Mike 

Lucky move a box.<P>



Nicholas soon appeared at a trailer occupied by two teachers, Sam Marino 

and Susan Allen. He told Marino that he had come to take an oral French 

test, but Marino asked him to return later. He did return, almost 

immediately. During his absence he retrieved his gun and one of his six 

32-round clips.<P>



Forensic investigators later test-fired Nicholas's gun repeatedly, 

inserting each of his clips. Of the six, this one alone proved faulty. It 

misfed rounds to the gun, but only to a point about halfway down the 

magazine, the fifteen-round point, where it began feeding bullets 

correctly. Before he was stopped that morning, Nicholas fired fifteen 

rounds.<P>



Marino had his back to Nicholas when the boy announced, "I have this 

really neat toy I want to show you."<P>



Nicholas fired once through a window.<P>



Marino, shocked at the roar behind him, turned. His first thought was that 

the gun was indeed only a toy, and he told Nicholas to hand it over. But 

Nicholas coolly took aim. The teacher raised a French textbook as a 

shield. (Adams told me that victims of gunplay hold up articles of all 

kinds in their last moments, in the magical belief that even a sheet of 

paper might save them.) Nicholas fired again, the shot blowing through the 

textbook as if it were made of foam, though it didn't hit Marino.<P>



He fired a third time. This bullet ripped into Marino's shoulder.<P>



Susan Allen bolted past Nicholas and down the trailer steps, with Nicholas 

following. She had the good sense to run serpentine fashion, like a 

character in a Grade B war movie, as Nicholas fired shot after shot at her 

back, sweeping the courtyard with a back-and-forth motion, stopping his 

pursuit now and then to clear a jammed cartridge. The sound was deafening, 

for both Allen and Nicholas. Her ears rang. His hurt.<P>



She reached the end of the courtyard. With nowhere else to go, she made a 

sharp turn around the end of a trailer. Something struck her with shocking 

force and she fell to the ground. She had sprinted face-first into a 

utility shed. Breathless and petrified, she wriggled under the trailer. 

"It was not the smartest thing to do, if you think about it," Adams told 

me.<P>



But two things distracted Nicholas. A loud thumping noise nearby, and 

Marino, who had risen and was clinging now to the doorjamb of his 

trailer.<P>



"All of a sudden, there he was again," Marino recalled. Nicholas aimed a 

bit lower this time. The "gun that made the 80s roar" roared again. There 

was an elliptical flare. The bullet penetrated Marino's abdomen and 

catapulted him backward into the room.<P>



The thumping got louder. Nicholas knew the noise--he had heard it before 

during a class, when kids in a trailer across the courtyard had been 

playing a game to see who could stamp hardest on the floor of the 

trailer.<P>



In this case, however, the thumping was the sound made as terrified 

students scrambled to the rear of the trailer. On any other Friday, 

Nicholas would have been in that trailer, attending the Bible class taught 

by H. Maurice Matteson, "Hutch," the church's youth pastor.<P>



Nicholas climbed the steps and tried the door, but someone inside had 

locked it. "I don't know how I got in," Nicholas told Adams. "I did not 

shoot the door. I did not shoot the door or the knob itself. I shot the 

glass in the door. I don't know how I got it open....when I shot the 

glass, I guess it shaked the door and got it open."<P>



Once inside, he spotted Billy Cutter. "I know I said his name," Nicholas 

said. "I don't remember exactly what I said about him, because I was 

mad."<P>



Others, however, do recall: "Billy Cutter," Nicholas said, "this is for 

you. I'm going to kill you."<P>



Nicholas leveled the gun at Billy as three dozen other kids huddled at the 

far end of the trailer, weeping and praying.<P>



Nicholas pulled the trigger.<P>



The gun jammed. The magazine apparently had misfed another round.<P>

He struggled to clear the jam, succeeded, and raised the gun again, just 

as Hutch Matteson charged.<P>



Nicholas fired one last round. It blew harmlessly past Matteson's head.<P>



Matteson tackled him, forcing him to the floor. "What in the world would 

make you want to do something like this?" Matteson screamed.<P>



"They hate me," Nicholas said.<P>



Police and medical help arrived soon afterward. An ambulance took Marino 

to the hospital. George Sweet, the senior pastor of the Atlantic Shores 

Baptist Church, followed to be with Marino, who, for good reason, was 

convinced he was going to die.<P>



At school the faculty gathered everyone together in the church auditorium 

for a head count. Many students, among them Will and Lora Farley, still 

didn't know what had happened. "I was, like, wondering where my mom was," 

Lora recalled, before a dead-quiet courtroom. Her mother was Karen Farley, 

a teacher. "We weren't really concerned or anything, but when I first 

entered the auditorium, this girl said to me--me and my friends were 

laughing and stuff because we didn't really think anything was going 

on--and this girl said to me, 'Someone has been shot,' and it wasn't my 

mom. It was another teacher, and I was like--I couldn't understand. I was 

like, Somebody has been shot at school?'<P>



"We prayed and stuff that everything would be all right, and then we just, 

like, left it up to the Lord. We just sat there really being quiet and 

stuff. I asked Will--I said, 'Have you seen Mom?'<P>



"And he said, 'No.'"<P>



One teacher told her that her mother was tending to the wounded teacher; 

another said that she was comforting a teacher who'd been chased. "I was 

like, 'Well, that sounds right too. I can see her doing both of them, but 

I don't know how she could do it at the same time.'"<P>



A teacher asked Will and Lora to come out into the hall. "And one of my 

teachers was standing there and she was staring off down the--like out 

into where all the trailers were. She like gave me a hug and then they 

said, 'Take them back in the auditorium.'<P>



"So we went back in the auditorium, and then about ten or twenty minutes 

later, they came and got us and they took us into Pastor Sweet's office, 

and my pastor was there, and they never said that, you know, your mom has 

been shot or your mom is dead. They just--my pastor was crying, and then, 

I mean, we just sort of knew what had happened."<P>



One of Sweet's colleagues had reached Sweet at the hospital. "George," he 

said, "you need to get back here right away."<P>



"Why?" Sweet asked.<P>



"They found Karen Farley, and she's dead."<P>



Bill Farley, Karen's husband, learned of her death about one o'clock that 

afternoon, from his own pastor and a policewoman.<P>



The police had not found Karen Farley until ninety minutes after the 

shootings, after the head count showed her missing. They discovered her 

body in a locked trailer; she was still wearing her winter coat. The first 

bullet struck her forearm before entering her torso, suggesting to 

investigators that she had raised her hand either to ask for the gun or to 

plead for her life, or perhaps merely in another of those magical efforts 

to defend against the bullet. Nicholas stood over her and shot her again, 

firing downward--"execution-style," as the press delighted in saying. It 

was then, apparently, that he moved on to Sam Marino's trailer.<P>



The next night Lora and a friend picked out what Lora's mother would wear 

for her funeral. They also wrapped Christmas presents that Karen Farley 

had hidden in a closet. Months later Lora and Will would find another 

cache of presents hidden away. Nicholas pleaded guilty to first-degree 

murder and was sentenced to life in prison.<P>



The more Bill Farley learned about the gun Nicholas had used and how he 

had acquired it, the more angry he became. Farley keeps a handgun for home 

defense; even Karen Farley practiced with it. But, Farley says, the Cobray 

is different. "There's just no reason for those kinds of weapons to be 

sold in the United States," he told me one recent evening. "If you need 

something like that to protect your home, you better move."<P>



He filed a negligence and product-liability suit against Guns Unlimited 

and S. W. Daniel, Inc.--one of a growing number of such suits being 

brought in courthouses around the country, including one filed by the 

family of the actress Rebecca Schaeffer, the murdered co-star of My Sister 

Sam, against the dealer who sold the murder weapon. The jury ordered Guns 

Unlimited to pay Bill Farley and his children $105,000. "I guess what I 

really wanted to do was get the attention of the gun shop, and say, Hey, 

you all did something wrong," Farley told me. "Just because ATF didn't do 

anything to you doesn't mean a thing. You shouldn't have done it."<P>



Long before the trial, the Virginia court cut S. W. Daniel free of the 

case. Judge John K. Moore argued that reigning legal theories concerning 

negligence and product liability dictate that the "plaintiff must first 

show 'goods were unreasonably dangerous for [the] use to which they would 

ordinarily be put or for some other reasonably foreseeable purpose.'" 

Farley, he wrote, hadn't made any allegation that the gun was defective.<P>



Even if he had, his argument might have failed.

"Unfortunately," Judge Moore wrote, "the weapon worked."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>A</font>t the time of the shootings, business was brisk for 

James Dick and Guns Unlimited--so brisk that within a year Dick expanded 

the Guns Unlimited empire and added his third store.  One must be cool 

indeed to be a gun dealer.  The site Dick chose was a small shopping plaza 

on Kempsville Road in Virginia Beach.  The Atlantic Shores Christian School 

was across the street.<P>





	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<blockquote> This article was later expanded into a book called <i>Lethal

Passage</i>   published by Crown in 1994 and Vintage in 1995.  </blockquote>

<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1993 by Erik Larson.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; January 1993; Not  to  be  reproduced in any form 

without permission of the author. He can be contacted c/o <i>The Atlantic Monthly.</i> The Story of a Gun; Volume 271, No. 

1; pages 48-78.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-9</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA043-000790-B028-354</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/atlweb/poetry/antholog/lux/shades.htm 205.216.101.132 19970118054234 text/html 3509
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Sat, 18 Jan 1997 05:42:33 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Fri, 08 Nov 1996 16:47:02 GMT
Content-length: 3304
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html> 

<head> 					

<!--POEM TITLE-->

<title>Torn Shades</title> 

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff>



<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->



<center>



			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->



<a href="../../../../images/headbar.map"> <img 

src="../../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 BORDER=0 

alt="The Atlantic Monthly"></a>

<p>

</center>



									<!--ARTICLE RUBRIC-->



<font size=+2><b>Poetry</b> -- </font><i><b>November 1996</i></b>



							<!-- end textual rubric-->



									<!--BYLINE-->



<br><font size=4><b>by <A 

HREF="../../../../issues/96nov/contrib.htm#Lux">Thomas Lux</A></b></font><p> 

<BR>



							

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=15>

<TR>

<TD WIDTH=25% VALIGN=TOP>



			<!--AUDIO LINKS-->



<hr size=1>

<br>



<font size=2>

Hear Thomas Lux read "Torn Shades" (in <A 

HREF="http://www.realaudio.com">RealAudio 2.0)</A>:<p>



<a href="shades28.ram">RA 28.8</a>, 



<a href="shades14.ram">RA 14.4</a> <P>



You can also <A 

HREF="shades.au">download</A> the reading (.AU/550 K).<p>



(For help, 

see <A HREF="../../audio.htm">a note about the audio</A>.)<p>

</font>



<hr size=1>



</TD>

<TD WIDTH=75% VALIGN=TOP>



								<!--TITLE-->



	<h3>

	TORN SHADES

	</h3>

	<br>

							<!--SINGLE-SPACE POEMS USING br NOT P-->



								

How, in the first place, did<BR>

they get torn -- pulled down hard<BR>

too many times: to hide a blow,<BR>

or sex, or a man<BR>

in stained pajamas? The tear blade-shaped,<BR>

serrated, in tatters. And once,<BR>

in a house flatside to a gas station, <BR>

as snow fell at a speed and angle you could lean on,<BR>

two small hands (a patch of throat, a whip<BR>

of hair across her face) -- <BR>

two small hands<BR>

parting a torn shade<BR>

to welcome a wedge of gray sunlight into that room.<P>

	

<br>

<BR>

							<!--INSERT TEXT UP TO HERE-->

							

						<!-- end article -->



</TD>

</TR>

</TABLE>



Also by Thomas Lux: <A HREF="houses.htm">He Has Lived in Many Houses</A> 

(July 1996); <A HREF="surfaces.htm">Gorgeous Surfaces</A> (May 1994); <A 

HREF="virgule.htm">Virgule</A> (January 1992); <A HREF="snake.htm">Snake 

Lake</A> (December 1984).<p>



Go to the <A 

HREF="../aaindx.htm">Audible Anthology</A> contents.  <br> 

Go to the <A 

HREF="../../poetpage.htm">Poetry Pages</A> contents.  <p>









<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1996 by The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>



The Atlantic Monthly; November 1996; Torn Shades; 

Volume 278, No.  5; page 66.<BR>

</font>

<hr><br>



<!--FOOTER-->



<center>



<A HREF="../../../../images/footer.map"> <IMG 

SRC="../../../../images/footer.gif" ISMAP WIDTH=468 HEIGHT=25 

BORDER=0></A><br>



<font size=2>

<a href="../../../../home.htm">Home</a> | <a 

href="../../../../election/connection/">Election Connection</a> | <a 

href="../../../../issues/current/contents.htm">The Magazine</a> | <a 

href="../../../ootoc.htm">Atlantic Unbound</a> |

<a href="../../../../xchg/xchgindx.htm">The Exchange</a> | 

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">Search</a></center> <br>

</font>



</center>



</BODY>

</HTML>





	

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-10</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B030-182</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/rauchf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117190859 text/html 40274
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:08:44 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:35 GMT
Content-length: 40068
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>Is the Deficit Really So Bad?</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>February 1989</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





Is the Deficit Really So Bad?</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by Jonathan Rauch</font></center>

<br>

<br><p>



<p>



<blockquote>



<i><font size=4>This question is raised by the fact that none of the bad things the

deficit was supposed to cause has happened yet</i></font><p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>T</font><font size=3>his time four years ago the country's financial situation was a mess. The

United States had embarked on an exercise in fiscal adventurism unlike any it

had ever tried, outside wartime or depression, and the numbers looked shocking:

from 1981 to 1984 the federal budget deficit had more than doubled, to a

startling $185 billion, and the projections showed things getting worse fast. A

new presidential term was just beginning; members of the policy-making

establishment in Washington were resolved to put the budgetary fire out for

good. (This should sound familiar right about now.) In the midst of this near

panic over the deficit Charles L. Schultze, who had been the chairman of the

(Council of Economic Advisers under President Jimmy Carter, was telling anyone

who would listen something that few people understood just then. "The tragedy,"

he said at the time, "is that there is no crisis." With any luck and some

sensible management by the administration and the Federal Reserve Board, there

would be no depression, no collapse, no caving in of the economic roof under

the weight of the spectacular near-doubling of the national debt in only four

years. The country could muddle through with these deficits for a long time, a

possibility that Schultze, a fierce anti-deficit "hawk," acknowledged but

fretted about.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Balanced budgets, it has been said, are the economic equivalent of chicken

soup: whatever ails you, reduce the deficit. In the 1930s Herbert Hoover blamed

the budget deficit for prolonging the Depression; in the 1970s people blamed it

for inflation. Earlier in this decade people said that the budget deficit would

drive up interest rates and abort the economic recovery, and that it would

overstimulate the economy and re-ignite inflation; they have accused it of

pushing up the dollar, and more recently of making the dollar weak. They have

said that it would certainly bring upon us a day of reckoning of one kind or

another-- a recession, a world financial crash, a big inflation, a crunching of

the standard of living. Everybody waited. Nothing happened. The stock market

crashed, but the economy glided on with eerie aplomb. The expansion, one of the

longest of the postwar era, continued. Inflation stayed under control.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Gradually the wisdom of Schultze's words is coming home. Many professional

economists have long agreed with Schultze about the deficit, albeit in a quiet,

don't-remind-us kind of way. The full import of what they were saying is at

last seeping into the consciousness of the public and of the Washington

political establishment. Something terrible may yet happen, but with each year

in which it does not, the case for regarding the budget deficit as an economic

crisis weakens.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Telling people that they had better balance the budget, or else, is fine--

for a time. But it is like telling your son that he'd better stop smoking, or

cigarettes will kill him: after a while, when "or else" hasn't happened, the

deterrent effect of the warning wears off, and there is little to replace it.

The credibility of the deficits-are-disastrous school is shot, which leaves

everybody wondering what it is, after all, that we are so worked up about.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The President and Congress will soon be working on a package of deficit

reductions, just as they have been doing for most of the past six years-- with

some success: what were rapidly rising $200 billion deficits four years ago are

stable or slightly declining $150 billion deficits today. In Washington the

anxiety level has decreased in the past year or two, partly because the worst

deficits are behind us but also partly because, after seven years in which the

country broke every fiscal rule in the book and nothing terrible happened, it

is harder to see why we had the rules in the first place. Conservatives and

liberals have formed an unlikely alliance whose binding principle is that

cutting the budget deficit is not, after all, the most important thing in life

(they could, however, hardly be further apart on what is the most important

thing in life). People in the middle, who have a gut feeling that what the

country has been doing is wrong, are left to gnaw on a question: Is the deficit

really so bad?<p>



<p>



<p>



     Maybe it is time to admit that running a big budget deficit is a

survivable condition. Deficits do matter, a lot. But to see why they matter,

one must use economics to look past economics, to the social compact.<p>



<br>



<b>A Recession Spread Over the Rest of Time</b><p>



<p>



<p>



     In the early 1970s, for reasons that remain obscure, the rate of

productivity growth dropped off sharply in the United States and the other

major industrial countries. Suddenly a given amount of national work effort was

producing a smaller gain in living standards. A country can deal with something

like that in a number of ways. It can increase its work effort if, for

instance, millions of women go to work, as happened in the United States.

Another thing it can do is borrow.<p>



<p>



<p>



     There is nothing wrong with borrowing, as such. It is how you use the

money you borrow that counts. If you borrow and invest wisely, your investment

will generate a stream of future income; you can use that stream of income to

repay your debt, and you will probably still have a good bit of money left

over. It is something else again if you just spend the borrowed money to

maintain your standard of living. Then you are merely deferring pain; you are

better off at first, but worse off in the future, once you start having to pay

back what you owe In the 1980s the United States government deferred a lot of

pain.<p>



<p>



<p>



     A budget deficit, to begin with the obvious, is the difference between the

amount taken in in a year and the amount spent. If the government spends $1

trillion but takes in only $850 billion, as it did, approximately, in fiscal

1987, it has to borrow the difference. The place it goes to borrow (if we

ignore for the moment the possibility of receiving help from abroad) is the

national pool of savings available for investment. Later on, to pay the

interest on the additional debt it has assumed (interest claims almost twice as

much of the federal budget as it did ten years ago), the government must raise

taxes or, if it wishes to escape part of its obligation by repaying the debt in

debased currency, crank up inflation. Either step makes future Americans less

well off than they would otherwise have been, unless the government invested

what it borrowed in ways that made the country more productive. It didn't. The

deficits of the early 1980s enabled the country, without an offsetting tax

increase, to build up its defenses and to continue to pay for programs that

distribute benefits to the middle class. In short, deficits financed

consumption.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Economists initially feared that the enormous budget deficits might well

squeeze out national investment while also setting off another round of

inflation, by overstimulating the economy with spending. To hold inflation

down, Paul Volcker's Federal Reserve kept money tight. Partly for that reason,

interest rates, after adjusting for inflation, have been higher in this decade

than at any time since at least the 1920s. This has helped make the country an

attractive place for foreign investment. So, as things turned out, the

government's borrowing did not reduce investment in this country much, because

se foreign money rushed in to fill the gap. But since the investment belongs to

foreigners, who capture most or much of the returns, the future living standard

of Americans is lower than it would have been if we had saved and invested more

ourselves.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The numbers here are revealing. In the 1960s and 1970s net private

American saving averaged 8.1 percent of the gross national product. Saving by

state and local governments kicked in an additional 0.4 percent of GNP, but the

federal government, by running deficits, contributed negative saving of 1.0

percent of GNP. Add that up (8.1 plus 0.4 minus 1.0) and you get 7.5 as the

percentage of GNP available for domestic investment. In fact we invested only

7.0 percent of GNP here. The other half a percent we invested abroad: we were

net creditors.<p>



<p>



<p>



     That was pretty much the situation in this country over the whole postwar

period, until the 1980s. Then our behavior changed markedly. Take 1987, when

the budget deficit was actually somewhat below its 1980s average. State and

local surpluses had risen to 1.2 percent of GNP, but that was the only positive

development for saving. The private sector saved a lot less, and so, by running

higher deficits, did the federal sector. Private saving in 1987 was 4.1 percent

of GNP, or about half the level of the 1960s and 1970s, and the federal budget

deficit was 3.5 percent of GNP, or more than three times the previous average.

When you total this up (4. 1 plus 1.2 minus 3.5), you get only 1.8 as the

percentage of GNP available for investment here-- less than a quarter of the

amount that was available in the sixties and seventies. Still, investment in

the United States amounted to 5.1 percent of GNP, courtesy of the Japanese and

the Europeans: we borrowed a sum equal to 3..3 percent of our GNP from them.<p>



<p>



<p>



     It would have been one thing if Americans had offset, or mostly offset,

the rise in the federal budget deficit by saving more privately: we would just

have been moving our savings from one pocket to another. But private saving and

federal saving both fell. That, in a nutshell, is the story of the 1980s. Now,

at some point every person decides how much of the fruits of his labor he wants

to enjoy today and how much he wants to set aside to add to his (or his

children's) wealth tomorrow. The same goes for countries. If you ask where the

right place is to draw the line between current and future consumption, the

answer is that there is no right place. You have to choose.<p>



<p>



<p>



     This is where the world-is-ending analysis begins: we have consumed more

and saved less today, we will be less well off tomorrow than we would have

been, and therefore we will be poor tomorrow and we are ruining ourselves. The

statistics on the point, however, are unlikely to incite panic. Exact figures,

or anything like them, are impossible to obtain. But you can get a pretty good

idea of the magnitudes involved.<p>



<p>



<p>



     From the time the big deficits started, in 1982, through 1987, the

government borrowed about $1.1 trillion--a lot of money. If the deficits had

been proportional to the average of those of 1960-1981, a little more than 1.5

percent of GNP, the government's borrowing from 1982 to 1987 would have been

about $350 billion or about $750 billion less than it was. Most of that $750

billion, instead of being sopped up by government consumption, would have been

added to Americans' stock of invested wealth, and would be augmenting future

income. We lost some of the returns on the $750 billion in the form of interest

payments to foreigners who invested here (the interest rate during the 1980s

was roughly 10 percent), and some of them in the form of investment that the

United States simply did without. The returns here, too, economists say, would

have been something like 10 percent a year. So we are talking about a reduction

in future American income on the order of $75 billion a year, forever.<p>



<p>



<p>



     A good way to think about what all these numbers mean is this: to have

consumed an extra $750 billion in wealth, which might have yielded annual

returns of $75 billion or so a year forever, is roughly comparable to throwing

a party today in exchange for accepting a serious recession spread out over the

rest of time. In an interview late last year Schultze said, "It's like adding

one more recession to forever." If we were to go on the same way for another

$750 billion, we would add another recession to forever. And so on. We could

probably do that several times before we noticed much of a difference in any

particular year.<p>



<p>



<p>



     If the figures are not so scary as the rhetoric, maybe that should not be

surprising. Changes in economic policy that are enormous in relation to the

federal budget-- tripling the budget deficit, say-- are small in relation to a

$5 trillion economy. Schultze said, "There are two broad ways the government

can affect the economy. On the demand side, it can screw up economic stability,

so we have recessions, a war, or inflation, leading to a future recession. You

make a mistake and you really can see it. You can get big numbers. However, on

the supply side"--that is, in matters like saving and investment, which affect

the economy's capacity to produce goods and services over the long run-- "the

short-to medium-term identifiable good or harm the government can do with any

one thing it does is always small. You can never get those numbers to come out

big in any one year." And so it is with the budget deficit: "If I do the

arithmetic, it's never going to be a number that's going to shock you"--at

least, not unless cumulated over many years. Schultze was not, however, saying

that the deficit is unimportant. "Tenths of a percent add up," he warned.  <p>



<p>



<p>



     In the early 1980s the deficits were growing so quickly that they

threatened to swamp the government with upward-spiraling interest payments.

That threat is past. The current deficits are large, but they are on an

arithmetically stable track. The upshot is that we could probably go on running

large government budget deficits for a very long time, but at a price: higher

risks of two kinds. First, a big deficit, like anything else that makes

investors nervous, probably subtracts from the margin of economic stability. In

the immediate wake of the election Wall Street was particularly worried that

foreigners could lose confidence in our economy and cut off our line of credit,

exposing the United States to possible big interest-rate shocks and to a

collapse of the dollar. Still, a higher-risk policy does not necessarily mean

that we are on a course to disaster. We can fairly say that it would be a good

idea to avoid running a budget deficit, other things being equal, in order to

reduce the likelihood of crisis. What we cannot say--but what many people,

particularly on Wall Street, say nonetheless--is that there is a more than

slight chance that U.S. budget deficits will lead to frightening short-term

consequences.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The more fundamental risk is the one inherent in borrowing to consume.

Regardless of the deficit, new technology and rising productivity will almost

certainly make our children somewhat richer than we are-- the question is how

much richer. If the country's wealth grows a lot, the effects of today's

deficits will hardly be noticeable, but if growth is slow, future generations

may curse us for taking from them what they will have turned out to need. That

is the risk we take. Herbert Stein, another past chairman of the council of

Economic Advisers and today one of Washington's most experienced and wisest

economic thinkers, said not long ago, "My preference would be not to have an

increase in American consumption, or not so much of an increase in American

consumption. I'd rather see more investment, because I feel some obligation to

my grandchildren. But it seems to me that that's about all there is to it. It's

that kind of choice It is not a matter of ruin or collapse. It's the same kind

of choice that an individual makes when he decides how much to save."<p>



<p>



<p>



     In the economics profession the conventional view right now is similar to

Schultze's: that the country's most urgent economic need is to get the deficit

down, and maybe even run federal surpluses, in order to get saving up. "The one

thing we know we can do to gin up productivity growth---  not by very much,

but, by God, we know w e can do it--- is to save and invest more," Schultze

said. "Precisely because government can't do much, we ought to damn well do

what we know how to do." A growing number of people, however, are challenging

the Schultze view.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<br>



<p>



<b>The Case for the Deficit</b><p>



<p>



<p>



     Hardly anyone actually likes deficit spending in prosperous times. But, as

Herbert Stein has said, nobody likes open-heart surgery either. The question

is, What's the alternative? On the Republican right many people have come to

see deficits as less risky than any of the other available choices. On the

Democratic left opinion has taken a similar drift in the past year or two.

Conservatives would rather have deficits than bigger government; liberals would

rather have deficits than smaller government. In the middle are those, like

Schultze, who say that the first priority should be reducing the deficit and

never mind about the size of government-- but that middle has been shrinking as

the deficits themselves have stabilized and set up regular housekeeping.<p>



<p>



<p>



     It used to be Republicans who shrieked about deficits and Democrats who

said they were not such a big deal. Republicans have accused Democrats of

turning around in their tracks on the issue and caring about budget deficits

only after a Republican President starts running them. There is something to

that, although Reagan's deficits were unlike anything the country had ever seen

before outside depression or war. If anything, the reversal of conservative

Republicans was more striking. In 1981 Jack Kemp, who was then a congressman,

announced, "The Republican Party no longer worships at the altar of a balanced

budget." Conservatives were once people who instinctively felt that the budget

should be balanced, even if that meant raising taxes. Now they are people who

tend to believe that taxes should be held down, even if that means living with

deficits.<p>



<p>



<p>



     A good way to get inside their point of view is to visit Stuart M.

Butler's office on Capitol Hill. Butler, a quick and forthright thinker, is in

charge of domestic-policy studies at the conservative Heritage Foundation.

Prominently displayed on his office wall is a framed picture of the economist

Milton Friedman, beneath which is this quotation, from a talk Friedman gave in

1983: "You cannot reduce the deficit by raising taxes. Increasing taxes only

results in more spending, leaving the deficit at the highest level conceivably

accepted by the public." Over the past decade or so that idea has become gospel

to many conservatives, Butler among them.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Like all public policy," Butler said in a recent interview, "it's a choice

between alternatives. It's not that I love deficits. But I like to know what

are the alternatives we're talking about. And the alternatives that have been

proffered by Schultze and others I do not find attractive. I find them arguably

leading to even less desirable economic consequences in the future. They open

up, I feel, a political dynamic that might even be self-defeating"-- that is,

tax increases would be used to increase spending and not to reduce the budget

deficit.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Butler and other conservatives argue that deficits are the symptom, not

the disease. The disease is runaway federal spending. "There had been a rapid

increase, prior to Reagan, of both spending and taxing. What Reagan has

essentially done has been to top out or slow down the rising taxes. You had two

runaway elements of public finance, spending and taxes. We've got control of

one of them, taxes, and the deficit is the symptom of the fact that we haven't

got control of the other. So the solution is to get rid of that other runaway

item, which is the spending side. "<p>



<p>



<p>



     Suppose you offer Butler a deal: Reduce the budget deficit-- say, by $100

billion-- with a package that includes a substantial tax increase. He won't

take it, even if you stipulate that all of the tax increase goes toward

lowering the deficit and none goes toward increasing spending. "I think the

negative impact on future generations of raising taxes would be higher than the

impact of borrowing," he said. In other words, it may well be better for the

economy, given the current burden of taxation, to continue borrowing than to

raise taxes. The idea is that we are merely talking about subtle differences of

economic effect when we choose between taxing and borrowing to finance the

government, and it is not clear which is actually worse for the economy.

Finally-- and this is the argument that really infuriates liberals--

conservatives believe they get something in return for the budget deficit: "I

see the deficit as a wedge to put the pressure on public spending," Butler

says. "If you're looking at the deficit and the size of the government sector,

the second measure"--the size of government--"is far more important in its

overall economic impact, and I think everyone who is in the conservative camp

who is less bothered about deficits would pretty much agree with that line of

argument." So if in return for higher deficits we get a smaller government, it

is a good trade.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Economics can't be used to prove Butler wrong, but there are certainly

ample grounds for skepticism. Few economists would dispute that, everything

else being equal, raising taxes is not generally good for the economy. The

evidence is scant, however, for the proposition that raising taxes is worse

than borrowing. We just don't know-- and in such circumstances the usual

presumption is that one ought to pay one's bills.<p>



<p>



<p>



     As for where a tax increase would go, some of it probably would be used to

increase spending--but hardly all of it (the tax increases of 1982 and 1983,

the latter a large one to keep the Social Security program solvent, played a

major role in stabilizing the monster deficits of the early 198Os). Most people

part ways with the conservatives in being willing to accept somewhat higher

spending in exchange for lower deficits. Also, it is not at all clear that

running deficits has held down government spending much. After all, the Reagan

years set two postwar records simultaneously: for highest peacetime deficits

(an average of 4.7 percent of GNP from 1982 through 1988, higher than in any

preceding postwar year), and for highest spending (an average of 23.4 percent

of GNP over the same period--  again, higher than in any preceding postwar

year). A lot of economists, many of them conservative, have long believed that

raising taxes, not cutting them, is the best way to constrain spending in the

long run, because it forces politicians to impose pain if they want to give out

goodies.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Alas, the economic evidence is not strong enough to settle the argument.

We do not know how big the government would have been without the large Reagan

deficits, and we do not know how a tax increase or a like amount of borrowing

would cascade through the economy to affect generations still unborn. And all

of that is finally beside the point. If what you most want is smaller

government or lower taxes, then budget deficits are a secondary concern.

Something analogous may be said for the emerging thinking on the left, which

turns the conservative argument on its head and says: A more aggressive

government presence in the economy is vital to economic success, and if

strengthening that presence means running a budget deficit, then so be it.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Some economists on the left, including Robert L. Heilbroner, of the New

School for Social Research, in New York, hold that large Budget deficits are

actually a good thing, as long as they stay under control. "When the economy

needs stimulus, a deficit can be very useful," Heilbroner said recently. "Right

now, I'm not terribly impressed by the overall rate of growth of the economy."

These days, however, that position is rare. What is not so rare among liberals

is the idea that there are three things we need to do for the national economy:

avoid a recession; make additional investments in education, research,

infrastructure (roads, bridges, and other public goods that have been allowed

to deteriorate), and so on; and reduce the budget deficit. The budget deficit

is third on their list.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Jeff Faux, the president of the Economic Policy Institute, a new liberal

Washington think tank, has become a leading proponent of this emerging liberal

view. "I think deficits do matter," he said not long ago. "But I think that

other things matter as well. The problem with the debate is that it has become

dangerously oversimplified, as if all our problems could be resolved by simply

erasing the fiscal deficit. I think that's wrong economically, and I think it

risks what could be a very, very disastrous outcome-- that is, a recession.

It's not possible to have a recession next time. That is, if we have a

downturn, it's going to turn into something worse"-- because of the large

amounts of debt hanging over the world financial system. "We're talking about a

long economic bath for America, the likes of which we haven't seen since the

1930s."<p>



<p>



<p>



     Not everyone on the left goes along with Faux there, but liberals have

traditionally worried more about unemployment than about inflation, and so they

are generally averse to doing anything that they think might bring on a

recession-- which, as Faux points out, would just increase the deficit anyway,

as tax receipts fell off and welfare spending rose. Faux and many liberals

think that rapid deficit reductions could easily trigger a downturn. "Given the

dangers of recession and what it can do," Faux said, "if you're going to take a

risk, take it on the side of keeping the economy going."<p>



<p>



<p>



     Next on the priority list comes investment. Faux said, "We've got this

sort of Catch-22. It's almost become a clich&eacute; that we've got to invest

more, and we have to do that in order to make our economy competitive. But we

can't do that because we've got this budget deficit, which in part is a result

of our not being competitive. So we keep putting off what I think are these

essential investments. At some point we have to realize that the neglect of

certain public investments has gone on for so long that it's absolutely

essential that we make those investments. When your tires run out, you need new

tires." In effect, we can say that today's budget deficit makes our children

worse off than they might have been-- but how much worse for them still if we

let the nation's stock of human and public physical capital fall into

disrepair, or if the government fails to help us compete successfully with the

Japanese. Suppose, then, that you offer Faux a deal: $100 billion, say, in new

government spending on education, fighting poverty, building infrastructure and

the rest, all of which must be financed by borrowing and thus adding to the

deficit. He would take it.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Like the conservative argument, the liberal argument is credible but far

from incontestable, and there are lots of grounds on which to question Faux's

viewpoint. First, the big concern for most economists over the past year has

been not that a recession would start any minute but just the contrary-- that

inflation might be about to take off. If that is the case, then reducing the

budget deficit would be just what the doctor ordered. Anyway, liberals, like

conservatives, tend to overstate the government's effect on the economy: the

deficit fell by $70 billion from 1986 to l987, and nothing much happened at

all. There is good reason to suppose that no deficit reduction that Congress

might muster the will to pass would trigger a recession, especially since the

Fed could offset some of the deficit reductions with lower interest rates.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Second, and more fundamentally, the Achilles' heel of the liberal argument

is inflation. In the past, efforts to keep the economy going at whatever cost

have usually led to inflation, which then led to a recession when the Fed

clamped down. To a large degree, that is what happened under Presidents

Johnson, Nixon, and Carter. So, arguably, the liberals' plan does not prevent a

recession, and might in fact bring one about. Liberals argue that a rapid

inflation is now unlikely; many analysts on Wall Street say just the opposite;

the truth is that nobody knows. Finally, practically no one disputes that

borrowing is fine if it is used to make: good investments. But the key word

there is good. A lot of people-- especially conservatives-- look dubiously on

the idea that the government will make good investments, given the pressures of

politics, and they are very skeptical indeed that the government's investments

will generally be better than the ones the private sector would have made had

it held on to the money that the government, with its budget deficits,

borrowed.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Neither faction can prove its own economic assumptions or disprove those

of the other side. Economics has produced no generally accepted answer to the

question, What is the best mixture of taxation and borrowing by which to

finance a given level of government spending? In the absence of an answer,

people are using economic rhetoric to conduct a debate that economics cannot

settle-- a political and ideological debate over what it is that government

should and should not be doing, and what risks are worth taking to achieve that

goal. It was always so. The anti-deficit people who kept crying wolf, and who

are still crying wolf, have done themselves and the polity no favor. They have

tried to turn the fiscal-policy debate into a one-sided argument, to the effect

that anybody who cared about the country's economic health had only one

rational choice: cut the budget deficit. In the end they have undermined their

own position by claiming too much, and have left the country confused and

adrift on the question of why we make such a fuss about deficit spending.<p>



<p>



<p>



     We do make a fuss, and we have for decades-- centuries, really. The

balanced-budget dogma goes back to nearly the beginning of the republic. Only

relatively recently, since Franklin Roosevelt's administration, have people

taken to seeing the desirability or undesirability of deficits as mainly an

economic question. For a long time Americans had what is probably a better kind

of debate over deficit spending: a political and moral debate. For it is on

political and moral grounds that we balance budgets.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<br>



<b>The Sign of a Covenant</b><p>



<p>



<p>



The imperative to balance the budget is, at bottom, a rule, like any other.

People can and do argue all day about what rule is best on economic grounds--

balance the budget, balance it over the course of a business cycle, hold the

ratio of the national debt to GNP constant. But whatever we decide, what we are

finally talking about is a rule of social behavior, like the rules about

property--a rule defining the nature of what it is people are doing together

and how they agree to treat each other, today and over time. The enforcement of

a rule does not tell you that everybody is playing the right game, so to speak,

but it does tell you that everybody is playing the same game. In that sense, a

balanced budget represents to most people a social sign that, as the political

scientist Aaron Wildavsky once put it, things are all right. For Americans, a

balanced budget is like the rainbow of Genesis-- the sign of a covenant. "The

bow shall be seen in the clouds and I will remember my covenant."<p>



<p>



<p>



     The covenant reaches through two dimensions: up and down the political

spectrum in the present, and across the generations through time. In the

present the shared goal of balancing the budget--- the government taxes no more

than it spends, and it spends no more than it taxes-- represents a compact

between conservatives and liberals. A balanced budget is a sign for liberals

that conservatives are paying their share of taxes, and a sign for

conservatives that liberals are restraining their spending. Given that there is

general disagreement about what it is that government should he doing, a

balanced budget is a sign that we have all reached a compromise: I may not

support all the programs you like, and you may not support all the ones I like,

but we have agreed to restraint, and within that restraint, we are supporting

each other.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Republicans were appalled when Democrats, saying that we should balance

the economy rather than the budget, waved aside the zero-deficit rule earlier

in this century. Democrats, in turn, were horrified when the Reagan-era

policies raised the rule-breaking to a new order of magnitude. To the extent

that conservatives decided that they would rather have lower taxes and spending

than balanced budgets, they were saying that they would he better served by

abandoning the game than by compromising with the liberals, and they walked off

the playing field. Now many liberals, too, seem to be wandering off the field,

unwilling to make big domestic-spending cuts to get the deficit down.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The result is just what we might expect: deep and rending social division

over government's role, with an annual war between the Butlers and Fauxes of

the world tending to replace annual compromise. This has serious consequences,

not least of them friction, demoralization, and often paralysis within the

institutions of government. Large budget deficits have become an acute public

embarrassment, a sign of the country's inability to cope and of people's

unwillingness to make some sort of deal. Inability to solve the problem has

become the problem. Beyond that, the budgetary trench warfare that has

preoccupied Washington in the 1980s has frozen the liberals' social agenda and

is in the process of tearing up the conservatives' defense program. Paralysis

will not, in the long haul, do anybody much good.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Perhaps the second dimension of the covenant is more profound still.

Because economics cannot tell us what is the right amount for each generation

to save, we rely on a fiscal rule: As the previous generation did unto us, so

we will do unto the next generation, barring a war or other demand of

extraordinary urgency. If every year the budget is more or less balanced, each

year's group of voters has to pay its own way, and the burden of financing

government remains neutrally distributed among generations. A good case can be

made that neutrality is not the best policy-- but there is nothing like a

consensus on what is a better policy. And to break the long-standing covenant

with future generations is a social decision of the gravest import; no wonder

it makes Americans uneasy. Whenever one set of voters breaks the rule by

running larger-than-normal deficits, it grabs a windfall from the future. The

future may never notice the difference-- we don't know. But even so, is this

the right thing to do? Economics cannot tell us that.<p>



<p>



<p>



     "It's a matter of preference," Herbert Stein told me. "Most people save

for their children even though their children are expected to be richer than

they are. But I have no problem with someone who says, 'I don't care about

that--let my children work their own way,' if that's a deliberate choice. I

don't think that was a deliberate choice by the American people. I don't think

they realized what was going on."<p>



<p>



<p>



     Now, zero deficit is not the only possible rule. Any rule will do, as long

as everyone agrees to it and it is applied more or less uniformly over time.

Zero deficit has the advantage of being easy to explain and of being the rule,

or at least the goal, that people have lived by in this country for two

centuries; it is the rule whose rightness people feel. But we can switch if we

like. Maybe we have switched. "The rule that the budget should be balanced

obviously is not operative," Stein said. "And so I think the direction in which

we have to go now is the direction of rational choice."<p>



<p>



<p>



     We have learned in this decade that we throw away the balanced-budget rule

at great peril to our machinery of governance and our national conscience, but

we have also learned that the economy is unlikely to stop us. After seven years

of big deficits, a day of reckoning has come, all right, but it is not the kind

of day of reckoning that we have been led to expect. It is not a financial or

economic disaster: it is our confrontation with the fact that, like atheists

who must learn to set standards in a universe without divine judgment, we are

on our own with these deficits. We must choose to balance the budget, or not,

without the certainty of economic determinacy and without the prod of calamity.<p></blockquote>



<p><hr>

<blockquote>

Jonathan Rauch writes on economic-policy and agricultural issues for National Journal.

He was born in Phoenix, Arizona, and graduated from Yale University in 1982. Before

joining the staff of National Journal he wrote for the Winston-Salem Journal, in North Carolina.



</blockquote>

<hr>



<img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1989 by Jonathan Rauch.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-11</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA090-000973-B001-33</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/whitenor.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117202345 text/html 26978
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:23:33 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:53 GMT
Content-length: 26772
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The White Notherner: Pride and Prejudice

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>June 1966</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



The White Northerner:<br>

Pride and Prejudice



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Robert Coles, M.D.</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>"You'd think Negroes were the only people in America that

have a tough time,"a resentful thirty-year-old Northern mother complained to

Dr. Coles, a psychiatrist in the Harvard University Health Services, in the

course of his research into the day-to-day realities of race relations. He

found little ground for the smugness Northerners frequently display when they

talk of integration and the South.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>F</font>or decades a steady trek of Negroes from the South has increasingly confronted

the North and the Far West with race as a local, volatile problem. But it is

only recently that the North has had to face its white problem, in contrast

with that of a Negro one. The historical and political pressures working to

liberate the Negro have not been confined to the South. Negroes everywhere in

America are awakened. No longer do they stay quietly in their bulging

neighborhoods, out of everyone's way but their own. Aroused Negroes in the

South have had a clear direction to travel; there were--and even with new laws

still are--voting polls to enter, restaurants to frequent, schools to claim as

theirs too. Negroes in the North have the complaints of the poor. Even to lodge

those complaints, and certainly to make sure that those complaints lead to

changes, requires not a struggle for political rights supposedly every

American's by birth, but a direct assault on our complicated, ambiguous, not

always equitable social and economic system.<p>



Yet Negroes are not the only ones struggling for money and position in America.

In the South they alone have been excluded from a wide variety of places and

privileges, though there--and elsewhere, too--there are millions whose white

skin gives them precious little more than the Negro has. In the North such

people have not even had what is any Southern white man's consolation. "I'm

poor," a fiercely segregationist farmer in Alabama once told me, "but I'm proud

of my race, and I'd as soon die as see it contaminated." I can still see his

home, a cabin really, "two rooms and a pathway." His farm is small, and so is

his income. His children are getting neither the quality of food nor the

education this country can well afford for everyone. His wife is a tired but

determined woman. Once, a few years ago, they left their farm for the city; but

there, too, they saw hardship, and a kind of impersonal living they could not

bear. 'So we're back here. At least we can grow some food; and the niggers

aren't creeping in on us." As long as Negroes were niggers, and niggers tightly

kept in their place, the farmer was at least that much a man of property.

Millions of blacks were his.<p>



I spent a number of years in the South, trying to comprehend the feelings and

attitudes of hard-pressed yeomen like that man, as well as those of Negroes no

longer willing to sacrifice their lives and livelihood to the emotional

security of such white people. More recently I have returned North, now to

learn how Negro and white children manage under the desegregation, by busing,

of so-called de facto segregated schools. Beyond that, however, I am trying to

gain some sense of how their parents, and others like them, feel, not only

about particular problems, like the value of the neighborhood school or of

busing, but the more general matter of their racial feelings, their attitudes

toward whites or Negroes, as the case may be.<p>



In the case of the Negro families I have come to know, there is, frankly,

little new to be heard and seen. All over the country, Negroes are waging a

similar struggle, and though the Southern sector of the battle is harder, the

Northern one is no easy game either. What Negroes in both sections share is

their long-subdued rage, their finally acknowledged, freely proclaimed

frustration. They are on the march, everywhere on the march. This is their

historical moment, and it is a binding one for large numbers of them in every

region. "Every time we make a gain, anywhere, I feel it," a twelve-year-old boy

from Boston told me recently. Two years ago I heard words like that almost

daily from Negro children in Georgia and Louisiana. Even Negroes who still feel

terribly cornered or beyond that, dazed by years of hunger, uselessness, and

joblessness, manage to say what I heard from one old man in a Northern ghetto,

"It's all over for me, and a lot of others; but one thing makes me glad, every

time I think of it: it'll never be as bad again for us. It just can't be.

That's what civil rights means to me."<p>



For whites the civil rights movement has supplied no such assurance,

confidence, or new comradery. Quite the contrary, in both North and South there

has been characteristic but quite differently expressed confusion. The white

Southerner has found himself less and less that: more and more he is a

Southerner, with all the special problems every region has, who happens to be

white. "The nigras, we have to get them to cooperate with us, like everybody

else, if we're going to get more industry here and keep the city booming." Once

a convinced segregationist, in two years he had yielded one way of thinking for

another, and seemed not the slightest troubled or hurt for the exchange. In

point of fact he was only confused by his own resiliency, by an occasional

twinge of memory: "How can you say 'never' one year, then 'yes' the next? It

wasn't just that we obeyed the law. I guess it was really because we finally

got it through our heads that it was in our own best interests to do it."<p>



<font size=5>I</font>n the North and the West the issues have not been so clear-cut. It is not a

matter of swinging into line with the rest of the nation so that its laws are

obeyed, its customs followed. The rest of the nation is the North and the West,

and from Harlem to Watts, uneasy, suspicious millions present themselves, newly

aroused and aware, to the rest of us. What they demand cannot be satisfied by

compliant voting registrars or the fresh hospitality of restaurant owners. Very

poor, and long scorned, they are asking for money and power. In so doing they

stand alongside others, who have their own reasons to feel shaky, apprehensive,

and needy.<p>



Recently in Boston some Negro children were bused into neighborhood schools

serving white children, not by the city, but upon the initiative of individual

Negro parents. Indignation spread through the area. The people became aroused,

and in unusually large numbers registered their sentiments at the polls. There

is uneasy talk about a so-called "white backlash vote," waiting in the wings to

single out and dismiss summarily anyone trying to give special favor to

Negroes, most particularly by encouraging them to live and go to school in

white neighborhoods.<p>



Here are the words of a thirty-year-old woman, the mother of six. She is Irish.

Her husband works in the repair shop of a utility company. They live in a mixed

Irish and Italian neighborhood in Boston where homes vary, some modestly

comfortable and well kept. others in obvious decline. Her young children now

have several Negro children in classes with them, and though the two young boys

and the little girl do not seem to mind, their mother is quite upset.<p>







<BLOCKQUOTE>

Why do they do it? I don't understand them at all. They have their own

people just as we do, but suddenly they're not happy together. They want to go

here and there and send their children everywhere. All you hear these days is

news about them. You'd think Negroes were the only people in America that have

a tough time. What about the rest of us? Who comes here asking us how we get

by, or how we feel about what WE had to go through?<p>



My father couldn't find a job either, not a steady one, anyway. I

remember my mother telling us how he walked and walked, practically begging for

work. She said he would almost offer to work for nothing rather than sit around

home doing nothing. The day he applied for relief was the saddest day of his

life. It broke him. He hated himself ever after. He was always against taking

charity and to have to ask for it was too much for him. When the war came he

got steady work again, but my mother said he never was the same. He was always

nervous, worried about losing his job like in the thirties. He became very

tight with his money; he even hoarded pennies in a bank....He was plain scared

for the rest of his life. To be truthful, I think he died happy. It was like a

relief for him. He was very religious. He went to Mass every morning. He died

with a smile on his face and our mother, she said he had been waiting for that

day for a long time. He used to say to her that whether it was heaven or hell

the good Lord chose for him, it would be better than the worry and the trying

to make ends meet of this world.<p>



That's the trouble, though, with Negroes. They're a superstitious set.

They have no real faith, except all that shouting they do, and they only know

how to ask, not go out and earn. I know they had it bad here, but so did we

all, my father and everyone else practically, except for the rich. And it's the

rich, out there in the suburbs, who keep on telling us what we should do. They

preach at us to take them here and let them live there, and act this way to

them, and that, and so on until you get sick hearing it all. Suddenly they re

so kind, the suburban crowd. They stepped all over us, and kept us out of

everything, the Yankees and the college people over there at Harvard did. Now

they're so good. They're all excited and worried about people, but only the

Negroes get their sympathy, only them. Talking about prejudice, that's what we

face, prejudice against US. I think we should start suing in all the courts,

and marching down those streets, like the Negroes. Maybe if we had done that a

long time ago, we wouldn't still be so up against it now.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





In nearly every interview, I hear in one way or another certain common themes:

we all have it rough, the Negro being only one of many in that regard; what the

Negro calls the civil rights movement in the North is in fact an attempt to

crowd out others, from schools, jobs, and opportunities of one sort or another;

no one is entitled to anything "special," not when others have to sit by and

get little or nothing; somehow the Negro is rather devious and clever, as well

as half-witted and immoral, because he has managed to exact both sympathy and

consistent help from people--the well born, the well educated--who have ignored

the misery of other people for decades.<p>



In the South the Negro can be lived with by the white man, at very close

quarters, too. Even the poorest white man can keep company with Negroes, share

jokes and general talk with them. The white child can play with Negroes; while

growing up he can eat from their hands; as an adult he works with them every

day. The Negro's general position helps the white man feel on sure ground,

above the uncertain social and economic waters that threaten mast of us at one

time or another with feelings of worthlessness or insecurity. In the particular

situations of daily life, however, a given Negro can be depended upon, even

though, as a race, they can be excluded or looked down upon.<p>



In the North, for many white people the Negro, perhaps pitied in the past, is

now a constant topic of news and conversation. He comes upon a scene where his

presence is new. He comes upon a region with its own history of religious

prejudices and racial antagonisms, at times cloaked perhaps, but no less grim

and brutal than those the South has lived with so defiantly. While he has

aroused the concern, even the devotion, of many, to others his arrival and the

widespread solicitous response to his arrival only confirm a number of existing

fears and suspicions. Life is indeed harshly competitive; another group is

coming, and at a time when jobs may be scarce. Moreover, those who favor the

Negro and want so earnestly to aid him are the very people who care not at all

about the poor (and white) people who have been living in the cities and towns

of the North for generations, or at the least before the Negro came to stake

out his claim.<p>



A young lawyer--an aspiring politician--in an extremely poor section of Boston

spoke as follows:<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

This is a slum...but it's a white slum, so no one cares about it. There's

no glamour in white slums, only Negro ones. The suburban housewives and the Ivy

League students, they've gone poor-crazy, but only for the colored poor.

They've been pushing us around all these years before the Negroes started

coming up from the South, and now they have someone to do it for them. They do

a good job, too, the Negroes do. They act as if they own the world, just like

their friends out there in the suburbs. It's contagious, you see. The ministers

and the students come on Saturdays to tutor the Negro kids and take them to the

park. They drive right by this neighborhood without blinking an eye. We have

overcrowded schools. We have rotten buildings that should have been torn down

years ago. We have lousy parks that aren't half the size they should be. A lot

of the people here have jobs that barely give them enough to get by; and the

others, I'll tell you, are on relief or unemployment checks or veterans'

checks, or something. We have our delinquents and our dropouts--the works. Who

cares, though? Who has ever cared about this neighborhood? If we have some

alcoholics here, or people in the rackets, that shows how no good we are. If

the Negroes pull a switchblade on you and rob and steal you to the poorhouse,

that means they've been persecuted, and we have to overlook everything they do

and treat them as if they were God's gift to America. It's a two-faced business

if you ask me and it's becoming worse now that they talk about juggling our

kids around so that they're "integrated." That's when you'll get the explosion

here, when they try to move our kids across the city, or bring all those little

darkies here. We've got enough, enough of our own troubles.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





His voice was strong, sometimes strident. At first I didn't know whether he

meant everything he said, or whether he confused me with an audience in one of

his campaigns. After a few months he relaxed some with me, and though he never

really changed his views, he did become more philosophical:<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

I don't hate Negroes. A lot of people in this district do, but it's a

recent thing, and I agree that the real trouble isn't the Negroes, though they

sure manage to irritate people. I think a lot of this trouble between Negroes

and whites will last until the whole setup in the cities changes. Probably it's

true the race issue has made it better in the long run for the poor white man

as well as the Negro. You can't sit here and see others demanding jobs

without...wondering why you don't have one either, or if you do, why it pays so

little, or gives you nothing if you're fired or retire.<p>



I don't think we'll get through it without trouble, though. My people

really are sensitive to this thing now, and unless the whole country changes,

and we get as good a break as every Negro seems to think he's entitled to, then

there will be resentment, and you'll have what they call the 'backlash.'<p>



I admit a politician is in a bind over this. He can try to lead his

people, try to make them realize what's really going on; or he can ride with

the tide, and make sure he wins every time; or he can really work the race

thing up into something, so that he makes it worse, but wins bigger and bigger

each time. I think most politicians are in the business of winning elections,

so they're not going to do the first. But most of them aren't rabble-rousers,

either. They just want to get elected; so it's the second choice they take,

just like everyone else does, usually. They try to steer a middle ground, not

so much one way or the other.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





Through talks with people like him I think I have a fairly good sense of how

cheated and nervous many white people in Northern cities feel; cheated out of

the most ordinary comforts and opportunities, and nervous about losing what

they do have in the one war, the poverty program, which is being waged on their

home territory.<p>



<font size=5>I</font>n many ways the poor and lower-middle-class white people in our Northern

cities are going through a kind of experience precisely opposite to that of

Negroes. At this time in history Negroes are being affirmed, while these white

people feel increasingly deserted and alone. The Negro's excuse for his present

condition is everywhere made known: it was not his fault, but ours. We carried

him here by force and kept him in bondage for three centuries. He was not

simply poor, but singled out for a very particular form of exploitation. The

brutality and exclusion that he experienced have now become our national

problem, because the price once exacted for the Negro's compliance lives on in

the illiteracy and fearfulness we encouraged in him for so long.<p>



In the Northern cities a white man who is poor has no such past history to

justify his condition. He is poor, or uneasily not-poor, but no more than that.

Even our expanding middle class has its definite limitations. Those limitations

are now shifting in character but by no means disappearing. While it is true

that educational opportunity and the money to secure it are much more available

than ever before, we are also facing severe technological problems, as machines

replace not only men but other machines. It no longer is fatuous to predict an

astonishing productivity harnessed to a relative handful of workers.<p>



Meanwhile, we stubbornly cling to an ethic that prefers to reward only those

who can find work, while consigning all the rest to charity, and not a little

contempt. Through no fault of their own, not improvidence, not ignorance, not

apathy, many people simply cannot obtain the regular work they want and need.

Others may have reasonably secure jobs, but they are jobs that hardly pay

enough to guarantee much security against an inflationary economy. "Who can

keep up with it?" a mother who was barely able to make ends meet said to me in

an aside during a talk we were having on racial tensions in Boston.<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

The Negroes say they have nothing. Well, we have more, that's true. My

husband works, and it's a steady job. We're Irish, so in this city there's no

trouble there, I'll have to admit. But it's as hard as can be just living and

staying even with everything. My husband has to work extra just to pay the

bills. We don't have any money put away. The kids always want something. All

the television does is tell you to buy, buy, buy. A few years ago my husband

didn't have a job, and we didn't know where our next penny was coming from. Now

he has the job all right but it's even harder in a way. Any raise he gets means

nothing compared to what happens to the cost of everything. You have to be an

owner of something or a professional man to have an easy mind today.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





On another occasion I found her directly envious of Negroes. They were on the

bottom, and at least had somewhere to go. She didn't think there was much room

"up there" for her family. Moreover, the Negro gets an enormous amount of

sympathy and attention, and from people and institutions she feels possessive

about. As a matter of fact, in one of the bluntest conversations I have had,

she said to me:<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

They may be poorer than a lot of white people, but not by very much.

Anyway, what they don't get in money they more than gain in popularity these

days. The papers have suddenly decided that the Negro is teacher's pet.

Whatever he does good is wonderful, and we should clap. But if he does anything

bad, it's our fault. I can't read the papers anymore when they talk about the

race thing. I'm sick of their editorials. All of a sudden they start giving us

a lecture every day on how bad we are. They never used to care about anything,

the Negro or anything else. Now they're so worried. And the same goes with the

Church. I'm as devout a Catholic as you'll find around. My brother is a priest,

and I do more than go to Church once a week. But I just can't take what some of

our priests are saying these days. They're talking as if we did something wrong

for being white. I don't understand it at all. Priests never used to talk about

the Negro when I was a child. Now they talk to my kids about them all the time.

I thought the Church is supposed to stand for religion, and eternal things.

They shouldn't get themselves into every little fight that comes along. The

same goes with the schools. I went to school here in Boston, and nobody was

talking about Negroes and busing us around. The Negroes were there in Roxbury

and we were here.<p>



Everybody can't live with you, can they? Everybody likes his own. But now

even the school people tell us we have to have our kids with this kind and that

kind of person, or else they will be hurt, or something. Now how am I supposed

to believe everything all these people say? They weren't talking that way a few

years ago. The governor wasn't either. Nor the mayor. They're all just like

cattle stampeding to sound like one another. The same with those people out in

the suburbs. Suddenly they're interested in the Negro. They worked and worked

to get away from him, of course, and get away from us, too. That's why they

moved so far, instead of staying here, where they can do something, if they

mean so well. But no. They moved and now they're all ready to come back--but

only to drive a few Negro kids out for a Sunday picnic. Who has to live with

all this, and pay for it in taxes and everything? Whose kids are pushed around?

And who gets called "prejudiced" and all the other sneery words? I've had

enough of it. It's hypocrisy, right down the line. And we're the ones who get

it; the final buck gets passed to us.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>







Can we really solve the racial problem in this country without coming to terms

with the worries and fears of this woman? There is an unnerving thread of truth

that runs through her remarks. She and her husband do indeed have cause to

worry about jobs and money, even as Negroes do. It is quite true that our

newspapers, our churches, our political leaders have changed recently. Because

they have learned new social concerns does not mean that the people who for

years followed their leadership can fall in line easily, particularly when

there are no concrete, persuasive reasons for them to do so. Moreover, the

rivalrous and envious observations made by the people I have quoted ring sadly

and ironically true: there is a certain snobbish and faddish "interest" in

Negroes from people who would not think of concerning themselves with those

many white families who share with Negroes slums, poor schools, uncertain

employment--the parade of crippling events that make up what "we" so easily

call "poverty" or "cultural disadvantages."<p>



Many of the poor white people I know in both the South and the North envy not

merely the attention the Negro is now getting or even the help he so badly

needs. While most of them are not aware of it--I have met a few who are

exquisitely aware of it--they also envy the Negro his success at finding a

viable protest movement. <I>They</I> need one too; though likely as not they don't

know they do or don't know how to achieve it. They are stymied at the

complexity of our social and economic system; it is easier to hate than to

think up a way to make more and better-paying jobs available, or make a minimum

income for every family the law, and ethical principle, of the land.<p>



If such people are frustrated, then so are we--the comfortable, well-educated,

and secure. This nation has yet to settle upon a policy that would aim to

distribute fairly our astonishing wealth, including all its surpluses and

potential productive capacities. Do we need wars and military spending to keep

our economy going, or can it be harnessed to provide the schools, houses,

hospitals, and just plain food and clothing that millions of us need and don't

have? Until such problems are solved, the bitterness and resentment we see

between whites and Negroes will continue, and perhaps increase--a reminder of

man's devious ability to conceal his real struggles, and thus remain at their

mercy.<p>



	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1966 by Robert Coles.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 

The Atlantic Monthly; June 1966 ; The White Northerner: Pride and 

Prejudice; Volume 217, No. 6; pages 53-57. </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-12</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA090-000973-B001-4</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/moynihan.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117202302 text/html 32311
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:22:58 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:21 GMT
Content-length: 32105
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The New Racialism

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>August 1968</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



The New Racialism



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Daniel P. Moynihan</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>The liberals have been confusing their vocabulary,

talking of "racism" when they mean "racialism," and have been abandoning their

traditional opposition to decentralized government and racial quotas. The

results may be dangerous, observes Professor Moynihan, the buoyantly

iconoclastic sociologist, author, and director of the Joint Center for Urban

Studies of The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>he great enterprise on which the American nation was embarked when the Vietnam

storm arose was the final inclusion of the Negro American in the larger

American society. That the Negro was, and still in considerable measure is,

excluded none still doubt. But it seems not less clear that this fact of

exclusion has been the lot of a very considerable portion of the American

people over the generations and the process of inclusion, of "national

integration," in Samuel H. Beer's term, a process "in which the community is

being made more of a community," has been going on almost from the moment the

fortunes of war and empire defined this hopelessly heterogeneous people as made

up exclusively of General de Gaulle's "Anglo-Saxons." In fact, at midcentury

only 35 percent of the American people were descendants of migrants from Great

Britain and Northern Ireland. Most of the rest have known greater or lesser

degrees of exclusion--and into the present. But none quite like that of the

Negro, and final, palpable equality for him became the essential demand of our

time, just as it became the demand of the American presidency; only to arouse

among some elements of the society--in greater or lesser degree in all

elements--a pervasive fear and deep resistance. Laws in the hundreds were

passed, but changes were few. As the black masses for whatever reasons became

increasingly violent, white resistance became more stubborn, even as it assumed

more respectable forms: "Law and order."<p>



This resistance has produced something of a stalemate, and in consequence a

crisis. The essential symbol, and in ways the central fact, of black exclusion

in white America is that the Negro is not permitted to move about freely and

live where he will. Increasingly he is confined to the slums of the central

cities, with consequences at once appalling to him and disastrous to the

cities. The laws do not require this exclusion; in fact, they forbid it. Now

also does the Supreme Court. But it prevails because of a process of private

nullification by whites.<p>



More and more one hears that this situation is likely to persist so long as to

require that it be treated as a permanent condition. And largely as a result of

this conclusion, a marked reversal appears to be taking place in what are

generally seen as liberal circles on the subject of decentralized government

and racial quotas. For a good half century now--longer than that, in

truth--liberal opinion has held quite strong views on these issues, and they

are almost wholly negative. Nor have these views been in any sense marginal.

Quite near to the core of the liberal agenda in the reform period that began at

the turn of the century and continued almost to this moment we find two

propositions.<p>



The first is that local government is conservative or even reactionary. Such

nostalgia as might have persisted about New England town meetings was seen as

historically obsolete and ethnically inapplicable. Local government in New

York, for example, was known to be run by Irishmen, who were bosses wielding

vast but illegitimate power, placing unqualified men on public payrolls,

consorting with criminals, and lowering the standards of public life. In the

South, local government was in the hands of racists, who systematically

excluded Negroes from participation in public affairs, and much else as well.

The West was far away. Hence the great thrust of liberal/intellectual political

effort, and central to liberal/intellectual political opinion, was the effort

to RAISE the level at which governmental decisions were made above that of

state and local government, to that of the federal government. The great and

confirming successes of that effort were, of course, the Administrations of

Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt. "States' rights" became a symbol of

reaction. Distinguished public servants such as Paul Appleby developed the

doctrine that those who insisted that this or that governmental activity was

best carried out at the local level were in fact opposed to such activity, and

confident that in actuality the local government would do nothing. E. E.

Schattschneider explained the whole thrust of liberal politics in terms of the

effort to raise the level at which the decisions were made. These views had

consequence. Three years ago, for example, when the Johnson Administration was

about to come forth with a proposal for revenue-sharing with state

governments--the well-known Heller-Pechman plan--the proposal was vetoed by the

labor movement on grounds that giving more resources to local powers could only

strengthen the forces of conservatism and reaction.<p>



The second general theme has to do with the whole issue of ethnic, racial (if

one wishes to make a distinction between those two), and religious

heterogeneity. These were matters which liberal opinion firmly held ought not

to be subjects of public moment or acknowledgment. Rather as politics and women

are proscribed as matters of conversation in a naval officers' mess, it was

accepted that such categories existed, and given the doctrine of freedom of

conscience, it was also accepted that religious diversity would persist, but in

general, opinion looked forward to a time when such distinctions would make as

little difference as possible. Opinion certainly aspired to the complete

disappearance of ethnic characteristics, which were felt to have little, if

any, validity. Increasingly, the identification of persons by race or religion,

especially in application forms of various sorts, was seen as a manifestation

of racism, of unavoidably malign intent.<p>



<font size=5>I</font>t is hard to judge which is the more extraordinary: that Americans could have

thought they could eliminate such identities, or that so little comment was

made about the effort. (Resistance, then as now, was largely silent and

ashamed.) Andrew Greeley has recently speculated that the historians of, say,

the twenty-third or twenty-fourth century looking back to this time will find

that, apart from the great population increase in the world, and its

Westernization and industrialization, quite the most extraordinary event was

the fusing of cultures in the American republic.<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

The historians of the future will find it hard to believe that it could have

happened that English, Scotch, and Welsh, Irish, Germans, Italians, and Poles,

Africans, Indians, both Eastern and Western, Frenchmen, Spaniards, Finns,

Swedes, Lebanese, Danes, Armenians, Croatians, Slovenians, Greeks, and

Luxembourgers, Chinese, Japanese, Philippinos, and Puerto Ricans would come

together to form a nation that not only would survive but, all things

considered, survive reasonably well. I further suggest that the historians of

the future will be astonished that American sociologists, the product of this

gathering in of the nations, could stand in the midst of such an astonishing

social phenomenon and take it so for granted that they would not bother to

study it.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





I agree, largely as I feel that future historians, relieved of our

nineteenth-century preoccupation with the appearance of industrialization and

the issue of who would control the artifacts thereof; a preoccupation, in other

words, with issues such as capitalism, socialism, and Communism, still also see

that the turbulence of these times here and abroad has had far more to do with

ethnic, racial, and religious affiliation than with these other issues.

Nonetheless, beginning with the New Deal, federal legislation began prohibiting

discrimination based on race and religion, and this movement increasingly took

the form of forbidding acknowledgment even of the existence of such categories.

In New York, for example, a prospective employer simply may not ask to know the

religious or ethnic affiliation of an employee. A dean of admissions may not

ask for a photograph of an applicant. The culmination of this movement, and

given its insistence on absolute equality in competition, the high-water mark

of social Darwinism in the United States was, of course, the Civil Rights Act

of 1964.<p>



Now, of a sudden, all this has changed. The demand for decentralization of

government and local participation in decision-making about the most global

issues has become almost a leading issue with liberal thinkers and politicians.

Distrust of Washington, once the sure giveaway of a conservative or reactionary

mind, has become a characteristic stance of forward-looking young men. And now

ethnic quotas have reappeared, although primarily in terms of racial quotas.

That which was specifically forbidden by the Civil Rights Act is now explicitly

(albeit covertly) required by the federal government. Employers are given

quotas of the black employees they will hire, records of minority-group

employment are diligently maintained, and censuses repeatedly taken. In

universities in particular the cry has arisen for racial quotas roughly

representative of population proportions, in both university faculties and

student bodies, and the proposal is most ardently supported by those who would

have themselves considered most advanced in their social thinking. It would

seem altogether to be expected that this process will continue, and come to be

applied to all the most visible institutions of the land, starting, of course,

with those most sympathetic to social change, and therefore most vulnerable to

such pressure, and gradually, grown more legitimate, extended to the more

resistant centers.<p>



<font size=5>W</font>hat on earth happened? Taking these developments in the order that I listed

them, one can perceive at least two sources of the thrust toward

decentralization, both related to the racial stalemate and both of which can

properly be described as the result of a learning process, and on that ground

welcomed. The first is the discovery by liberal middle-class America that many

of the institutions of urban working-class politics served important and

legitimate purposes, and that the destruction of these institutions created a

vacuum in which by and large Negroes now have to live. Having destroyed the

power of the local bosses, we learn that the people feel powerless. Having put

an end to patronage and established merit systems in civil service, we find

that the poor and unqualified are without jobs. Having banished felons from

public employment, we find that enormous numbers of men who need jobs have

criminal records. Having cleaned up law enforcement, we find that crime is run

by the Mafia (or whatever is the current term for slandering Italians), instead

of the Police, as was the case in the idyllic days of Lincoln Steffens' youth.

Hence liberals now are urged to return to local organization with an enthusiasm

ever so slightly tinged with the elitism of the middle-class liberal/ radical

who now as always is confident that he is capable of running anything better

than anyone else, even a slum neighborhood. Middle-class radicals continue to

insist the Negroes in Harlem are powerless, not least, one fears, because the

one type who is never elected is the middle-class radical. (But to my knowledge

there is hardly a single significant elected or appointed political, judicial,

or administrative office in Harlem that is not held by a Negro.) Hence an ever

increasing enthusiasm of liberal foundations and reform mayors for creating new

"indigenous" community organizations and giving to them a measure of real or

pretend power. Whether in fact outsiders can create an "indigenous"

organization is problematic. (Would it not be good sport for the Landmarks

Commission to assign to Mayor Lindsay's Little City Halls their traditional

Tammany designations of Tuscorora Club, Iroquois Club, Onondaga Club?) But the

effort is sincere, if withal tinged with a certain elitist impulse to manage

the lives of the less fortunate.<p>



On a different level, a movement toward decentralization has arisen largely

from the emergence of what James Q. Wilson has called the bureaucracy problem,

the fact that "there are inherent limits to what can be accomplished by large,

hierarchical organizations." Although Max Weber explained to us why large

bureaucracies, once established, would work for themselves rather than the

putative objects of their concern, it was not until the bureaucracies were

established, and someone tried to do something with them, that any great number

of persons came to see the point. Interestingly enough, this seems to have

happened in the Soviet Union at about the same time as in the United States.

For certain it is an endemic mood among men who went to Washington with John F.

Kennedy. The problem involves not just the dynamics of large organizations, but

also the ambitiousness of our society. As Wilson continues: "The supply of

able, experienced executives is not increasing nearly as fast as the number of

problems being addressed."<p>



This is all to the good. It responds to reality; it reflects an openness to

experience. Irving Kristol has remarked, echoing Sir William Harcourt at the

turn of the century on the subject of socialism, "We are all decentralists

now." The acknowledgment that race and ethnicity are persisting and

consequential facts about individuals that ought in certain circumstances to be

taken into consideration is long overdue. (Several years ago, to my ultimate

grief, I tried to get the welfare establishment in Washington to abandon its

"color-blind" policy which refused to record anything about the race of welfare

recipients. Last year Southern committee chairmen brought about the enactment

of vicious anti-Negro welfare legislation, which no one could effectively

oppose because no one is supposed to "know" about such things.) But before

lurching from one set of overstatements to another, is it not possible to hope

that a measure of thought will intervene, and that the truth will be found,

alas, somewhere in the middle?<p>



The issues are intertwined, and tend to work against one another. Thus the

fundamental source of equal rights for Negro Americans, for all Americans, is

the Constitution. Where the federal writ runs, all men are given equal

treatment. But this process is not directed by some invisible hand; it is the

result of political decisions made year to year in Washington. "Local control"

means a very different thing in Mississippi than it does in New York, and let

us for God's sake summon the wit to see this before we enshrine the political

principles of George C. Wallace in the temple of liberal rationalism. Paul

Appleby knew what he was talking about. An aggressive federal insistence on

equal treatment for all races is indispensable to the successful inclusion of

the Negro American into the large society.<p>



Further, to argue that all things cannot be run from Washington is not to

assert that neither can they be run from city hall. Unfortunately, a good deal

of decentralization talk is fundamentally antigovernment in spirit, and this

can be a calamity in areas such as race relations. Giving a mayor enough untied

federal funds to enable him to govern his city could release immensely creative

energies. Forcing him to break up his administration into endlessly

fractionating units will bring on anarchism at best and chaos at worst. Given

the heterogeneous political community of most large cities, this potential for

ethnic and racial chaos, Kristol remarks, is especially great.<p>



School decentralization in New York seems to be encouraging just this. The

problem is that now, as ever in the past, the lower classes of the city are

ethnically quite distinct from what might be termed the bureaucratic classes,

and neighborhoods tend to conform to those distinctions. The result is that

conflict induced between the two groups gets ugly fast. Thus the New York times

reported that the militant picketing of I.S. 201 in east Harlem in 1967 was

"flagrantly anti-Semitic." Similar tendencies have appeared in the Ocean

Hill-Brownsville area where decentralization is being experimented with. A

leaflet recently distributed there reads:<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

If African-American History and Culture is to be taught to our Black Children

it Must Be Done By African-Americans Who Identify With And Who Understand The

Problem. It Is Impossible For The Middle East Murderers of Colored People to

Possibly Bring To This Important Task The Insight, The Concern, The Exposing Of

the Truth That is a MUST If The Years of Brainwashing And Self-Hatred That Has

Been Taught To Our Black Children By Those Blood-sucking Exploiters and

Murderers Is To Be Overcome.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





A pretty sentiment, to which, not surprisingly, there are Jews capable of

responding in kind. Charles E. Silberman, the distinguished author of Crisis in

Black and White, recently demanded of an American Jewish Committee meeting that

it<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

face up to the raw, rank, anti-Negro prejudice that is within our own midst.

We talk--endlessly--about Negro Anti-Semitism; we rarely talk about--let alone

try to deal with--the Jewish Anti-Negroism that is in our midst and that is

growing very rapidly.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





All too familiar. And as Archbishop John F. Dearden of Detroit, president of

the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, observed last year, in other

cities of the nation the Negro-white confrontation is becoming a Negro-Catholic

(Protestant-Catholic) encounter. <I>Plus &ccedil;a change</I>...<p>



<font size=5>T</font>he danger is that we shall see the emergence of a new racialism. Not racism, a

term--dreadfully misused by the Kerner Commission--that has as its

indispensable central intent "the assumption that psychocultural traits and

capacities are determined by biological race and that races differ decisively

from one another" (Webster's Third New International Dictionary). There is a

streak of the racist virus in the American bloodstream, and has been since the

first "white" encounter with the "red" Indians. But it is now a distinctly

minority position, and mainly that of old or marginal persons, with an

occasional politician seeking to make use of what is left. Yet there is a

strong, and persisting, phenomenon of racialism, defined as "racial prejudice

or discrimination: race hatred." This is in no sense confined to "whites," much

less "Wasps." (I use quotation marks. The geneticist Joshua Lederberg notes

that it is scientifically absurd to call anyone in this country "black," and

probably not accurate to speak of "whites" either.) Writing in a 1935 issue of

Race, E. Franklin Frazier, for example, referred to W. E. B. DuBois's then

current proposal that the Negro build a cooperative industrial system in

America as "racialism." There is nothing mystical about racialism; it is simply

a matter of one group not liking another group of evidently antagonistic

interests. It is a profoundly different position from that of racism, with its

logic of genocide and subordination. And it does no service whatever to this

polity to identify as racist attitudes that are merely racialist and which will

usually, on examination, be found to have essentially a social class basis. But

our potential for this type of dissension is large and very likely growing. In

the hands of ideologues (who often as not enjoy the chaos) or charlatans (who

stand to benefit) or plain simpletons, many forms of decentralization in the

modern city will give rise to racialism. Responsible persons should examine

that prospect beforehand.<p>



The question of quotas raises the same issue. As I am almost certain to be

misunderstood--that appears to be an occupational hazard in this field (and I

would seriously suggest that the training of any social scientist in years to

come should include something equivalent to the processes by which

psychiatrists are taught to anticipate and accept hostility)--let me offer a

word or two by way of credentials. I believe it fair to say that I have been

one of a smallish band of sociologists and political scientists who have

insisted that race, ethnicity, and religion were and are relevant and

functional categories in American life. I accept fully, as does Greeley, the

Weberian analysis of E. K. Francis that the ethnic collectivity represents an

attempt on the part of men to keep alive during their pilgrimage from

Gemeinschaft to Gesellschaft, or as Greeley puts it, "from peasant commune to

industrial metropolis," some of the diffuse, ascriptive, particularistic modes

of behavior that were common to their past. I have argued in favor of the

balanced political ticket; I have even been a member of one. I see the

emergence of "black pride" as wholly a good thing. And so on. But at the same

time, I would hope as we rush toward an ethnically, racially, and religiously

conscious society that we try to keep our thinking just a bit ahead of

events.<p>



<font size=5>M</font>y concerns are twofold and come to this. First, I am worried that having so

far been unable to assemble the political majority that would enable the nation

to provide a free and equal place for the Negro in the larger society by what

are essentially market strategies (full employment, income supplementation,

housing construction, and such-like), we will be driven to institutional

strategies involving government-dictated outcomes directed against those

institutions most vulnerable to government pressure. I don't like this mostly

because I don't like that kind of government pressure. But I oppose it also

because I fear the kind of rigidities that it can build into a society that

obviously is most effective when it is most flexible.<p>



Remember, the Negro middle class is on the move. A recent study at Columbia

found that the proportion of Negroes with professional or technical occupations

in New York City is distinctly higher than that of Irish or Italians.<p>



If there is an ethnic balance "against" Negroes in many municipal bureaucracies

today, there is likely to be one "for" them in the not distant future. These

are for the most part truly integrated groups, which, much as do the Armed

Forces, provide major opportunities for Negro advancement on purely equal terms

involving neither discrimination nor preference. (When the Jewish principal at

I.S. 201 resigned, his Negro deputy refused the job on grounds that she would

not be appointed as a Negro. She had no need to be. Inspired or lethargic,

brilliant or bright, she was on her way to a principalship on her own. That is

what bureaucracy is like.)<p>



My second concern is, to my mind, the greater. Once this process gets

legitimated there is no stopping it, and without intending anything of the

sort, I fear it will be contributing significantly to the already

well-developed tendency to politicize (and racialize) more and more aspects of

modern life. Thirty years ago Orwell wrote, "In our age there is no such thing

as 'keeping out of politics.' All issues are political issues...." I resist

that. Not all issues. Not yet. Note that he added "and politics itself is a

mass of lies, evasions, folly, hatred, and schizophrenia." Not all American

politics. Not yet. But enough is, and we must therefore struggle against the

effort of government, in some large general interest, to dictate more and more

of the small details. It is necessary to be more alert to Robert A. Nisbet's

observation that democracy is, fundamentally, "a theory and structure of

political power," but that liberalism is "historically a theory of immunity

from powers.<p>



This, to my mind, is something more than a generalized concern. For centuries

it has been obvious that property is not always evenly distributed, and it has

been more or less legitimate to talk about it. In America, however, in the

modern world generally, there have grown up new forms of property and

influence, not so readily perceived, and the people who possess them have been

wisely content to leave it at that. Success, as Norman Podhoretz wrote, and as

he learned, is a dirty little secret in America, which those who are successful

very much dislike to see discussed in public. A quality which makes for social

stability at this time is that different groups in the population value

different kinds of success, and tend to be best at those they most value. But

government knows little of such variegations, and I very much fear that if we

begin to become formal about quotas for this or that group, we will very

quickly come to realize that these are instantly translated into quotas

against. This is painfully true in the field of education and culture, which to

a very considerable degree at this particular moment in our history is

exceptionally influenced by American Jews. It was in a certain sense in an

effort to resist the processes that brought about this partial hegemony that

the "older American" institutions imposed quotas in the first place, and it was

to abet the process that the quotas were abolished. Those were in fact quotas

on success, imposed against a disproportionately successful group.<p>



Let me be blunt. If ethnic quotas are to be imposed on American universities

and similarly quasipublic institutions, it is Jews who will be almost driven

out. They are not 3 percent of the population. This would be a misfortune to

them, but a disaster to the nation. And I very much fear that there is a whiff

of anti-Semitism in many of these demands. I was interested that when demands

for quotas were made at Harvard, the Crimson endorsed with some enthusiasm the

idea of ethnic representation, if not exactly quotas, on the faculty, but the

editors were not at all impressed with the advantages of extending the

principle to the student body. I do not know what was on their mind, but I do

know that if ethnic quotas ever should come to Harvard (surely they won't!),

something like seven out of eight Jewish undergraduates would have to leave,

and I would imagine it to be a higher proportion in the graduate schools. This,

I repeat, would be a misfortune for them, but a disaster for a place like

Harvard. And much the same exodus would be required of Japanese and Chinese

Americans, especially in the graduate schools.<p>



One assumes that America has known enough of anti-Semitism and anti-Oriental

feeling to be wary of opening that box again. Especially now. Given the

prominence of Jews in current American radical movements--the Times describes

the student activists at Columbia as "typically very bright and predominantly

Jewish"--and the hostage of Israel, Jews are at this moment perhaps especially

exposed to conservative or reactionary pressures which could easily make an

issue of "overrepresentation." Recalling what we did to Japanese Americans in

World War II, we surely should be careful about exposing Chinese Americans

today to reactionary pressures simply on the basis that mainland China is our

enemy.<p>



It comes down to a matter of prudence: of recognizing our potential for

racialism, and guarding against it, while responding to real and legitimate

racial needs. Thus Negroes need preferential treatment in some areas, and

deserve it. The good sense of the country in the past has been to do this kind

of thing by informal arrangements--the balanced ticket. At the present time

Israel, for example, seems to be having success with similar arrangements for

its Eastern Jewish immigrants. Can we not do as much?<p>



I hope I would not be interpreted as resisting a more open acknowledgment of

these factors. To the contrary, I feel they should be more in our minds, but at

a private and informal level of concern. I am acutely aware, for example, of

the debilitating imbalance in the ethnic origins of American social scientists.

I say debilitating because it is the nature of heterogeneous societies such as

ours that analysis that could in any way be taken as criticism is routinely

rejected when the analyst is of a distinctly different group. That is the plain

truth of it. And it is a truth much in evidence with respect to Negro studies

at this time. Thirty years ago in this country anyone seeking to learn more

ABOUT Negroes would have had to read books written BY Negroes: Frazier, Drake,

Cayton, Johnson, and others. Somehow that tradition, nobly begun by DuBois,

faltered. There was not, for example, a single Negro social scientist on the

research staff of the President's Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders. Now,

with only a few exceptions, social science studies of Negroes are carried out

by whites, and we are not to wonder that more and more the cry goes out from

the slums that they are tired of that white magic and will listen no more. But

Negroes are only one case, and not a particularly special one. American social

science desperately needs to expand its ethnic, racial, and religious base,

just as it has got to expand its interests in those areas.<p>



Let me conclude with the words with which Nathan Glazer and I closed our own

study of the city:<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

Religion and race define the next phase in the evolution of the American

peoples. But the American nationality is still forming: its processes are

mysterious, and the final form, if there is ever to be a final form, is as yet

unknown.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1968 by Daniel P. Moynihan.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; August 1968 ; The New Racialism; Volume 222, No. 2; 

pages 35-40.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-13</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B030-246</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/afterf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191036 text/html 127033
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:09:23 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:09:35 GMT
Content-length: 126826
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>The Morning After</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>October 1987</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





The Morning After</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by Peter G. Peterson</font></center>

<p><img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" vspace=10><p>



<p>



<blockquote>



<i><font size=4>America has let its infrastructure crumble, its foreign markets decline, its

productivity dwindle, its savings evaporate, and its budget and borrowing

burgeon. And now the day of reckoning is at hand.</i></font><p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>I</font><font size=3>n 1981 Ronald Reagan took the helm of a nation whose economy was reeling, with

inflation in double digits, the prime rate hurtling past 20 percent, and the

national spirit sagging into bewilderment. Today other countries gaze enviously

over an American economic landscape that shows little track of past convulsions

and, indeed, seems to burst with new businesses, new jobs, new Dow Jones

records, and a newfound confidence.<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet, six years after the radical reforms of Reaganomics got under way,

Americans are about to wake up to reality: for some time now the foundations of

their economic future have been insidiously weakening. This awakening is

currently being delayed by the widespread preoccupation with "competitiveness."

Under the prodding of a trade balance in manufactured goods that collapsed from

a $17 billion surplus in 1980 to a $139 billion deficit in 1986, including the

first deficit ever in high-technology goods, and with additional shoves from a

shaky dollar, from nervous financial markets, and from stagnating real wages,

the so-called competitiveness problem is quickly climbing to the top of

America's political agenda.<p>



<p>



<p>



What does competitiveness mean? In many American households today it means

worry about future living standards and about whether one's children, ten to

fifteen years into their careers, will be able to out-earn their parents. In

corporate boardrooms competitiveness means the executive nightmare of seeing

Americans gorge themselves on goods from foreign firms.<p>



<p>



<p>



For many blue-collar workers competitiveness has an even crueler meaning:

layoffs and the understandable desire to get even with the anonymous forces

behind them. Over the past three years America's import deluge has resulted in

pink slips for one to two million domestic manufacturing workers each year .

More than a third of them remain indefinitely out of work; more than half the

rest have taken pay cuts of 30 to 50 percent in new jobs that cannot make use

of their experience. Economists are looking closely at this dislocation for

signs of structural disintegration in U.S. communities, and of the decay of

skills and habits that once made manufacturing an engine of U.S. comparative

advantage in world trade.<p>



<p>



<p>



In Washington competitiveness seems to mean both nothing and everything. Some

senators advocated a speed limit of sixty-five miles an hour on rural highways

as a "competitiveness" measure. House members are justifying yesteryear's jobs

bills by renaming them "competitive adjustment programs." And lobbyists are

arguing for stricter world cartels on everything from shoes to semiconductors

on the grounds that such agreements will improve our "competitiveness." After

announcing in its 1987 Economic Report of the President that recent U.S.

performance in manufacturing has vindicated our competitiveness, the White

House has refused to be upstaged on the issue, even going so far as to claim

that the Strategic Defense Initiative is "pro-competitive."<p>



<p>



<p>



Democrats are demanding that the Administration get back America's "rightful

share" of jobs and wages through protectionist measures. If imports are cut

back, they say, the jobs and income generated by producing for American

consumers will be miraculously transferred from foreign to U.S. firms. Get

tough on the other guys and our situation will improve--that seems to be the

general idea. What all public statements on "getting back" our competitiveness

neglect to mention is that Americans will have to give up something to get it

back. Over the next few years policymakers will wake up to the true cause of

our "competitiveness" predicament: the incalculable damage we have inflicted on

our economy in recent years.<p>



<p>



<p>



An x-ray of the damage would show its antecedents stretching far back in the

past, across several Administrations. Our national preference for consumption

over investment--the root malady--did not begin with the Reagan Administration.

Still, that set of policies loosely known as Reaganomics has certainly worsened

the damage. In the finest tradition of Euripidean irony, measures meant to save

us have worked in the end to afflict us, so much so that even our nation's

non-economic hopes--cultural, social, and strategic--have been clouded by our

disastrous fiscal mismanagement. It has been a hard lesson in the law of

unintended results.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: From a decade of feeble productivity growth (0.6 percent yearly in the

1970s) and early signs of rising poverty rates, we entered the 1980s flush with

expectations of "supply-side" prosperity. Result: We have ended up with still

feebler productivity growth (0.4 percent yearly from 1979-1986) and, despite a

debt-financed rise in personal income, with an upward leap in every measure of

overall poverty. More important, we have witnessed a widening split between the

elderly, among whom poverty is still declining, and children and young

families, among whom poverty rates have exploded--a development with dire

implications for our future productivity.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: After a decade of worry about our low level of net private domestic

investment (6.9 percent of GNP from 1970 to 1979) and an unsustainable real

decline in the construction of public infrastructure, we wanted the 1980s to be

a farsighted decade of thrift, healthy balance sheets, and accelerating capital

formation. Result: We have ended up with by far the weakest net investment

effort in our postwar history (averaging 4.7 percent of GNP from 1980 to 1986)

and have acquiesced in the crumbling of our infrastructure. Moreover, far from

renewing our saving habits or our balance sheets, or bolstering the "supply

side" of our economy, the 1980s have turned out to be the  most

consumption-based "demand-side" decade experienced by any major industrial

country during the postwar era.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: in 1980 American voters decisively endorsed a smaller and leaner

federal government, with special exceptions for defense spending and for

poverty-related "safety-net" benefits. Result: We ended up with a significantly

higher level of federal spending in 1986 (23.8 percent of GNP) than we had in

1979 (20.5 percent of GNP) --with most of the growth concentrated in precisely

what needed to be controlled: interest costs and entitlement benefits unrelated

to poverty (or, to put it bluntly, welfare for the middle class and up).

Federal interest payments on the national debt, $136 billion in 1986, are now

equivalent to the total taxpayer savings originally projected from the 1981

income-tax cut. As for federal benefits doled out regardless of financial need,

these have grown from about $200 billion in 1979 to $400 billion in 1986. They

totaled $46 billion in 1968.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: Entering the 1980s, we acknowledged that it was bad policy to allow

federal outlays to exceed federal revenues (with deficits averaging 1.7 percent

of GNP from 1970 to 1979). We promised ourselves to do better. Result: We made

the gap between spending and taxes wide beyond precedent (with deficits

averaging 4.1 percent of GNP from 1980 to 1986, and rising to 4.9 percent of

GNP, or 90 percent of all private-sector net savings, in 1986). Our publicly

held federal debt is nearly three times larger now than it was in 1980. The

projected deficit numbers have improved somewhat, but the much heralded future

declines are premised on very rosy assumptions--no recession, for example, and

an interest rate of 4.0 percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: Americans voted in 1980 for leadership that emphasized greater global

competitiveness and freer world markets as the most advantageous means of

achieving balanced economic growth. Result: America's steep decline in savings

during the 1980s has precisely reversed our intentions. We were promised a $65

billion trade surplus by 1984; instead we suffered a $123 billion trade

deficit. Today, despite four years of extraordinary luck on the energy front,

we have managed to twist the global economy into the most lopsided imbalance

between saving (foreign) and spending (American) ever witnessed in the

industrialize era. In the process--as we all know--we have transformed

ourselves from the world's largest creditor into the world's largest debtor. In

reaction to this shift the rest was inevitable: a more than tripling (from

about five percent to 18 percent) in the share of U.S. imports subject to

quotas, a colossal about-face in public opinion away from free trade, and the

appearance of the most blatantly protectionist bills before Congress since the

days of Senator Reed Smoot and Congressman Willis C. Hawley--despite the

President's free-trade convictions.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent. America came into the 1980s longing to strengthen its military defenses

and to project its power abroad more effectively. Result. We now find that

budget deficits and an evaporation of the public's pro-defense consensus are

drawing an ever tighter circle around all our strategic options. Not only must

we now replay the wasteful 1970s by cutting short production runs on dozens of

weapons systems, but once again we are about to demonstrate to the rest of the

world that America is incapable of sustainable long-term defense planning.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: More than just a defense build-up, Americans wanted a more assertive,

unilateral foreign policy, a way to make ourselves stand tall again in our

leadership of the free world. Result: Our fast-growing debt to the other

industrial countries has diverted our diplomatic energy into placating foreign

central banks with exchange-rate agreements (already by May of this year the

interventions to support the dollar amounted to a staggering $70 billion) into

jawboning foreign governments to get their people to buy more of our exports,

and into pawning off our Third World financial leadership onto more solvent

economies. When action requires money, we now scrape our "discretionary" budget

to procure the most meager support. We spend virtually nothing to try to avert

the growing risk of social, economic, and political chaos right at our doorstep

in Mexico. An additional $50 million was nearly considered too much to send to

the Philippines after the 1986 democratic election of Cory Aquino. Even the

Administration now publicly declares that our "foreign-affairs funding crisis"

could mean "the end of U.S. global leadership. Eight years ago no one imagined

an austerity-led shift toward U.S. isolationism. Now we're seeing it: an

attempt to stand tall on bended knees.<p>



<p>



<p>



Intent: Going into the 1980s, America's deepest wish was that renewed economic

strength might foster a renewed cultural and ideological strength and an ethic

of saving, hard work, and productivity. We wanted to replace malaise with a

confident sense of forward motion. Result: As the ideological enthusiasm of

1981 has gradually been worn down by economic reality, this wish, too, has

foundered, leaving many of our political leaders as defensive and uncertain as

those of a decade ago--and almost relieved to have us fixated on public and

private scandals.<p>



<p>



<p>



While many in the Administration believe or act as if there is no problem--and

hence no need for a solution--others want to avoid all association with the

dreaded next act of the economy. The Democrats' fears show up in a darkly

humorous story told by Democratic leaders: On January 20, 1989, after the

inauguration, President Reagan flies off to Santa Barbara. While he is in the

air, the stock and bond markets crash, the dollar plunges, and interest rates

soar. When Reagan lands in Santa Barbara, he announces to a swarm of reporters,

"See, I told you the Democrats would screw up the economy!"<p>



<p>



<p>



For the time being, the competitiveness issue remains a sort of curtain that

Americans have hung between Reaganomics and the future. Neither political party

dares to disturb it, for it allows every policy leader to keep our attention

fixed on the trivial. For example, we are told to get furious about the trade

effects of Japanese "dumping" of semiconductors or enthusiastic about the

federal sale of loan assets as a way to plug the budget deficit, even though

every expert denies that such things make much difference one way or the

other.<p>



<p>



<p>



The truth is that the most astonishing success of Reaganomics has been the myth

of our own invincibility. This myth rests upon an enduring, bipartisan

principle of American political life which in the 1980s has become gospel:

never admit the possibility of unpleasantness--especially when it appears

inevitable.<p>



<p>



<p>



If you allow for unpleasantness, the mechanics of our trade deficit cease to be

confusing. America runs a deficit because it buys more than it produces. By

systematically discouraging measures that would boost its anemic net savings

rate, the United States has acquired a structural deficit economy, meaning that

at no stage of the business cycle can we generate the amount of savings

necessary for minimally adequate investment. In 1986, in fact, nearly two

thirds of our net investment in housing and in business plant and equipment

would not have occurred without dollars saved by foreigners. (This level of

investment was, to be sure, very low by historical standards, but without the

capital inflows that accompanied our trade deficit in 1986 it would have been

at the rock-bottom level of a severe recession year--lower, in fact, than

during the recession years of 1980, 1975, 1970, and 1958.)<p>



<p>



<p>



Washington debate over trade policy invariably neglects this elementary fact

about our balance of payments: dollars that flow abroad to buy imports always

flow back. (Since foreigners don't use dollars, they spend them as soon as they

get them.) The only question is how our dollars flow back--to buy our goods and

services or to buy our IOUs. During the 1980s we have decided that our biggest

"export" should be IOUs. In 1986 we sold to foreigners, net, a total of $143

billion in U.S. financial assets. Most of this consisted of stocks, bonds,

T-bills, repos, bank balances, and other assorted paper, but a steeply

increasing proportion of it was in real estate and other direct investment.

This financial surplus was the flip side of our trade deficit, and if we had

invested more at home, our surplus (in selling IOUs) and deficit (in selling

trade goods) would have been even greater. As long as we cannot function

without dollars saved abroad, exchange rates will fluctuate and interest rates

will go up until we can attract those dollars back as loans. America must learn

the basic distinction between capital flows for investment, which produce

future return, and capital flows for consumption-related debt (for example,

inflows to fund the budget deficit), which simply produce future debt

service.<p>



<p>



<p>



Correcting the current imbalance assumes that America can embark on an enormous

shift from consumption to savings, and that this shift will not throw the

world's economy into a tailspin, either by trade-led recessions in the other

industrialized countries or by a chain of debt defaults among the

less-developed countries (against whom we will be competing for trade

surpluses). The alternative to this daunting scenario, of course, is the crash:

a huge plunge in the dollar, unaffordable imports, a long recession, garrison

protectionism, rampant inflation, and a marked decline in American living

standards. The crash alternative prescribes that we pay off our debts through

indefinite poverty. Can we avoid the crash? Yes, but doing so will require

Americans to produce more while consuming less, and very close macroeconomic

coordination among nations.<p>



<p>



<p>



A European critic is reported to have said this about the link between

America's fiscal and international deficits: "Your policies in the 1980s remind

me of Christopher Columbus's travels. Like you, he didn't know where he was

going. He didn't know where he was when he got there. And he didn't know where

he'd been when he got back. All he knew for sure was that the whole trip had

been financed with foreign money." Or, as Fred Bergsten, the director of the

Institute for International Economics, recently quipped, "We finally understand

the true meaning of supply-side economics: foreigners supply most of the goods

and all of the money."<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



How America has reached the end of an avenue with no pleasant exit is too long

a story to be told here. But it is worth mentioning the key contribution made

by two sweeping institutional developments that have taken place since the

beginning of the 1970s. Both are what might be called changes in the rules of

the game, rules that used to protect us from our own folly.<p>



<p>



<p>



The first change has been in how we legislate federal budgets. Until fifteen

years ago most federal spending was discretionary and unindexed, and federal

tax policy still functioned under the very strong presumption that federal

dollars spent should be paid for out of revenue. Large deficits, therefore,

were difficult to achieve, because so many easy corrective options were

available, both in spending and in taxing. The spending rule was eliminated in

the early 1970s by our decision to transform most non-poverty benefit programs

into untouchable and inflation-proof entitlements. The taxing rule was

eliminated in the early 1980s by the jihad prayers of supply-side economists.

Our deficit has thus become no one's responsibility. It is subject to

"projection" but no longer to control.<p>



<p>



<p>



The second big change has been the transformation of the world financial

system. Back in the early 1970s we all accepted the basic postulates of the

postwar Bretton Woods arrangements: fixed exchange rates and relatively little

mobility of capital between nations. But the problem with fixed exchange rates

was that they led to inconvenient balance-of-payment crises and didn't allow us

the freedom to determine our own macro-economic fate.<p>



<p>



<p>



So we closed the gold window in 1971 and shook ourselves loose from fixed

parities by 1973. By the late 1970s and early 1980s, as the dollar sloshed up

and down in ever larger waves, the world financial community accommodated our

proud creation the "float," and greatly liberalized the flow of capital across

borders. The inevitable result has been to give every nation--especially the

United States, as the owner of the world's reserve currency--much greater

latitude to borrow as it pleases, with few restrictions other than the specter

of national bankruptcy in the mind of the creditor. Fifteen years ago if the

United States had begun to borrow the equivalent of 3.5 percent of its GNP from

abroad, that would have created a national emergency, with Churchillian

presidential addresses and wartime austerity measures. Today it creates--well,

nothing, really. It's a number you can read about toward the end of the

business section of your newspaper.<p>



<p>



<p>



Most of these rule changes, with the exception of the new revenue-ignorant tax

policy, took place before Ronald Reagan assumed office. Countless commentators

have decided that Reaganomics represents a total reversal in inherited economic

policy. But not so many years from now historians may simply be calling it an

acceleration of inherited policy.<p>



<p>



<p>



For staying the course while double-digit inflation was tamed--the only Reagan,

or Reagan-Volcker, measure that seriously tested our threshold of

pain--President Reagan deserves credit, as he does for courageously taking on

the air-traffic controllers (which helped moderate the wage binge of the

1970s). He deserves credit as well for helping renew the popularity of markets

and of entrepreneurial risk, here and abroad, and for persuading us to abandon

the worst vices of regulation in such industries as airlines, banking, and

energy. And he was surely correct in advocating cuts in marginal tax rates. We

now know, for instance, that a maximum tax rate of 50 percent actually

generates more revenue from the wealthy than a maximum tax rate of 70 percent,

and provides real incentives for budding entrepreneurs. And for now, at least,

Reagan has swept off the agenda such policies as national planning,

wage-and-price controls, and wide-scale jobs programs.<p>



<p>



<p>



We need, though, to be honest: as far as the basic allocation of our economy's

resources is concerned, Reaganomics has either opted for or acquiesced in some

of the worst, future-averting choices America has ever made, the full

implications of which will not be known for years.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



Vicious-Circle Economics<p>



<p>



To begin to grasp what Reaganomics has wrought, go back to the presidential

campaign of 1980. It was the evening of October 28, and the eyes of many

American voters were fixed on the television debate between Ronald Reagan and

Jimmy Carter. Facing the camera squarely Reagan posed his famous question: "Are

you better off than you were four years ago?" The next day newspaper polls

began to report a surge of support for Reagan, which led to a Reagan landslide

one week later.<p>



<p>



<p>



Now, imagine that Reagan had immediately followed up his question with this

guarantee: "I promise to make you feel better. While real personal consumption

per fully employed American hardly budged during the Carter presidency, I will

make it rise by about $300 per worker every year over the next six years. I'm

also going to kick in another $140 per worker per year that we in government

will be spending mainly to repair the fall in our defense budget during the

seventies.<p>



<p>



<p>



"How will I do it? Well, let me tell you. I will not do it by increasing the

quantity of real goods and services produced per working American to any

appreciable degree. Instead, I will do it by diverting to consumption, between

last year and 1986, about three quarters of the resources per worker now

devoted to savings. Half of the money will be obtained by simply cutting

domestic investment, and to do this we will run enormous federal deficits--so

big that the federal debt the public has bought since the time of the Founding

Fathers, about $645 billion at the end of 1979, will have nearly tripled by the

end of 1986. The other half will come from borrowing abroad. By 1986, in fact,

our foreign borrowing alone will fund all of our net housing investment and a

good 40 percent of our declining level of net business investment--freeing up

by that year a fantastic $2,100 of extra personal consumption per employed

American. From the end of last year to the end of 1986 our national per-worker

balance with foreigners will fall from a credit of $989 to a debt of $2,500;

and our federal per-worker balance with creditors, wherever they are, will

plunge from a debt of $6,750 to a debt of $16,562. I'll bet you're feeling

better already. Thank you and good night."<p>



<p>



<p>



This speech might not have won the presidency for Reagan. But it would have

forecast precisely the performance of the economy during the candidate's

subsequent term of office.<p>



<p>



<p>



Reagan was right in the debate with Carter: the 1970s were tough by comparison

with the 1960s. He was also right in observing that lower productivity growth

and higher federal-benefit growth during the 1970s "squeezed out" defense

spending in favor of privately earned spending on consumption. What looks quite

significant in retrospect, however, is that at least the squeezing did take

place. Few Americans watching the debate in 1980 ever imagined that over the

coming decade we would just decide to ignore the law that limits consumption to

production.<p>



<p>



<p>



This is, quite simply, the dirty little secret of Reaganomics: behind the

pleasurable observation that real U.S. consumption per worker has risen by

$3,100 over the current decade lies the unpleasant reality that only $950 of

this extra annual consumption has been paid for by growth in what each of us

produces; the other $2,150 has been funded by cuts in domestic investment and

by a widening river of foreign debt. From 1979 to 1986 the total annual

increase in workers' production amounted to about $100 billion (in 1986

dollars). The comparable total for increases in personal consumption plus

government purchases was about $300 billion. That leaves a difference of a bit

more than $200 billion--just slightly more than the increase in annual federal

deficits over the past six years. Deficit spending, of course, has been the

primary engine behind this consumption bacchanalia--a superhot and

super-Keynesian demand-side tilt that replaced the reviled "Tax and spend"

motto of the 1970s with the new motto "Borrow and spend." In every previous

decade we consumed slightly less than 90 percent of our increase in production;

since the beginning of the 1980s we have consumed 325 percent of it--the extra

235 percent being reflected in an unprecedented increase in per-worker debt

abroad and a decline in per-worker investment at home. This is how we have

managed to create a make-believe 1960s--a decade of "feeling good" and "having

it all"--without the bother of producing a real one.<p>



<p>



<p>



We cannot, of course, go on borrowing from foreigners indefinitely to finance

our consumption. Soon we must stop and, at that point, decide whether to repay

them the principal or to forever commit ourselves (and our children) to pay

annual interest to foreigners as the price for our 1980s binge. Nor can we go

on starving domestic investment to finance our consumption. Soon we must stop

and replenish the factories, bridges, and schools we have forgone or else

forever relegate ourselves (and our children) to slower growth in our standard

of living. Supply-side economics without the "supply" can have only one

sequel--something we may soon call vicious-circle economics.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is therefore all but inevitable that our level of consumption must slow its

climb, or even fall, while our level of production catches up. But of course

the speed with which it can catch up depends in turn on how much we can invest,

which depends on how much we can save.<p>



<p>



<p>



The connection between exploding public deficits and a lower national saving

rate is not absolute and unbreakable. Conceivably, we might have left overall

national savings untouched if we had engineered a huge rise in private-sector

savings at the same time that we embarked on a huge rise in deficit spending.

In fact, however, net private savings--the net income saved by private

households and firms--has been declining very sharply over the past decade

(from 8.1 percent of GNP in the 1970s to 6.1 percent of GNP in the 1980s).

Consequently, net national savings, which equals net private savings minus

public-sector dissaving, has been declining over the past decade, from 7.1

percent of GNP in the 1970s to 3.4 percent in the 1980s. In fact, during three

of the past six years--1982, 1983, and 1986--U.S. net national savings has

dipped below two percent of GNP. Huge capital inflows from abroad have thus

been inevitable.<p>



<p>



<p>



The conservative stewards of Reaganomics, ironically, have themselves created

the Keynesian nightmare--large and permanent deficits--they so much feared. And

Americans have endured it with remarkably little protest, because, after all,

if conservative Keynes-haters didn't know the dangers of deficits, who did?<p>



<p>



<p>



Apologists for Reaganomics once claimed that "rational expectations" would lead

people to increase private savings to compensate for public deficits and that

the tax cut of the early 1980s would lead to a savings surge. The latter line

of reasoning is legitimate and important--at the margin and over the long haul.

Unfortunately, it is an idea that works well only when we tax saving less and

consumption more. Most of the 1981 tax cut was simply an across-the-board cut

in personal income-tax rates and thus did little to alter the relative tax

burden on savings versus consumption. In any case, what is truly inexcusable is

the expectation that we could come out ahead simply by cutting the overall

level of taxation while still allowing federal spending to grow. When tax cuts

go unmatched by spending cuts, they must be accompanied by additional public

borrowing from households and firms--thus by a dollar-for-dollar reduction in

otherwise investable private savings. Therefore, in a near-full-employment

economy only a tiny fraction of the cut is likely to show up as additional

private savings. If families and firms treat the tax cut just as they treat

other income, the savings might be six or seven cents on the dollar--a tiny

margin that can disappear entirely if there is a negative shift in the private

sector's overall inclination to save. As we have already observed, there was

such a negative shift.<p>



<p>



<p>



Other apologists for the 1980s "boom" have claimed that there is no historical

correlation between public-sector deficits in bust years and negative trade

balances. Even after budget deficits had soaked up some private savings, they

point out, there was still enough left over for Americans to be net investors

abroad; that's why bust years typically brought us an improvement in our trade

balance. Evidence that this time-tested pattern no longer obtained, however,

was already surfacing in 1982, when the steepest recession in thirty years was

accompanied by such large-scale federal borrowing that our current account--the

ledger of our financial transactions with foreigners--did not break even. Since

then we have been sailing in uncharted waters: a cyclical recovery accompanied

by enormous and widening foreign-capital inflows.<p>



<p>



<p>



Some apologists for the 1980s have gotten so carried away with the idea of

market expectations--Reaganomics is all about psychology and expectations--that

they can justify any catastrophe by references to a rosy future. Alan Reynolds,

the supply-side guru, believes that heavy foreign borrowing is a sign of

economic strength. He has compared our huge current-account deficit today to

Japan's big trade deficits in the 1950s, claiming that what the two situations

clearly have in common is buoyant growth expectations. Although some U.S.

observers in the 1950s were dubious about the wisdom of Japan's foreign

imbalance, "in retrospect, U.S. worries about Japan's trade deficits look

rather foolish." Likewise for the United States today. "What has happened in

the 1980s," Reynolds writes, "looks like a reversal of roles, with the U.S.

becoming the relatively vigorous tax haven, attracting foreign capital and

goods, while Europe and Japan slip into the stagnant, export-dependent role

that the U.S. experienced in the Eisenhower years."<p>



<p>



<p>



The argument is half right. Japan was a capital importer in the 1950s, because

it was a rapidly growing economy--more than that, it was a country literally

reconstructing itself after a war that had largely wiped out its industrial

base. It borrowed abroad to finance a higher investment level than would have

been possible by relying on its already hefty savings rate alone. The result

was an incredible net investment rate of well over 20 percent of GNP. Did such

capital inflows make sense? Of course, for they rapidly paid for themselves in

increased economic output. From 1950 to 1960 the Japanese economy grew at an

average real rate of nearly 10 percent a year; real net output per worker grew

at the extraordinary rate of 6.6 percent a year. The relative burden of

financing the nation's foreign-capital inflows (which ceased by the mid-1960s)

thus fell over time.<p>



<p>



<p>



The parallel between the United States and Japan, however, utterly escapes me.

Over the course of the 1980s the U.S. investment rate has been the

second-lowest in the industrialized world (just above Britain); meanwhile, the

rate of growth in our real net output per worker, absolutely the lowest, has

averaged about 0.4 percent a year. That is less than one fifteenth of what the

Japanese were experiencing thirty years ago. Japanese productivity in the

1950s, in other words, grew more in nine months than ours now grows over ten

years. And unlike Japan, we have been borrowing abroad for consumption, not

investment.<p>



<p>



<p>



To find the proper historical parallel for the United States in the 1980s we

should not look to Japan in the 1950s, nor should we look to our previous

experience with heavy borrowing from foreigners. That was in the 1870s, when we

issued bonds (at half the current interest rate) to Europeans in order to

finance our huge investment in railroads and heavy industry. Instead, we must

look to those rare historical occasions when an economy's large size, its world

class currency, and its open capital markets have allowed it to borrow immense

sums primarily for the purpose of consumption and without regard to productive

return. The illustrations of lumbering, deficit-hobbled, low-growth economies

that come most easily to mind are Spain's in the late sixteenth century,

France's in the 1780s, and Britain's in the 1920s.<p>



<p>



<p>



So there we have it: a conservative Republican Administration that promised us

a high-savings, high-productivity, highly competitive economy, with trade

surpluses, and gave us instead a torrid consumption boom financed by foreign

borrowing, an overvalued currency, and cuts in private investment, with

debt-financed hikes in public spending and huge balance-of-payments deficits.

It's the same script, proceeding toward the same woeful finale, that we have

seen played out over the years by many a Latin American debtor. As one wit has

put it, just as the 1970s saw the "greening" of America, the 1980s is seeing

the "Argentining" of America.<p>



<p>



<p>



Now let us examine the pieces of this fiscal debacle in more detail. We will

turn first to the critical near- and medium-term challenge of reducing our

foreign-credit inflow--and, at the same time, of coping with the harsh policy

choices and the danger of global crisis that must accompany such a reduction.

Then we will take a longer-term view of the inexorable link between investment

and living standards. Finally, we will discuss the manner in which American

public policy treats our future. If before the 1980s this manner was one of

neglect, today it borders on open contempt.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



"Owing It to Ourselves" No Longer<p>



<p>



How much, exactly, do we now owe the rest of the world? Officially, our net

position (what we are owed minus what we owe) at the end of 1986 was a negative

$264 billion. By the end of 1987 we will be closing in on a negative $400

billion. The incredible speed of America's transformation from creditor to

debtor can hardly be exaggerated. Only six years ago, at the end of 1981, the

United States had achieved its all-time apogee as a net creditor, with an

official position of a positive $141 billion. Over the past six years, in other

words, the United States has burned up more than $500 billion, net, by

liquidating our foreign assets and by borrowing from abroad. That's an immense

flow of capital, even in global terms. By 1986 our net borrowing had dwarfed

the fabled bank recycling of OPEC surpluses after the oil price hikes of 1973

and 1979. The sum was twice the size of all foreign interest payments by all

the less-developed debtor nations, and about half the approximate dollar value

of total net investment in all less-developed countries combined.<p>



<p>



<p>



What does the future have in store for a nation that is borrowing such sums

from foreigners? As a net debtor of growing proportions, the United States must

inevitably become a sizable net exporter of goods and services. (I repeat:

exporter.) This proposition is just a matter of arithmetic. Since our

indebtedness cannot grow indefinitely as a share of our GNP--beyond some point,

foreign creditors will regard us as a growing credit risk, a risk that must be

compensated for by prohibitively high interest rates--our current-account

deficit must eventually decline substantially. And when that happens, we will

have to export more than we import in order to service our deficits on interest

and dividend payments to foreigners. Just to say that something is inevitable,

of course, does not tell you when it will happen. But I think it's fair to say

that the growth of America's foreign debt may push us--painfully--to a

current-account balance and a trade surplus by the mid-1990s, and almost

certainly will do so by the year 2000.<p>



<p>



<p>



Our opportunity for a relatively smooth readjustment is perilously narrow. On

the one hand, it seems likely that the rest of the world will grow reluctant to

keep lending to the United States once our net indebtedness rises much beyond

35 percent of our GNP, or a bit more than $1 trillion at today's prices. Some

experts suggest that this debt may entail net U.S. debt-service payments

equivalent, as a share of exports, to those of many developing nations and

about on a par with Germany's reparations burden following the First World War.

The experts agree that it is quite impossible for the United States to go on

indefinitely borrowing principal at or near its current rate of 3.4 percent of

GNP per year. Such borrowing, combined with accumulating debt-service costs,

would dictate an absurd $3 trillion in net debt by the end of the century and

foreign investors would close down the pipeline long before we got there.<p>



<p>



<p>



On the other hand, it is practically inevitable that our net debt will reach

the $1 trillion mark by the early 1990s no matter how vigorously we act to stem

the inflow of foreign savings. Obviously, there are limits to the speed with

which the United States can curtail consumption and generate growth in net

exports. Consider, for instance, a scenario in which the United States,

starting next year, makes steady additions to the value of its net exports such

that its current account reaches zero by 1994 and its net debt is reduced to

today's level by the year 2000. That sounds like a rather modest achievement.

Yet it will still lead to a net debt of about $1 trillion by 1994 and will

require a real improvement in U.S. net exports of more than $20 billion a year,

each year, for the next ten years, or a total positive shift of more than $200

billion. As Fred Bergsten has observed, the magnitude of the necessary

adjustment facing us is equivalent to about two thirds of our entire defense

budget and is several times larger than the total shift resulting in the United

States from the 1970s oil shocks.<p>



<p>



<p>



According to the adjustment scenario above, we need to reduce our foreign

borrowing stream by $20 billion yearly, or $200 yearly for each of our 100

million workers. Yet real net product per worker has been growing each year by

just $135. Further, our continuing debt growth will mean that about $40 per

worker per year must be devoted to rising foreign debt-service payments. And to

increase productivity sufficiently to raise net exports will require at least

our 1970s level of net investment at home--an additional $60 per worker per

year over a decade.<p>



<p>



<p>



So where are we going to find, each year, the extra $20 billion in unconsumed

exportable production necessary to make this readjustment scenario work? Over

the next decade, with only $35 per worker available ($135, minus $40, minus

$60), consumption per worker in the United States may have to decline by $165

each year. That's $1,650 overall for the average worker, and of course we can

expect those Americans with the most vulnerable incomes--minority workers,

young adults laboring under two-tier contracts, and service employees who

receive no benefits--to suffer losses that are far greater than average.

Neither the American public nor the nation's politicians have even begun to

face this prospect. In comparison, during the 1970s--a decade now known to most

of us as "hard times"--U.S. consumption per worker nonetheless rose by $200

each year. What the early 1980s gave us, the 1990s may well take away.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



In what exports, specifically, is the United States going to see the enormous

gains it must achieve to lower its trade deficit? First of all, we can forget

about any major contributions from the 22 percent of our trade exports now

composed of agricultural goods and raw materials. The $25 billion trade surplus

we had in agricultural exports in 1981 shrank to $3 billion last year. Over the

past decade the European Economic Community has raised its grain balance,

improbably enough, from a deficit of 25 million tons to a surplus of 16 million

tons. India, Pakistan, and China have all become net farm-product exporters.

Even the Soviet Union now seriously asserts the breathtaking goal of becoming a

net food exporter by the year 2000. We will therefore be lucky to slow the

current decline in our agricultural balance. Much the same goes for raw

materials.<p>



<p>



<p>



As for oil imports, nearly all experts expect that declining U.S. production

will push our current 25 to 30 percent dependence on oil imports to 50 to 60

percent during the 1990s, and at higher prices. Philip Verleger, Jr., a

visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics, estimates that

the value of our oil imports will rise from $4 billion in 1985 to $120 billion

or $130 billion by the mid-1990s. The 1980s have been happy, quiescent years

from an energy standpoint, but we may, in the 1990s, again face some of the

energy turbulence of the 1970s. The $70 billion real improvement (in 1986

dollars) in the energy balance that Americans have enjoyed since 1980, in other

words, will reverse direction. Let's be optimistic and assume that our annual

total farm and raw-materials balance for the foreseeable future will decline by

only $10 billion per year. That means we need a good $30 billion yearly

improvement in the remaining 75 percent of our exports--namely,

manufacturing.<p>



<p>



<p>



Some critics balk at this point and complain that this logic unfairly omits our

exports in services. According to a recent Fortune article titled "The Economy

of the 1990s," the United States will improve its balance on services by $125

billion between now and the year 2000. This service surplus, like some deus ex

machina, is supposed to more than pay the debt service on what Fortune admits

will be a "debt mountain" of some $1 trillion by the mid-1990s. This analysis

confuses a large flow of services that are actually debt service (for example,

the payment of interest and dividends) with a much smaller flow of services

that are actually current production (for example, travel, shipping, and

insurance). We already know what will happen to the balance on the former

type--it's going to go deep into the red. And U.S. exports of the latter type,

unfortunately, are both too small (a total of $49 billion in 1986) and too

inflexible to make much difference. Two thirds of these exports consist of

shipping, transportation, and travel; the rest consist of business services

that usually accompany trade exports. In fact, since so many of our high-tech

service exports are linked to manufacturing exports, it strikes me as virtually

meaningless to project one without the other.<p>



<p>



Let's be optimistic and assume that service exports will eventually grow by

fifty percent. That still leaves us with a need to increase our manufacturing

exports by $275 billion, or achieve a real annual growth rate of 10 percent

over the next decade. Can we emulate Japan and sustain such a prodigious

performance in manufacturing over so many years. Perhaps we can, but the

prospect seems daunting. So far in this decade our manufactured exports have

actually declined in real terms, but over the coming decade we will be aiming

for a higher export growth rate than we have yet achieved in the twentieth

century. In every respect the achievement would be unprecedented: we would have

not only to break our earlier record but to do it with a lower average level of

domestic business investment, with a complete freeze on imports, and with

steadily declining living standards.<p>



<p>



<p>



Any way one looks at it, the arithmetic is cruel and inescapable. It's hard to

imagine huge growth in our manufacturing output, for instance, without a very

large increase in domestic business investment. But to further increase

investment at home we may have to undergo a further decline in consumption, in

order to hold constant our net export improvement. And, clearly, we are not

going to see any decline in consumption in favor of saving unless there is a

radical change in our public policy, especially our fiscal policy (something I

will discuss later on), and in our politics as well.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



There remains, moreover, yet another problematic assumption in our readjustment

scenario: the willingness, or even the ability, of the rest of the world to

absorb our proposed huge increase in manufacturing exports. Current thinking on

this problem seems to grow out of two separate theories. One theory emphasizes

foreign economic growth, the other exchange rates.<p>



<p>



<p>



The foremost proponent of the first theory is the Reagan Administration, which

has repeatedly insisted that higher rates of growth abroad--particularly in the

stagnant-demand economies of West Germany and Japan--will solve our problem.

This is a worthy idea but hardly a solution. Consider, for instance, a

sustained one-percent real increase in economic growth in the rest of the

world--say, from about the current 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent (surely we cannot

expect more). Then imagine that all this growth is purely domestic. Using rosy

"multiplier" assumptions, we could get a two- or even four-percent real

increase in exports. Recall, however, that we need a 10 percent real

increase.<p>



<p>



<p>



The second theory, to which many economists subscribe, is that any level of net

export improvement is possible as long as we endure a "sufficient" decline in

the exchange rate--that is, a continued fall in the value of the dollar

relative to other currencies which will make our goods more attractive to

foreign buyers.<p>



<p>



<p>



Experience demonstrates, however, that exchange-rate adjustment also has its

difficulties. Over the past few years nearly all economists have been humbled

by how far they had overstated the extent to which world trade balances would

adjust to the recent fall in the dollar. Given this track record, it is cause

for deep reflection that forecasts now being made in major think tanks say that

even a 25 percent further devaluation of the dollar will be lucky to push the

annual U.S. current-account deficit much below $100 billion over the next few

years. The underlying problem might be posed as follows: even if we accept a

lower dollar, which I believe to be virtually inevitable, will economies in the

rest of the world accept it? The challenge facing America--generating a $275

billion positive swing in manufactured exports over the next decade--sounds

tough enough without worrying about whether our trading partners will

accommodate our necessities. Yet we often forget that our objective of huge

yearly increases in U.S. net exports translates directly into decreases in the

net exports of our major trading partners (recently the very source of much of

their growth). It's not just a question of our resolve; it's also a question of

their resolve, something over which we have little or no control.<p>



<p>



<p>



What we hope, of course, is that our trading partners will accept our agenda.

In general, we want them to raise the demand for goods and services in their

countries at the same pace at which we are suppressing demand, with smaller

fiscal deficits and higher private savings rates, in our own country.

Specifically, we hope they will stimulate their domestic demand with looser

fiscal policy, keep their currency strong with restrained monetary policy, and

pull down import barriers so that U.S. exports can expand with minimal pressure

on exchange rates. Our unspoken assumption is that once we decide to act, they

can be expected to cooperate.<p>



<p>



<p>



In reality, foreign economies may be otherwise inclined. Instead of loosening

fiscal policy, they may continue to tighten--raising their own national savings

rates in tandem with ours even at the risk of a collapse in global demand. And

instead of embracing a lower dollar, they may continue to resist it, either by

pushing their exports harder (with price cuts and aggressive marketing) or by

discouraging imports (with official or unofficial import barriers or simply a

social consensus not to "buy American"). Either way, readjustment may entail

risks that persuade all parties to abandon the effort. In the former case the

risk is worldwide economic stagnation. In the latter the risk is a precipitous

fall in the dollar and the danger of financial panic.<p>



<p>



<p>



Why might our trading partners not want to cooperate? For one thing, foreign

leaders may be slow to believe that the United States will do what it says it

intends to. Look at it from their point of view. Ever since 1983 the United

States has been assuring the rest of the world that it is just about to cut

back on its budget and current-account deficits and that other countries should

therefore immediately begin stimulating their domestic demand in order to "pick

up the slack." Other countries have responded with caution, and in

retrospect--the U.S. deficits having grown rather than shrunk--their leaders

must now be glad they were cautious. They still have their exports, they still

have their productivity growth, and they still have stable prices.<p>



<p>



<p>



Given the recent sharp fall in the dollar, many Americans figure that our

trading partners have begun to see the handwriting on the wall. Surely, we

think, Europe and Japan must soon opt for large-scale domestic stimulus in

their own interest--especially when it means the instant pleasure for their own

citizens of more disposable income and more consumption. Yet here we confront a

deeper issue--the vast differences in culture, history, and politics which make

it just as hard for other industrial countries to do what we find natural

(stimulate consumption) as it is for us to do what they find natural (stimulate

savings). We find inflation worth risking, but the West Germans, scarred by the

memory of the 1920s, would rather risk recession. We find it easy to sacrifice

exports on the altar of the high dollar, but the Japanese, who have spent

generations fighting to earn dollars to pay for their food, raw materials, and

oil, find the equivalent idea tantamount to economic surrender (particularly

considering their long-sought, stunning manufacturing trade surplus of $150

billion, or about eight percent of their GNP). The necessary reversals in

national economic direction are profound. If we assign Japan one third of the

needed adjustment, for example, or $50 billion annually by 1994, this would

amount to eight percent of its total manufacturing output (in a negative

direction). To those who argue that Japan adjusted successfully to two oil

shocks, and so can handle this challenge, I argue that those shocks required

the Japanese to do more of what they had always been doing (namely, exporting),

while the present predicament will require them to do less. American leaders

think that stimulating domestic demand is child's play. Most leaders abroad do

not. They are, in fact, extremely doubtful that their consumers will be able to

pick up where exports to America leave off.<p>



<p>



<p>



To allay doubts about our intentions, we must change our policy in credible and

irrevocable ways, and announce these changes ahead of time. Readjustment

becomes sticky when, even in the face of changing prices, foreign exporters

hope to preserve their sunk costs, their hard-won market shares, and their

relentless productivity and cost-reduction efforts--as Americans hooked on

imports hope to preserve their buying habits. Those hopes are our enemy. We

cannot cloud the air with chatter about painless global growth when in fact we

are asking exporters abroad and importers at home to endure inevitable

hardships.<p>



<p>



<p>



Second, to eliminate uncertainty about the implications of our policy, we must

talk realistically about a genuine transformation of the world's major

political economies. "Fair trade" (whatever that means) isn't really the point.

Our objective is to raise U.S. exports so that we avert a tragedy that

threatens everyone--a global crash. Finally, to encourage political as well as

economic balance in the world, we must renounce our recent policy of "global

Keynesianism"--the policy of being everyone's buyer of last resort. The

mercantilist aggressions bred by such a policy, including retaliatory

protection and games of "chicken" with exchange rates, have themselves become a

major obstacle to readjustment. Confidence, not fear, is the best way to get

foreigners to retool their export plants for their own domestic markets.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



If we simply proceed with the "business as usual" approach to the world's

growing imbalance, America's foreign creditors will ultimately become aware

that the situation is unsustainable. At that point anything, from a small

decrease in the value of the dollar to a mild political crisis, could cause

investors around the world to decide to rid themselves of dollar-denominated

assets. If the resulting plunge in the dollar's exchange rate persuades ever

larger numbers of investors to follow suit, the "dollar overhang" might at last

turn into the worst freefall nightmare of Paul Volcker, the former Federal

Reserve chairman: an avalanche pouring down on the dollar's financial capitals,

from London to San Francisco.<p>



<p>



<p>



The United States, in response, would have little choice but to raise interest

rates sky-high, in order to attract at least some investors to the dollar to

finance our budget deficits. We would also have to acquiesce in a long and

almost deliberate recession, both to shut down most of our foreign borrowing

(in a matter of months rather than years) and to suppress U.S. demand for

imports. Actually, the recession is likely to be of the "stagflation" variety,

since higher import prices may double our inflation rate even before we prime

the pump. The peak-to-trough downturn could be quite steep indeed and could

easily become our most severe economic crisis since the 1930s. Nor have I yet

mentioned how the razor-edge plight of many less-developed debtor nations will

add to the danger. Every forecast I have seen warns that the largest South

American debtors will be pushed from illiquidity to insolvency by a far milder

recession, and far smaller interest-rate hikes, than those envisioned here.

Many have even suggested that spreading defaults among less-developed countries

may precipitate the crisis.<p>



<p>



<p>



No one knows, of course, how long such a hard landing would last. It is

possible, I hope, that it would be limited to a financial crunch followed by a

severe but brief recession, rather than a lengthy depression. The economy could

recover with relatively moderate increases in world unemployment, but surely

the value of the dollar would be much lower and U.S. import levels would be

much reduced. This is what I call the "bumpy start-and-stop" scenario--the one

that has afflicted postwar Great Britain. Under this scenario the standard of

living in the United States would have dropped, its indebtedness would be

little changed (but no longer growing), its international responsibilities

would be necessarily curtailed, and its people would be aware, through

occasional jumps in interest rates and the yo-yo behavior of the dollar, that

their economic fate was hostage to the tenuous and nervous confidence of

outsiders. The British economist Michael Stewart recently observed that "anyone

who has lived through our 40 years of balance of payments crises, and seen the

constraints they have imposed on domestic policies, must stand amazed at the

insouciance with which the United States is piling up external debt." These

constraints, of course, were not only domestic; they also hobbled British

foreign policy--most dramatically in the Suez crisis of 1956, when the United

States, which held reserves of British sterling as foreigners hold our dollars

today, warned the British that we would declare war on the pound if they did

not stop their invasion of Egypt. So much for the perils of dependence on

foreign investors.<p>



<p>



<p>



Should we have the worst hard landing--a lengthy U.S. depression--let us simply

be forewarned that our traditional policy responses would be of limited use.

Hardship-bloated budget deficits would prevent us from applying more fiscal

stimulus; a low and skittish dollar would defy our attempts to loosen monetary

policy. Whereas the "start-and-stop" landing presumes that Americans could pay

for their debts by a one-time shock in living standards, and thereafter by

slower productivity growth and reduced international leadership, the

true-depression hard landing presumes that Americans would service and pay off

their debts through indefinite impoverishment. Either scenario could, of

course, lead to a resurgence in state control over the economy (on a scale that

might put Jimmy Carter's credit controls to shame)--an ironic last act in an

opera that opened with the chorus singing praises to laissez-faire.<p>



<p>



Some observers play down the possibility of such a crisis. They point to the

apparent ease with which the world has so far endured a substantial decline in

the dollar's value. Clearly, however, the easy stage is now coming to an end.

In trade, the dollar has now reached the point at which further declines can no

longer be absorbed by exporters' profit margins and will leave no foreign

alternative other than structural change or economic stagnation. Just as the

American economy has since 1980 suffered the trauma of de-industrialization, so

the Japanese economy has begun to suffer from what some Japanese call the

"hollowing out" of their industries--worker layoffs, unused capacity, and a

scramble toward offshore assembly. In finance, further dollar declines are

likely to be accompanied not by lower U.S. interest rates, as in the past, but

by unchanged or even higher interest rates, as we experienced last spring. This

will present the Fed with a no-win choice between defending the dollar and

loosening credit. And it will hit foreign investors with the double whammy of

further exchange-rate losses compounded by losses in bond-market values. The

preconditions for a dollar-dump panic, in short, may already be moving into

place.<p>



<p>



<p>



Of course, one hopes that Americans will never have to live through these

dismal outcomes. But avoiding them will take great effort--not just in changing

policy but ultimately in changing our very self-image and in persuading our

trading partners to change theirs. Japan's problem, a senior official there

told me recently, is global-asset management; ours, alas, is global-debt

management.<p>



<p>



<p>



The financial expert David Hale has written, "The U.S. is a debtor nation with

the habits of a creditor nation while Germany and Japan are creditor nations

with the habits of debtor nations." Needless to say, America must soon change

its habits, including its fixation on creative consumption. Our ability to do

so safely, however, will depend on more than just our own hard work and

determination. It will also depend on whether we can persuade our trading

partners to change their habits, at the same speed and at the same time that we

are changing ours.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



Turning Away From Posterity<p>



<p>



Our growing foreign debt and trade deficit not only threaten a sacrifice in our

consumption levels but also symptomize our unwillingness to acknowledge a

deeper and more long-standing disease: a steady thinning out of those

activities and attitudes that tend to generate, over the long term, a rising

level of productive efficiency. When the seriousness of this problem became

increasingly apparent, during the 1970s, we should logically have chosen to

allocate fewer of our resources toward consumption and more toward investing in

productive physical and human capital. Instead, under a supply-side banner, we

have blindly chosen to do the opposite.<p>



<p>



<p>



Does it matter that our productivity is growing only a fraction as fast as it

was in the 1950s or 1960s? Indeed it does. To recognize some of the

consequences, we have only to consider that to end foreign borrowing with no

change in per-worker consumption or domestic investment will take us twelve

years of productivity growth at the current rate. The same task would take us

only a bit more than three years at the growth rate of the 1960s or only a bit

more than two years at the rate of the 1950s. To put it another way: Our

per-worker flow of foreign borrowing, as we have seen, is now running at about

$1,350 a year. But whereas the net product per worker that is left after we

service our debt, and that we can apply to reducing our current-account

deficit, is rising by only $95 a year now, it would be rising by $630 a year at

1960s growth rates and by $985 a year at 1950s growth rates.<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet it would be wrong to see productivity differences solely in terms of our

foreign balances. Far more important is the role such differences must play in

determining long-term growth in our future living standards. The cumulative

impact of small differences in yearly growth rates cannot be underestimated.

Consider the year 2020, when those who are now infants will be in the prime of

their working life. If productivity growth proceeds at its 1980s rate (and does

not decline still further), the average worker in 2020 will be producing

$40,100 worth of real goods and services, only about 14 percent more than his

or her parents are producing today ($35,300). Under the

smoothest-possible-readjustment scenario already described, which would result

in declining per-worker consumption through most of the rest of this century,

even by 2020 his or her yearly consumption will have risen only eight percent

above the 1986 level.<p>



<p>



<p>



America's standard of living, for the first time in its history, will have

hardly budged for a span of forty years. The 1980s and 1990s may be remembered,

with bitterness, as a turning point in America's fortunes--a period of

transition when we took the British route to second-class economic status.

Britain's decline took seventy-five years of productivity-growth rates that

were half a percentage point lower than those of its industrial competitors.

Because America's corresponding gap is more than three times as large, its

relative decline is proceeding far more swiftly.<p>



<p>



<p>



If, however, U.S. productivity now started growing again at the 7.4 percent

average rate that prevailed during the 1950s and 1960s, miraculous though that

would seem, our sons and daughters in 2020 would each be producing $77,200

worth of real goods and services--some 120 percent more than their parents are

each producing today. Consumption standards would rise by nearly as much, since

we would have been able both to close our foreign-borrowing gap and to recoup

our foreign liabilities by the early 1990s. In this case our grandchildren

would look back on us as relative paupers, and by 2020 Americans would be

enjoying buoyant prosperity and widening social opportunities in a nation that

would still be a leading force in the world's economic and political affairs.<p>



<p>



<p>



Understandably, most Americans do not want to confront the painful idea that we

are headed toward the wrong future. Yet that is the melancholy fact of the

matter. What is less understandable is the strident defense that so many

opinion leaders offer for our present course. We hear time and again that the

U.S. economy in the present decade has grown "as fast as" or "faster than" the

collective economy of the rest of the industrial world. So far as this claim

goes, it is correct. From 1979 through 1986 real U.S. GNP grew by a rate of 2.1

percent a year--about the same growth rate as that of the collective GNP of all

other industrial nations. However, in the United States most of the growth (70

percent) was due to increases in the number of workers, while in the other

countries most of the growth (85 percent) was due to increases in output per

worker.<p>



<p>



<p>



The rapid growth in U.S. employment has partly been the consequence of an

entrepreneurial and new-business surge, the flexibility of our labor markets,

and several booms (for example, a consumption boom, providing jobs in

distribution; the health-care-for-the-elderly boom; the home-services and

eating-out boom; and the postwar Baby Boom, which has no counterpart in other

countries). According to a recent Commerce Department report, from 1981 to 1986

the equivalent of nine million full-time jobs were created. And yet, contrary

to the widespread impression, this represents a job-creation slowdown; over the

previous six years the equivalent of 14 million full-time jobs were created.<p>



<p>



<p>



In any case, this kind of growth must cease within a few years, when all the

Baby Boomers are employed, and reverse itself in future decades, when young

adults will be scarce and retiring workers ever more plentiful. More important,

it is not the kind of growth that raises our standard of living. Augmenting

production by adding more working bodies (what classical economists used to

call the "dismal" Asian model) does not enhance the standard of living. Only

augmenting production per working person does that, and Europe and Japan do

that far more successfully than we do. The employment of the largest and

best-educated generation of Americans in history should have caused U.S. GNP to

rise far faster than GNP in any other country--as it should also have pushed up

our savings rate, since presumably this working generation of young adults will

want to allocate some of the extra production to provide for their children and

their own retirement (as the Baby Boom becomes the Senior Boom). Instead, with

the part-time nature and much lower value-added character of many of the new

jobs, we have barely managed to keep pace with the GNPs of our competitors, and

our savings rate has declined. This is not success but a large-scale admission

of failure.<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet it is surely true, the optimists say, that productivity growth and

investment performance in the other industrial countries have declined sharply

over the past fifteen years, and this must mean that we are doing better than

they are. Not really. Because the performance of the other countries was so

superior to begin with, and because our own performance has also fallen,

product per worker is still growing considerably faster abroad than here in the

United States.<p>



<p>



<p>



How have these economies managed? The most apparent factor has been much higher

investment levels. Here, Japan is the leader. From the 1960s to the 1980s its

total net investment as a share of GNP (including investment in public

infrastructure as well as in all private structures and equipment) has fallen

from 22.6 percent to 16.1 percent: the latter figure, however, is still three

times larger than the equivalent U.S. figure for the 1980s (5.3 percent). In

fact, at 1986 exchange rates (as the dollar falls, the comparison is getting

worse) Japanese net investment in 1986 amounted to $300 billion, while U.S.

investment amounted to only $270 billion. (This has been the result, in part,

of a cost of capital in Japan that has consistently been less than half ours--a

situation not at all helped by the 1986 Tax Reform Act.) It is a spectacle that

ought to shock Americans: a population half the size of our own, living on a

group of islands the size of California, is adding more each year to its stock

of factories, houses, bridges, and laboratories--in absolute terms--than we are

to ours. And Japan still has savings left over, about $80 billion in 1986, to

lend to thriftless foreigners. (About $50 billion of that sum was lent to us.)

Between the two countries, therefore, the 1986 disparity in net savings ($380

billion in Japan versus only $125 billion in the United States, a six-to-one

per capita difference) was even more lopsided.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



For years many U.S. experts have been predicting that the relative

productivity-growth advantage of the other industrial countries would soon slow

down. Back in the 1960s and early 1970s such predictions were based on the

"postwar reconstruction" thesis. Industrial phenomena like Japan and West

Germany, it was said, were growing faster merely because they still had to

"replace" the capital stock they had lost in the Second World War. More

recently this line of reasoning has been abandoned, because it obviously cannot

explain why these countries have replaced most of their business plant and

equipment several times over since the early 1950s. In Japan, to take the

extreme example, there is hardly a single factory now standing that has not

been built, rebuilt, or entirely re-equipped since the mid-1970s. Indeed, each

Japanese worker is supported by more than twice the plant and equipment that

supports his or her American counterpart. A new argument, therefore, has become

popular. This is the so-called convergence thesis, according to which other

countries are getting a free ride by copying American technological

breakthroughs. Once the other countries reach our level, it is said, their

productivity growth must slow down sharply. At that point they will have to do

the same tough "pioneer" work that we do.<p>



<p>



<p>



The convergence thesis makes sense only if we assume that the other countries'

overall disadvantage relative to the United States is spread about equally

across every economic sector and that it is especially marked in manufacturing,

where technology presumably is most important. Unfortunately this assumption

isn't plausible. Most economists agree that America's remaining absolute

advantage is due mostly to superior productivity in agriculture, raw materials,

and services, and that little if any of it is now due to superior productivity

in manufacturing.<p>



<p>



<p>



Instead of hoping for convergence, we Americans ought to recognize that we are

already getting beaten in manufacturing. We must also recognize that over the

foreseeable future the biggest productivity-growth opportunities in Europe and

Japan will lie in improving efficiency in agriculture and services--something

that requires no big research-and-development breakthroughs and could occur

with disquieting suddenness.<p>



<p>



<p>



The defenders of Reaganomics, of course, protest against any such conclusions.

The growth of U.S. manufacturing productivity, they claim, has been one of our

great achievements in the 1980s. And now that the dollar is back down where it

was when President Reagan took office, American exporters will no longer have

to compete against absurdly cheap foreign labor costs. The future, then, looks

bright.<p>



<p>



<p>



But does it really? True enough, U.S. manufacturing productivity has recently

run against our economy's declining trend. For example, from 1979 to 1985 Ford

reduced its global employment by nearly 30 percent while reducing its car and

truck output by only about five percent. Overall growth in manufacturing

productivity rose from a yearly average of 2.3 percent in the 1970s to nearly

3.2 percent in the 1980s. What the optimists do not point out, however, is that

such numbers are the perverse if pro-competitive result of seven catastrophic

years for U.S. manufacturers--two domestic recessions (1980 and 1982-1983)

followed by a high dollar export recession (1984-1986).<p>



<p>



<p>



Still less do the defenders of the 1980s want to point out that U.S.

manufacturing productivity, even with the help of its recent job-slashing

acceleration, grew more slowly during the 1980s than the average for our major

industrial competitors. And far from granting slower real pay raises, foreign

manufacturing exporters have been using their productivity advantage to grant

their workers much larger pay raises than firms in the United States have done.

Since 1969 real manufacturing pay has risen by only 17 percent in the United

States, but by a colossal 115 percent in Japan.<p>



<p>



<p>



The fact that U.S. wages have grown even more slowly than U.S. productivity

certainly reflects the adverse exchange-rate climb of the dollar during the

early 1980s. But since the gap in wage growth was already apparent at the end

of the 1970s--before the dollar's long climb--some experts suggest that it may

also reflect a negative shift in the image of U.S. goods for quality and

reliability. Our decline in underlying competitiveness, in other words, may be

even greater than what the output-per-worker numbers indicate. For this reason

the recent emphasis on quality by many U.S. manufacturers can only be regarded

as gratifying.<p>



<p>



A final defense of our economic performance in the 1980s rests on the sweeping

claim that none of this "smokestack" productivity matters anymore because our

economy will henceforth thrive on our alleged global monopoly on information

and inventions. Pure products of the mind have limited appeal as final consumer

products, however, and so one wonders how they can generate wealth unless we

have the capability--the plants, tools, and production skills--to turn them

into salable goods and services. Perhaps, it is said, we could sell this

intellectual property directly to foreigners. A good idea, but the numbers

hardy indicate that such sales could ever drive our economy by themselves. In

1986 our total net receipts from royalty and licensing contracts with

unaffiliated foreigners (including movie and TV rights) amounted to about $1.5

billion, or about four ten-thousandths of our GNP. And in inflation-adjusted

dollars our receipts of this kind have actually been declining over the past

decade.<p>



<p>



<p>



Knowledge and innovation, to be sure, are an absolutely vital precondition for

long-term economic growth. But we Americans tend to overrate the significance

of our leadership here. We forget that intellectual glitz and scientific glory

do not always translate into the humble, wealth-generating chores of commercial

innovation. Although we like to point out that we lead the world in the share

of GNP that we devote to research and development, we neglect to add that much

of this is devoted to obscure weapons R&amp;D that leads to few commercial

spinoffs. In civilian R&amp;D we lag behind both Japan and West Germany. We

should be pleased with the rapid growth of venture and equity financing for

small high-tech businesses during the 1980s, but we should also be cautious:

thus far we have seen no comparable surge in small-business R&amp;D, no

reversal in the downward trend in U.S. patent applications, and no resurgence

in high-tech exports. As for U.S. universities, they are indeed a global

showcase for Nobel laureates and pathbreaking research. Yet most of the

brilliance emanating from our universities is as freely available to foreigners

as it is to our own citizens.<p>



<p>



<p>



More important, it is hard to imagine any long-term economic

renaissance--especially one built on "working smarter"--without a determined

investment in the most precious of our assets: the skills, intellect, work

habits, health, and character of our children. Yet this is precisely where we

may be courting our most catastrophic failure. In the words of one analyst

cited by the 1983 National Commission on Excellence in Education, "For the

first time in the history of our country, the educational skills of one

generation will not surpass, will not equal, will not even approach, those of

their parents." Recent trends indicate that each year the typical American

child is increasingly likely to be born in poverty and to grow up in a broken

family. And a study by the Committee for Economic Development points out that

without major educational change, by the year 2000 we will have turned out

close to 20 million young people with no productive place in our society. The

CED study continues, "Solutions to the problems of the educationally

disadvantaged must include a fundamental restructuring of the school system.

But they must also reach beyond the traditional boundaries of schooling to

improve the environment of the child. An early and sustained intervention in

the lives of disadvantaged children both in school and out is our only hope for

breaking the cycle of disaffection and despair." Our children represent the

furthest living reach of posterity, the only compelling reason that we have to

be serious about investing in the future. And we are failing them.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



The Politics of Debt<p>



<p>



There is no question that federal fiscal policy deserves much of the blame for

our national failure to invest during the 1980s; recall that the 1986 federal

deficit consumed the equivalent of 90 percent of all private-sector savings

that year. On the one hand, opinion polls consistently show that the American

public overwhelmingly favors, in theory, a balanced budget. On the other hand,

serious attempts to reduce the deficit continue to encounter, in practice,

enormous bipartisan resistance. Congress and the Administration invent

countless reasons why solving the problem can be postponed just a bit longer or

why the deficit can't really be doing us that much harm.<p>



<p>



<p>



We have little time left to get beyond such rationalizations. It is sometimes

asserted that our economy's saving behavior would be pretty much the same today

without a federal deficit. But, again, consider the numbers. During the 1980s

we have succeeded in nearly tripling the national debt, from $645 billion (at

the end of fiscal year 1979) to $1.745 trillion (at the end of fiscal year

1986). We have, in addition, saddled ourselves with an informal debt of nearly

$10 trillion in unfunded liabilities in Social Security, Medicare, and federal

pensions. That astronomical figure is the difference between the benefits

today's workers are now scheduled to receive and the future taxes today's

workers are slated to pay for them. It amounts to a hidden tax of $100,000 on

every American worker, and its toll will be exacted on our children.<p>



<p>



<p>



For Americans to believe that their national balance sheet is in the same shape

now as it used to be, they would have to believe that the enduring investments

made by the federal government during the past seven years are comparable to

all those made during the preceding two centuries--including the taming of the

frontier, victories in several wars, the Marshall Plan, miracle vaccines, the

Apollo missions, Grand Coulee Dam, and the interstate highway system.<p>



<p>



<p>



From fiscal year 1979 to 1986 federal revenue fell from 18.9 percent to 18.5

percent of GNP, while federal outlays rose from 20.5 percent to 23.8 percent of

GNP. Why has federal spending risen? The big growth areas over the past seven

years have been defense, entitlement benefits, and interest on our national

debt; all other spending has been cut back dramatically. Over the longer term,

however, entitlement benefits dominate the picture. Since 1965 they have grown

from 5.4 percent to 11.5 percent of GNP; all other spending excluding interest

(which simply represents the permanent cost of cumulative deficits) has

declined from 11.0 percent to 9.5 percent of GNP. This growth in entitlements

over the past twenty-one years is equivalent to 6.1 percent of GNP--an amount

greater than the entire investment we currently make in all business plant and

equipment, plus all civilian R&amp;D, plus all public infrastructure. Even

defense spending, as a share of GNP, has risen only half as much during the

1980s as it declined during the 1970s. At 6.6 percent of GNP in 1986, defense

spending is still lower than it was in any year from 1950 to 1973.<p>



<p>



<p>



Our budget-cutting efforts during the 1980s have failed because they have

allowed continued growth in the one type of spending--for entitlement

benefits--that had already risen to unprecedented heights. Even where the 1980s

budget ax has fallen hard, the major victims have been precisely those rare

federal programs whose purpose is physical or human investment rather than

consumption.<p>



<p>



<p>



This last point is worth emphasizing, for it explains the unique vulnerability

in recent years of that small area of the federal budget called discretionary

non-defense spending. That's the old-fashioned type of spending in which

(Congress--unconstrained by automatic-indexing formulas and prior-year

contracts--votes on bills each year, presumably for the best interest of our

national future. Unfortunately, since the future has no lobby, no formula, and

no contract, the Administration and Congress have found this the perfect place

to demonstrate their budget-cutting zeal publicly even while allowing all other

types of spending to keep rising. By 1986 discretionary non-defense spending

had been cut to 4.09 percent of GNP, its lowest level since 1961.<p>



<p>



<p>



This spending category includes that bellwether of federal investment activity

the maintenance and construction of America's public infrastructure. Net real

investment in roads, bridges, mass transit, and other public works has dropped

by 75 percent over the past two decades; much of our infrastructure is wearing

out far more rapidly than it is being replaced. We do not have a new generation

of infrastructure technology, from high-speed trains to underwater tunnels,

because we have chosen not to pay for it.<p>



<p>



<p>



But the steep decline in federal investment during the 1980s has not been

limited to infrastructure. Investment in our environment and in human

capital--research, education, job skills, and remedial social services--has

also plummeted. These, too, have now been deemed superfluous. From 1979 to

1986, in real dollars, federal spending on natural resources has been cut by 24

percent, non-defense R&amp;D by 25 percent, aid to schools by 14 percent, and

energy preparedness by 65 percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



Far from forcing a "revolution" in the role of the federal government, the

1980s have instead seen the federal budget become an ever larger and more

efficient consumption machine. In the mid-1960s checks mailed out automatically

(to bond owners, health insurers, retirees, state and local benefit

administrators) accounted for about 58 percent of all federal non-defense

spending. By 1979 their share stood at 68 percent; today it has grown to nearly

80 percent. We have now reached the point, in fact, where even if we eliminated

all discretionary non-defense spending (imagine that we could fire all

civil-service employees and replace them with a giant check-writing machine),

the federal budget would still be running a deficit. Our government's function

as an investor, a steward of our collective future, is small and shrinking. Its

function as a consumer, a switchboard for income transfers, is large arid

growing.<p>



<p>



<p>



Surely, it is argued in defense of the growth in entitlements, the alleviation

of poverty also constitutes "investment" of a sort--an investment in the

long-term social and economic benefits of preventing serious material hardship.

If the premise were valid--that federal entitlements go to the poor--this would

be a worthy argument. Unfortunately, the facts seem to be otherwise. In 1986

the U.S. public sector spent about $525 billion, or 12.5 percent of GNP, in

benefit payments to individuals. Of this total, about $455 billion was financed

at the federal level: about $360 billion consisted of cash payments, and the

rest consisted of in-kind payments (for example, health care, food stamps, and

rental assistance). How much of all this went toward alleviating poverty? No

one knows for certain, but probably no more than about 20 percent of the total,

or approximately $100 billion. The rest represents income transfers from

non-poor taxpayers to non-poor beneficiaries (and, increasingly, to non-poor

purchasers of federal debt).<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



This result should not be surprising, considering that of the $455 billion

dispensed from the federal budget, 85 percent was not means-tested--in other

words, was not targeted to people living in poverty. These non-means-tested

benefits went, by and large, to those groups least likely to be poor. The

lion's share, $271 billion, consisted of Social Security and Medicare payments,

which went indiscriminately to nearly every elderly person. The elderly now

enjoy the lowest poverty rate--less than three percent when the calculation

includes total benefit income--of any age group. Far from targeting the poor,

Social Security cash benefits are actually regressive, in the sense that those

with the highest lifetime incomes receive the highest monthly payments. Another

$47 billion was spent on the two most generous pension systems in America:

civil-service and military retirement programs. Among the beneficiaries of

these programs poverty is practically unheard of; most are not "retired" at all

but working at another job and earning a second pension. The average annual

income for a federal pensioner is now more than $35,000. Still another $26

billion went to agricultural subsidies. Though this is equivalent to about

$18,000 per person working in agriculture, it doesn't help many farm workers.

Instead it goes primarily to the owners of the farms with the largest sales,

and to banks to service farm debt. Finally, about $43 billion was spent on

assorted other non-means-tested programs, such as veterans' health care (going

mostly to elderly people with higher-than-average incomes and without

service-related illnesses). Unemployment compensation, amounting to less than

$18 billion, almost gets lost in this sea of money.<p>



<p>



<p>



Many of these programs, and especially Social Security, provide invaluable

income support to millions of people who would be in poverty without them. This

is true especially for members of what Stephen Crystal, in America's Old Age

crisis, calls the "multiple jeopardy" groups--those who can be characterized in

two or more of these ways: over seventy-five (a group expected to grow by more

than 50 percent by the year 2000), widowed, single, divorced, in poor health,

without a private pension, and nonwhite. For example, the mean income of the

black elderly was only 54 percent of the mean income of the white elderly in

1980. But these people are helped mainly by dint of the enormous sums of money

spent, not by virtue of any rational allocation scheme.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is also argued that federal retirement benefits "belong" to the

recipient--despite the consensus among experts that the benefits payback for

Social Security and Medicare is five to ten times greater than the actuarial

value of prior contributions; plainly put, even middle- and upper-income groups

get back vastly more than they put in (including interest and employers'

contributions). As for civil-service retirement, we are told that it is a

genuine pension system, under which federal workers and federal agencies each

contribute seven percent of payroll to a "trust fund" in behalf of every

worker's retirement or disability. Yet the pension level is so high (averaging

56 percent of pre-retirement pay), the retirement age so young (age fifty-five

after thirty years of service), and the disability criteria so easy (one

quarter of all civil-service pensioners are "disabled") that every outside

actuary has found, here too, that benefits far exceed contributions. Most say

that recipients get somewhere between two and three extra dollars for every

dollar they contribute. Unlike any private pension, moreover, civil-service

pensions are 100 percent indexed to the Consumer Price Index--with the absurd

result that federal pensioners often outearn their successors in office.<p>



<p>



<p>



As for military retirement, here we confront the ultimate bonanza. The

serviceman contributes nothing to a trust fund, but upon reaching a median age

of forty-one (and completing at least twenty years of service), he is entitled

to 50 to 75 percent of pre-retirement pay, indexed yearly, for life. Typically,

military pensioners--including many of the most valuable members of our Armed

Forces, who are induced to quit by the retirement bonanza--spend more years

collecting benefits than they ever spend in the service. Only one quarter are

over age sixty-five, all are eligible for Social Security, and most pursue

second careers to achieve a "triple-dip" private pension.<p>



<p>



<p>



The Administration and Congress have often boasted of "cutting back" on

excessive benefit spending. Unfortunately, nearly all the painful and

high-visibility cuts have been made in the 15 percent of all benefit programs

that are means-tested. One result is that means-tested benefits have hardly

grown at all as a share of GNP during the 1980s (in fact, excluding Medicaid,

they have actually shrunk; hardly any poverty cash benefits are indexed).

Another result is that such benefits target the poor even better now than they

did in the 1970s, since most of the cuts have effectively excluded many

near-poor beneficiaries, those whom we do not consider truly needy. Meanwhile,

the tremendous non-means-tested programs--protected by powerful middle-class

lobbies and automatic 100-percent-of-CPI indexing--have burgeoned.<p>



<p>



<p>



Over the past generation federal benefits have grown roughly twice as fast as

our economy. What is most ominous about the long-term trend in the cost of

non-means-tested benefits, however, is that these benefits will necessarily

continue to grow faster than our economy even if we do nothing explicit to

increase benefit levels. Just leaving the budget on "automatic pilot" will lead

to fiscal disaster. The forces guaranteeing this result are threefold: the

aging of America, the hyperinflation in health care, and the uncontrollability

of benefit indexing.<p>



<p>



<p>



The aging of America: Well over half (about 56 percent) of all federal benefits

now go to the 12 percent of our population who are age sixty-five and over. We

now direct, on average, about $9,500 a year in federal benefits to each elderly

American (largely consumption). In contrast, we direct less than $950 in

federal benefits, including aid to education, to each American child (largely

investment). In fact, total federal spending on net infrastructure investment

and non-defense R&amp;D, the benefits of which will last several generations,

amounted to only $357 per child in 1986. That's equivalent to the increase in

federal benefits per elderly person that now occurs every six months.<p>



<p>



<p>



But even if benefits per elderly person henceforth grow no faster than our

economy, we can be certain that the total cost burden will. By about the year

2015 the age composition of the entire United States will be the same as that

of Florida today. By 2040 there may be more Americans over age eighty than

there are Americans today over age sixty-five. Over the next fifty years,

depending on future fertility and longevity, our working-age population will

grow by two to 18 percent, while our elderly population will grow by 139 to 165

percent.<p>



<p>



The more "pessimistic" projection (to use the strange term applied by the

Social Security Administration to the projection involving longer life-spans)

implies that our labor force will grow by only six million people while our

elderly population will grow by 46 million. Today each retired Social Security

beneficiary is supported by the payroll taxes of 3.3 workers. By the year 2020

the ratio will have declined to at most 1:2.3. The official pessimistic picture

shows the cost of all FICA-funded Social Security benefits rising to an

obviously unacceptable 36 percent of every worker's taxable pay by 2040, from

13 percent today.<p>



<p>



<p>



Health-care hyperinflation: The novel cost-saving reforms introduced four years

ago to Medicare and Medicaid (such as the new prospective pricing now used by

Hospital Insurance) stirred widespread hope that we had turned the corner on

the rapid growth of health-care spending. Today such hope has faded. Although

total U.S. health-care spending as a share of GNP fell slightly in 1984 (from

10.5 percent to 10.3 percent), it rose anew, to an unprecedented 10.7 percent,

in 1985, and further, to 10.9 percent, last year. We already know that the rate

of inflation for medical care was 7.9 percent in 1986, a rate about seven times

higher than the rise in the Consumer Price Index. Optimistic projections made

by federal health officials just two years ago are already in shreds. As the

Health Care Financing Administration admitted in its report last year, "Little

relief appears to be in sight....The decline in the share of GNP going to

health in 1984 appears to be a one-time blip in the historic trend rather than

the start of a new trend." Healthcare benefits as a share of the federal

budget, meanwhile, did not experience even a one-year dip. They have risen

every year of the 1980s and now amount to about $120 billion annually, or 25

percent of all federal benefit spending.<p>



<p>



<p>



The underlying causes of America's health-care cost explosion have been

discussed at length elsewhere: the rapid climb in real technological and labor

costs per treatment, the impressive increase in the number of treatable acute

and chronic illnesses, and, of course, the stubborn persistence, in both the

public and private sectors, of inefficient health-care regulations and

perverse, cost-plus reimbursement systems that insulate both health-care

professionals and patients from the cost of treatment.<p>



<p>



<p>



Amazingly--even with the federal reforms enacted in this decade--Medicare has

shown nearly the same real rate of annual growth in the 1980s (8.7 percent from

1979 to 1986) as it did in the 1970s (8.7 percent from 1969 to 1979). As

recently as 1975 Medicare's total cost was only $14 billion. Last year it was

$74 billion, and it may well hit $100 billion by 1990. By 1991 outlays for

Hospital Insurance, which account for two thirds of Medicare benefits, may

already start to exceed payroll-tax revenue. Thus, without further reform the

Hospital Insurance trust fund will almost certainly go bankrupt by the end of

the 1990s.<p>



<p>



<p>



Why have the reforms thus far proved ineffective? A large part of the problem

is that per capita health-care costs are rising much faster for the elderly

than for the population as a whole. Longer life expectancy means

disproportionate growth in the oldest age groups, and it is well documented

that every measure of health-care utilization rises steeply from age sixty-five

on. In 1982, for instance, the average reimbursed hospital cost for Medicare

enrollees over age eighty-five was two thirds higher than that for enrollees

aged sixty-five to seventy-five. The average per capita cost of long-term care

is ten times higher for the "old" elderly than for the "young" elderly, and the

high cost of long-term nursing care for the elderly, which is not covered by

Medicare, is steadily encroaching on means-tested public benefits not primarily

designed for the elderly. In 1984, for instance, though the elderly made up

only 10 percent of Medicaid's beneficiaries, they accounted for nearly one

third of Medicaid's total spending.<p>



<p>



<p>



Experts at the Health Care Financing Administration now project that

health-care spending in the United States will hit 15 percent of GNP by the

year 2000. Do we really think we can become competitive in trade while

allocating a still larger proportion of our scarce supply of capital and

skilled labor to health-care consumption? According to Lee Iacocca, the

Chrysler Corporation pays more money to Blue Cross/Blue Shield every year than

it does to any other supplier. Sooner or later we must debate health-care

spending in terms of affordability. We must ask why, for instance, we continue

to devote so many resources to comforting us at the end of life (more than half

of an American's lifetime health-care costs are incurred after age sixty-five),

while we pay a Head Start teacher less than $10,000 annually to prepare us at

the beginning of life. Other industrial countries are facing such questions

with both common-sense humanity and a steady eye on the future. We alone are

not.<p>



<p>



<p>



Uncontrollable indexing: The history of the indexing of non-means-tested

benefits is one of the sorriest stories in federal policy-making. Perhaps the

most flagrant case in point was the egregious "double-indexing" of Social

Security cash benefits enacted in 1972, which essentially pushed up the

benefits for new retirees by two CPI indexes at once. This was a colossal error

that caused the average retiree benefit to grow far faster than either prices

or average wages during the mid-to-late 1970s. The error was apparent to nearly

every policy expert as soon as the legislation was passed. But though Congress

took only several weeks to debate and pass the 1972 Social Security amendments,

it required several years to correct the mistake. In the late 1960s only six

percent of all benefits were indexed; today 78 percent of all benefits are

indexed to one price index or another, including nearly every non-means-tested

cash benefit. The result, quite simply, has been to render outlays for benefits

uncontrollable by either Congress or the President.<p>



<p>



<p>



Most important, indexing makes it impossible for elected policy-makers to

reorder their spending priorities by gradually allowing real benefit levels in

some programs to fall behind inflation while committing new resources to new

problems. This perversity is highlighted by the names that we give to these two

types of spending ("discretionary" to outlays earmarked for national

investment, and "entitlements" to outlays earmarked for personal

consumption).<p>



<p>



<p>



Back in the early 1970s, when most federal benefit programs were first indexed,

none of these problems seemed to matter much. Back then, after all, real

federal spending, real GNP, and real wage levels were all still growing

rapidly. Today such problems obviously do matter. Facing the prospect of

declining or (at best) stagnant real consumption per worker over the next ten

or fifteen years as we do, it follows almost by definition that during many of

these years we will see prices rising faster than after-tax wages. Each year

this occurs, indexing will automatically cause benefit spending to grow faster

than wages are growing. The very nature of indexing will then pose genuine

questions of equity: to what extent should beneficiaries not in poverty be

"held harmless" from downward jolts in the standard of living that affect all

other Americans?<p>



<p>



<p>



To say that the fundamental forces driving up federally financed consumption

are aging, health-care inflation, and indexing is not, of course, to say that

there is any painless way to avoid them. They cannot be avoided, precisely

because all three forces are so closely connected to the shape of our

population, as well as our technology, expectations, and political culture. We

can, however, speculate on the consequences of trying to avoid them. Recently I

asked James Capra, an expert on the federal budget (an unequaled forecaster of

our current deficits), to make a forty-year projection of the federal

budget--given no change in defense or domestic policy and using the same

long-term economic and demographic assumptions that are used by the Social

Security Administration.<p>



<p>



<p>



The results? Using the official pessimistic assumptions, total non-means-tested

benefit spending--in the absence of any new benefit provisions--will rise by an

amazing 9.6 percent of GNP by 2025, as the retiring Baby Boom generation claims

its health-care and cash retirement benefits. By then the explosion in

Medicaid-funded nursing care will add another 1.2 percent of GNP. All told,

assuming that the totality of other federal costs grows no faster than our

economy, the total projected federal outlays for fiscal year 2025 will amount

to about 35.4 percent of GNP. Outlays for benefits will consume 22.3 percent of

GNP--a sum nearly equal to the entire federal budget today--and outlays for

Social Security and Medicare alone will consume more than 31 percent of

workers' taxable payroll. These incredible results are most certainly not

predictions; instead they are projections of the future of our present

policies. That these outcomes seem impossible is a virtual guarantee that they

will be just that. What they mean is that today's policies are unsustainable.

They will be radically changed. The only question is how--whether in a

political spasm or gradually allowing those affected to plan ways of coping.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



From Denial to Reconstruction<p>



<p>



We face a future of economic choices that are far less pleasant than any set of

choices we have confronted in living memory. What, concretely, will these

choices entail? Looking into the future is always a dangerous task, but here is

my attempt to sketch a sequence of future economic issues that will change our

lives. My sketch follows the probable chronological order--near-term,

medium-term, and long-term--in which reality will impose these issues on us.<p>



<p>



<p>



The near term (1988 to 1992). Over the near term (a period that already exceeds

the "long-term" time horizon of almost every legislator and executive

policy-maker) America's primary economic challenge will be to extricate itself

from growing foreign indebtedness without touching off a global crisis. The

single most important step toward a successful outcome will be for America to

generate steady, large, and predictable increases in its net national savings

rate over the next several years. This, in turn, cannot be accomplished without

steps to eliminate the federal-deficit drain on private savings. Fiscal balance

is thus the cornerstone of any plan to cut our trade deficit.<p>



<p>



<p>



So long as the U.S. demand for foreign savings remains insatiable, any attempt

to force-feed U.S. exports to foreigners in any one sector or to any one

country will simply be vitiated by a stronger dollar, which will tend to worsen

the U.S. trade balance in all other sectors or with all other countries. It's

like placing a few sandbags on top of an overflowing dam: you can change where

the water will spill over, but you can't change the fact that it will spill

over somewhere. If there is little action on the federal budget over the next

five years, therefore, the odds of a global crash landing will certainly

grow.<p>



<p>



<p>



As we have seen, a successful escape from our foreign-sector imbalance (barring

an improbable near-term leap in U.S. productivity growth) could be accompanied

by a decline in real consumption per U.S. worker. Over the next five years, in

other words, we must be prepared for a perceptible fall in real after-tax

employee compensation combined with a similar decline, or at best a stagnation,

in real government spending--both in benefit payments and in defense spending.

On the positive side, we can look forward to a rapid expansion in U.S.

manufacturing output and employment, a steady improvement in our trade balance,

and a steady decline in the rate of foreign-capital inflows (slowing, though

not stopping, the deterioration of the net U.S. investment position by 1992).

But, in order to avoid the crash scenarios, there is plenty that we must also

prepare for on the negative side: a further (though modest) decline in the

exchange rate of the dollar, considerable inflationary import-price pressure,

and a very tough assignment for the Federal Reserve Bank and its new chairman,

Alan Greenspan--finding an interest rate high enough to control inflation and

keep the dollar from collapsing, yet low enough to avoid a serious U.S.

recession. Most likely, the Fed will have to strike a balance between bad news

on both fronts: some accommodation to inflation (as import prices rise) and

some accommodation to higher interest rates (as foreign lenders get finicky).<p>



<p>



<p>



For most working Americans the coming decline in the growth of real household

consumption will probably be felt not in any marked change in dollar salary

raises but rather in the erosion of real dollar income caused by unavoidably

swifter inflation. Wages in manufacturing, exportable business services, and

energy will climb much more steeply than wages in other sectors--a trend

reversal from the early and middle 1980s which many Americans will welcome. The

indexing of federal benefits, meanwhile, will become a major political issue.

Not only will steady reductions in budget deficits be difficult to sustain

without a major reform of indexing, but 100 percent cost-of-living adjustments

for middle- and upper-class federal beneficiaries during years of declining

real income for most American workers will raise reform as a stark question of

equity. The cost-effectiveness of defense and foreign-aid spending will also

come under increasing scrutiny. Since we know full well that it will take a

heroic effort to find the resources for economic investment alone, it is

totally incredible that we could fund both our domestic obligations and our

current global military obligations. By the end of this decade, therefore, it

is likely that the United States will raise strategic "burden-sharing" as a

routine point of discussion in our economic summits with other industrialized

powers.<p>



<p>



<p>



The medium term (1992 to 2007): The fifteen years that follow our near-term

period promise to be a crossroads in our nation's future. As Americans enter

this era, five years from now, they may still be uncertain whether the United

States has successfully worked its way out of its foreign-sector imbalance.

Ironically it will probably be a signal of impending disaster if real

per-worker U.S. consumption is significantly higher in 1992 than it is today,

and it would almost certainly be a symptom of worsening global imbalance. Other

symptoms would include minimal reductions in our budget deficits and in our

credit inflows, further cuts in our net domestic investment, high interest

rates, and special ad hoc arrangements to keep our creditors happy--such as

yen-denominated Treasury bonds or de facto foreign veto power over U.S.

monetary policy. More likely, we will see a considerable dampening in real

per-worker consumption, and we will be worrying about (or trying to recover

from) a long recession characterized by stagnant global demand.<p>



<p>



<p>



But twenty years from now when young adults currently entering the work force

are approaching the peak of their careers and when the oldest Baby Boomers are

contemplating retirement, the foreign-imbalance problem will have been

resolved, one way or the other. By then we may have entered one of the

prolonged crash scenarios sketched earlier--the decline of the bumpy British

variety or the indefinite depression of the 1930s variety. If, on the other

hand, we have resolved the problem successfully, we can expect that our

current-account deficit will have declined steadily during the early 1990s and

will be turning into a modest surplus by the late 1990s. As that happens, the

focus of our policy debates will likely shift from the problem of reducing our

foreign borrowing to the challenge of raising our level of domestic investment.

Over the near term most of our extra savings must be focused on raising net

exports, which is our sole means of weaning ourselves away from foreign

creditors. Only later will we be able to concentrate on the more rewarding task

of reconstructing our future. Only after paying off our credit-card bills, so

to speak, can we think of buying a new home.<p>



<p>



The long term (2007 on): Should America not make investment its number-one

policy priority in the medium term, it will surely have to pay the price in the

long term. It will not be a price denominated solely in terms of labor

productivity, real wages, and global political influence. The price will also

include an utter lack of preparation for the most stunning demographic

transformation--from workers to dependents--in American history. In the fifteen

years between 2010 and 2025 the number of Americans who are of working age will

decline by perhaps as many as 12 million (from 174 million to 162 million).

Meanwhile, assuming that current longevity trends persist, the population of

elderly will grow from 42 million to 65 million. If investment, retirement, and

health care for the elderly seem unaffordable to our society today and for the

next twenty years, when a "boom" generation is working and a "bust" generation

is retiring, we can only imagine how unaffordable they will be thirty years

from now, when the situation is reversed.<p>



<p>



<p>



If in the medium term the Baby Boom has channeled a sufficient share of its

income into education, training, tools, and infrastructure to permit a quantum

leap in productivity by the next generation of workers, it may enjoy a

prosperous and contented old age. But if the flow of invested endowments from

each generation to the next has ceased--and if each generation instead insists

on its "right" to consume all its own product and part of the next generation's

as well--then we can count on a meager and strife-torn future.<p>



<p>



<p>



In any summary discussion of America's prospects in the near, the medium, and

the long term, there is one theme that must be emphasized above all others: the

indissoluble bond between the economic behavior of one decade or generation and

the economic well-being of the next decade or generation. Over the near term we

must accept the punishment we are inheriting from the ill-fated gamble of

Reaganomics. Similarly, over the medium term we must overcome the

low-investment heritage we have received from thirty years of postwar

preoccupation with "demand management." Both tasks will require a determined

effort to save. We will have to raise our net national savings rate, now

somewhere between two and three percent of GNP, to between six and seven

percent of GNP in the coming five years (a level still beneath our level in the

1970s) and to between 10 and 12 percent of GNP within twenty years (a level far

beneath that of Japan's, but just about on par with the average for today's

industrial countries). By the first decade of the twenty-first century, in

other words, we will have to be rechanneling yearly into investment some $450

billion that we now spend on private and public consumption.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



This broad prescription has implications not only for action but also for

understanding. The question is not the easy and popular one of where to invest

but the brute one, ignored by both political parties, of where to find the

resources. Thus, in the coming election year we need to apply a critical

yardstick to the policy proposals of the presidential candidates: Does this

proposal face up to the long-term problems caused by our neglect of investment

in favor of consumption?<p>



<p>



<p>



Our problems are not, at bottom, economic. We are stymied by our lack of

political consensus on economic policy--something unimaginable to our Japanese

and German trading partners, for whom national consensus (born of national

crisis) informs decisions on savings, investment, productivity-related wage

increases, exports, and money-supply growth.<p>



<p>



<p>



With the proviso that we must put a very large question mark over the capacity

of our political system to deal with the nation's economic problems, I offer

these brief policy suggestions.<p>



<p>



<p>



First, we must tame the federal budget deficit. Real defense spending has been

effectively frozen for the past couple of years, and we may be at a crossroads

in foreign policy which will allow us to make substantial future savings in

security expenditures. Greater sharing of the burden by our NATO allies is

clearly on the horizon; it should proceed proactively, not reactively (that is,

not simply in response to one financial crisis or another). I believe the time

is also right for a historic arms treaty with General Secretary Mikhail

Gorbachev, whose nation's resources are far more severely constrained than ours

and who desperately needs breathing space. The deal I envision would cover the

more costly and, when one considers the size of the Soviet tank armies, more

plausibly threatening conventional forces, as well as strategic weapons. A new

international division of labor remains to be worked out with Japan. The

agreement that I think is needed would have Japan provide, for example, far

more World Bank support, aid not tied to its exports, and more incentives for

major capital flows to Third World countries; further, it would forge a

U.S.-Japan strategic-economic partnership in areas of the world critical to

both countries--Latin America, say. In turn, the United States would continue

to provide military assistance to Japan. Finally, the newly industrializing

countries can no longer simply be beneficiaries of an open world economy. They

must now join the club of the industrial countries and pay their dues,

including aid to the poorer countries.<p>



<p>



<p>



As for domestic spending, we must above all slow the growth in non-means-tested

entitlements, starting with a reform of benefit indexing. Cutting the

non-poverty-benefit cost-of-living adjustment, or COLA, to 60 percent of the

CPI (a "diet COLA"), for instance, would save about $150 billion in federal

outlays annually by the year 2000. Gradually raising the retirement age and

lowering initial benefits to the relatively well off (for example, those with

histories of high wages) should be combined with the taxation of all benefits

in excess of contributions, which could save well over $50 billion annually by

the year 2000. Note that under this proposal the progressivity of the tax

system would leave intact benefits that go to the poor. There are those who

protest the "humiliation" of the means test; however, these reforms go far

toward honoring the principle of need, doing so implicitly rather than

explicitly.<p>



<p>



<p>



We should also take a more serious look not simply at the unfunded liabilities

of our federal retirement programs but at all the various elements of a

grievously costly fringe-benefit pension program. Civil-service and military

retirement programs should be made part of a total compensation package

comparable to those in the private sector. They should gradually be made

self-supporting (that is, funded as our corporate pension plans are), through a

combination of benefit reductions (with special emphasis on lower initial

benefits and later retirement, as well, of course, as reductions in COLA

indexing) and higher contribution rates. <p>



<p>



<p>



Second, we must act decisively to put a lid on America's excessive and wasteful

consumption of health care, three quarters of which is either funded directly

from public budgets or paid through publicly regulated insurance systems. This

is not the place to enter the thicket of specific health-care reforms, but we

must begin to experiment in earnest with various means by which to replace the

horrendous, indeed perverse, inefficiencies of the current "cost-plus" system

with the discipline of market forces (for example, greater cost-sharing, or the

use of medical vouchers).<p>



<p>



<p>



Third, to the extent that our federal deficits cannot be eliminated in the near

term by simply deciding to spend less, we must increase federal revenue. The

Reagan Administration has steadfastly opposed tax hikes by claiming that they

would permanently sanction an increased "tax burden." But surely the

alternative is worse: to sanction permanently an increased "debt burden." My

choice among revenue options is some form of consumption-based tax. A phased-in

tax on gasoline of twenty-five cents a gallon, for instance, would generate

about $25 billion a year by 1990--and also serve to depress world energy prices

and moderate the now-rapid rise in our oil trade deficit, without destroying

the global competitive position of critical export products such as

petrochemicals. A broad-based five-percent value-added tax on all products

would of course generate considerably more revenue--more than $100 billion in

1990, or enough to halve the federal deficit.<p>



<p>



Fourth, over the longer term we should encourage higher private-sector savings

rates by trading off increases in consumption-based taxes for reductions in

investment-based taxes. Our industrial competitors, after all, have already

adopted the principle that people should be taxed more according to what they

take out of the pot than according to what they put in. Most of those countries

do not tax corporate income twice; most of them do not tax interest, dividends,

and capital gains as ordinary income; and most of them do not allow sweeping

personal exemptions for home-mortgage interest, for employer-paid health care,

and for unearned public retirement benefits. At the same time, all our

industrial competitors have much higher household and corporate savings rates

than we do. It's time our policymakers put two and two together.<p>



<p>



<p>



The least productive enterprise Americans can engage in--though it is virtually

second nature--is trying to place the blame for what has happened to our

economy in the 1980s on one political party or ideology. Blame is beside the

point, for it is something we all share. To be sure, it is easy to find fault

with the conservative fiscal leadership of the current Administration. (Indeed,

I will confidently predict that in the years to come President Reagan will

lament his May, 1985, decision not to support his own party's leadership in its

effort to freeze entitlement COLAs. President Richard Nixon, after all, has

come to lament his decision to sign those COLAs into law.)<p>



<p>



<p>



But, clearly, the liberals and the Democrats are equally to blame. Long before

Reagan entered the White House, liberal opinion leaders persuaded the public to

regard the budget and the tax code as engines of free national consumption. It

was a Democratic Congress that argued in favor of deficit spending for so many

years that no one could recall (with only one budget surplus since 1960) the

rationale behind fiscal balance. And it was a Democratic President who

pioneered the art of disingenuous forecasts (when President Johnson signed the

Medicare Act, he said that an extra $500 million in federal spending would

present "no problem"; today Medicare costs 150 times more than estimated). The

very success that the Democrats enjoyed in promoting consumption, in fact,

persuaded Reagan's conservative backers to dish the Whigs and beat the

opposition at their own game.<p>



<p>



<p>



Reaganomics was founded on a bold new vision for America, yet today--another

irony--we hear every politician who is warming up for the 1988 campaign,

Republican and Democrat alike, complaining about the lack of vision in America.

The reason we feel adrift is that we are waking up to the fact that blind and

self-indulgent gusto is not vision at all but denial. True vision requires the

forging of a farsighted and realistic connection between our present and our

future. It means recognizing in today's choices the sacrifices all of us must

make for posterity. America's unfettered individualism has endowed our people

with enormous energy and great aspirations. It has not, however, given us

license to do anything we please so long as we do it with conviction. <p></blockquote>



<p><hr>

<blockquote>

Peter G. Peterson is the chairman of the Blackstone Group, a private investment bank. 

He is also a member of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New

York and co-founder of the  Concord Coalition,  a bipartisan economic policy group.

Earlier in his career Peterson served as the

U.S. Secretary of Commerce and as chairman and CEO of Lehman Brothers and Bell &amp; Howell.

</blockquote>

<hr>



<img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1987 by Peter G. Peterson.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-14</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B041-167</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/environ/green.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117194718 text/html 69563
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:46:36 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 16:56:54 GMT
Content-length: 69357
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

An Explosion of Green 

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>April 1995</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			An Explosion of Green

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Bill McKibben</font></center>

<p>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

<center>

<font size=2>[Also see the transcript of an <A 

HREF="../../../atlweb/aandc/trnscrpt/mckibben.htm">online conference</A> in 

which Bill McKibben discusses this article and comments on broader issues 

of environmentalism.]</font></center><p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





							<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

 

<blockquote>





<i><font size=4>The reforestation of the eastern United States--thanks 

partly to conservationists and mostly to accident--can show the developing 

world how to make room for people, farming, industry, and endangered 

species of plants and animals, which have been returning.  We can give the 

rest of the world a better example if we address the problems that even 

this fortunate region still faces</i></font><p>

	



	

	<font size=5>O</font>N August 18, 1587, Virginia Dare became the first child born to English 

parents in the New World. Her birthplace--on Roanoke Island, in what is 

now North Carolina--was Britain's first attempt at colonizing this 

continent, and was the site of the first recorded British murder of an 

Indian chief. Though Dare's band of settlers did not survive intact, 

Roanoke Island was the beginning of the historical process in which 

English-speaking Europeans settled and subdued North America over the next 

four centuries.<P>

On September 14, 1987, 400 years later, a team of biologists from the U.S. 

Fish and Wildlife Service office on Roanoke Island opened the gate of a 

pen and released a pair of red wolves wearing radio collars into the 

Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge. The animals disappeared into the 

woods perhaps half an hour's drive from the spot where Dare was born. 

Their species was the first ever to go extinct in the North American wild 

and then be reintroduced into the natural world from a remnant population 

in zoos. They were, as surely as Dare, pioneers.<P>

The forces set in motion by European colonization had all but erased red 

wolves from the continent: settlers made wolves a symbol of the devil, 

placed bounties on their heads, organized state and federal predator

control programs, and farmed and developed their last few strongholds. The 

Roanoke Island biologists have watched and listened for the past eight 

years as the animals they released have reproduced and spread across the 

refuge's swampy, mosquito-infested 150,000 acres. As of this winter the 

biologists had counted sixty-one wild-born puppies. One wild-born female 

had borne four litters, and one of her pups had in turn given birth; a 

third generation of wild red wolves was howling in the night.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>BACK TO NATURE</B><P>



<font size=5>F</font>IVE hundred miles to the north, from his home on Nantucket, Peter 

Dunwiddie, a plant ecologist, studies core samples of swamps and bogs, 

looking at pollen under a microscope to figure out what was growing on 

Cape Cod and the neighboring Atlantic islands in the time before and after 

the Pilgrims debarked in nearby Plymouth. It's easy to spot the onset of 

European settlement in his pollen samples. "Literally in a matter of 

decades," he told me recently, "the forest was cleared. There's no more 

oak pollen, and all of a sudden lots of grass pollen. That persisted 

throughout much of the following couple of hundred years," as Europeans 

turned most of the area into a giant sheep pasture.<P>

In the late 1800s, just as the agricultural economy was beginning to 

dwindle, local residents started taking photographs. In addition to his 

pollen samples, Dunwiddie has gathered a vast library of original pictures 

along with ones taken from the same places fifty or a hundred years later. 

"Here's Prospect Hill, on Martha's Vineyard, in 1916," he said to me, 

choosing one in which a stone wall marched up and over the top of a hill. 

"There's not a tree to be seen. The retake of the photo today is entirely 

of an oak forest--a mature oak forest. You can't see the stone wall; you 

can barely make out the contours of the hill at all, because of the 

forest."<P>

The scenario--oak and pitch pine replace pasture--has repeated itself all 

over the area. "Sometimes we had to use a ladder and a pole to get the 

camera above the treetops just to take a picture," Dunwiddie said. In his 

bog cores "the pollen is beginning to resemble the pre-European." Coyotes, 

which in the 1970s crossed the Cape Cod canal and established themselves 

on the Cape, have recently managed the ocean crossing to the remote 

Elizabeth Islands. "They've very quickly decimated the feral sheep that 

were left out there," Dunwiddie said. "They're taking quite a toll on the 

deer population. The deer and the sheep had been browsing down the 

seedlings; there's likely to be a really dramatic spurt of growth."<P>

<BR>



<font size=5>I</font>MAGINE the view from a satellite, Alan Durning writes in the 1994 edition 

of the Worldwatch Institute's <I>State of the World</I> report. A time-lapse film 

that showed you a thousand years each minute would reveal only the 

slightest changes in the earth's forests, which for millennium after 

millennium covered about a third of the planet's land surface. But in the 

film's last three seconds, he says--the years after 1950--the change 

"accelerates explosively."<P>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

Vast tracts of forest vanish from Japan, the Philippines, and the 

mainland of Southeast Asia, from most of Central America and the horn of 

Africa, from western North America and eastern South America, from the 

Indian subcontinent and sub-Saharan Africa. . . . Southeast Asia resembles 

a dog with the mange. Malaysian Borneo is scalped. In the final fractions 

of a second, the clearing spreads to Siberia and the Canadian north. 

Forests disappear so suddenly from so many places that it looks like a 

plague of locusts has descended on the planet.<P>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





If you stared from space at eastern North America in the same three 

seconds, however, you'd see something different: a patch of green 

spreading like mold across bread, and spreading fast. In the early 

nineteenth century the cleric Timothy Dwight reported that the 240-mile 

journey from Boston to New York City passed through no more than twenty 

miles of forest. Surveying the changes wrought by farmers and loggers in 

New Hampshire, he wrote, "The forests are not only cut down, but there 

appears little reason to hope that they will ever grow again."<P>

Less than two centuries later, despite great increases in the state's 

population, 90 percent of New Hampshire is covered by forest. Vermont was 

35 percent woods in 1850 and is 80 percent today, and even Massachusetts, 

Connecticut, and Rhode Island have seen woodlands rebound to the point 

where they cover nearly three fifths of southern New England. This 

process, which began as farmers abandoned the cold and rocky pastures of 

the East for the fertile fields of the Midwest, has not yet run its 

course. Forest cover in New York State, for instance, continued to grow by 

more than a million acres a decade through 1980. In sum, writes Douglas 

MacCleery, of the U.S. Forest Service, "the forest and farmland landscape 

of the Appalachians, as well as many other parts of the East and South, 

has come full circle. By the 1960s and 1970s, the pattern of forest, 

fields, and pastures was similar to that prior to 1800, its appearance 

much like it must have been prior to the American Revolution."<P>

This unintentional and mostly unnoticed renewal of the rural and 

mountainous East--not the spotted owl, not the salvation of Alaska's 

pristine ranges--represents the great environmental story of the United 

States, and in some ways of the whole world. Here, where "suburb" and 

"megalopolis" were added to the world's vocabulary, an explosion of green 

is under way, one that could offer hope to much of the rest of the planet. 

The forests, as a recent federal study pointed out, will still take 

centuries of care before they recover their original grandeur. And 

backsliding is always a danger; the regreening of the East faces many 

threats. But it is undeniably real. In his journal Thoreau listed the 

species gone from Concord by the middle of the nineteenth century: bear, 

moose, deer, porcupine, "'rav'nous howling Wolf,'" and beaver. In 1989 

environmental police had to kill a moose that had decided to make its home 

on the median strip of Route 128, famous as "America's Technology 

Highway." "We've never been faced with a moose ten miles from Boston," 

said one game warden, who donated the animal's carcass to a Salvation Army 

soup kitchen.<P>

American heads turn west when the subject of nature comes up. I have 

before me the Sierra Club engagement calendar for 1995, with fifty-eight 

gorgeous pictures, most of them sweeping western vistas. Precisely two 

come from the thousand-mile sweep of the Appalachians--a patch of orchids 

in Tennessee and a picture from Maine titled, accurately, "Leaf in 

Stream." We are raised on what the writer Jose Knighton calls "eco-porn"-

sunset-tinted photos of the Grand Tetons and other swelling bosoms of the 

West. But we might take as our emblem the pine: not towering white pines, 

marked by the first lumbermen in North America with a "King's Arrow" to 

reserve them for the Royal Navy, but the spindly pine that springs up when 

cows leave a pasture, the pine that begins the long process of 

reclamation. From the Pisgahs, the Unakas, and the Nantahalas of the 

southern Appalachians to the Whites and Greens and Adirondacks of the 

North, the woods are coming back, and people are starting to notice. In 

the late 1980s Congress called for a study on how to protect the 26 

million acres of forest in New York, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Maine 

--forest that in some cases wasn't there a hundred years ago. "Show me 

another twenty-six-million-acre chunk," says John Harrigan, a New 

Hampshire newspaper editor who sat on the study commission. "Outside of 

Seward's Folly, I don't think you can." Yellowstone Park, in contrast, 

covers 2.2 million acres.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>QUICK DEVASTATION, QUICK RECOVERY</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>HE story of this recovery begins long before Europeans arrived on these 

shores. It is worth remembering that no spot on the globe was originally 

more natural or wild than any other: if America had been settled west to 

east, we might think of the East Coast as the wild shore, and our 

calendars might concentrate on Chesapeake Bay and the Everglades. Over 

time the mountains of the East have risen to heights we would consider 

western, been eroded, and risen again. The rock on Grandfather Mountain, 

rising 4,000 feet above the Piedmont Plain in western North Carolina, is 

more than a billion years old, among the oldest on the planet. Along the 

Blue Ridge and its surrounding highlands neither glacier nor ocean has 

covered the land for hundreds of millions of years; the result is a rare 

biological refuge that preserves much of the story of evolution. Plants 

could travel slowly north and south along the ridges of the Appalachians 

as climates changed, escaping extinction. Thus the Smokies boast more than 

1,300 flowering plants and a hundred types of trees. Arguably, the 

southern Appalachians form the most diverse temperate forest in the 

world.<P>

Farther north the landscape was a mile deep in glacial ice until 

comparatively recently--perhaps 11,000 years ago. On the glaciers' retreat 

the rock and till were colonized by fungi and lichens that eventually 

converted the rock to soil. The soil provided a home for forests that were 

spreading northward, but the North has never been especially hospitable. 

Though cold fronts from Canada and warm air from the Midwest and the Gulf 

bring abundant precipitation, the soils are not deep. Often acidic and 

fragile, they make agriculture difficult; the short growing seasons have 

favored spruce-fir forests in the colder places and a mixture of maple, 

beech, and birch in slightly warmer sections. Nonetheless, about three 

quarters of America's original forests were found in the eastern third of 

the nation, and today about three quarters of the nation's forests are in 

the East.<P>

Very little of the forest is virgin, of course. Most of it is haunted by 

the human history that brings time into being--a history that long 

pre-dates Columbus. Paleo-Indians moved into the northern forest not long 

after the glaciers receded. Scientists continue to debate whether their 

arrival caused the sudden dying-off of megafauna--mammoths and mastodons, 

armadillos and ground sloths, giant beavers, dire wolves, and saber

toothed tigers--that once roamed the East. There is no question, however, 

that over thousands of years Indians rearranged the landscape to suit 

their needs. "It is tempting to believe that when the Europeans arrived in 

the New World they confronted Virgin Lands, the Forest Primeval, a 

wilderness which had existed for eons uninfluenced by human hands," 

William Cronon writes in his masterly account of New England's early 

history, <I>Changes in the Land</I>. "Nothing could be further from the truth." 

Indians cleared land for agriculture and burnt some forests once or twice 

a year, keeping them open and parklike.<P>

The Indian disruptions, though extensive, were usually temporary. When 

Indians had used one area for a time, they often moved to another. Not so 

Europeans. Early logging was bad enough, but farmers cut down <I>every</I> tree 

as they cleared pasture, and then brought in grazing animals that ate the 

native grasses down to dirt. New plant species arrived in shipboard 

fodder: mulleins and mallows, for instance, and nightshades, stinging 

nettles, and dandelions. Other agricultural techniques left their own 

devastation. Instead of rotating crops, farmers planted corn year after 

year, and corn quickly exhausts soil. Colonial farmers often used fish as 

fertilizer--at the end of the eighteenth century, Cronon writes, a dollar 

could buy a thousand fish.<P>

This was merely a warm-up, however, for the destruction in the first 

century of the new republic. From 1780 to 1850 the population of the 

United States grew nearly eightfold, from nearly three million to about 23 

million. It took about three acres of cropland to feed each person. For a 

while the trees that farmers cleared for fields met the nation's demand 

for timber, but in the second half of the nineteenth century lumber 

consumption rose from 5.4 billion to 44.5 billion board feet a year.<P>

Wood was used for <I>everything</I>--it was the cornerstone of the economy in the 

same way that petroleum is today. What iron existed was smelted using wood 

charcoal; to produce a thousand tons of iron a year, a furnace needed 

20,000 or 30,000 acres of forest, MacCleery writes. A square forty

acre field required 8,000 fence rails. In the latter half of the 

nineteenth century, when barbed wire began to replace wood, there were 

more than three million miles of wooden fence in America. Railroads soon 

claimed the wood freed up by wire fencing; at the turn of the century the 

demand for railroad cars, ties, fuel, bridges, trestles, stations, and 

telegraph poles was taking a quarter of the nation's timber production. 

Steamboats burned wood for fuel until the Civil War, consuming a fifth of 

all the wood sold for fuel in 1840. In the second half of the nineteenth 

century forest cover in many areas of the East had fallen from 70 percent 

to 25 percent or less. Eventually the profligate cutting left lumbermen 

little choice but to move west: there were few mature forests left to 

take. Loggers moved from New England to New York, Pennsylvania, the Great 

Lakes, and the South.<P>

Something similar was happening in agriculture. Even for those lands that 

had not been exhausted by poor farming, improved transportation to the 

fertile soils of the Midwest meant insurmountable competition. The opening 

of the Erie Canal, in 1835, is as good a starting point as any. In the 

decades that followed, the Northeast stopped concentrating on supplying 

raw materials and began the long transition to an economy based on 

manufacturing and services. For example, the first Merino sheep arrived 

near Mount Ascutney, Vermont, in 1809. By 1840 there were 1,681,000 sheep 

in the state, or six per person. Thirty years later the number had been 

cut in half: the reasons include that western ranches could now ship their 

wool by rail and undercut Vermonters. The dairy industry has survived, 

milk being harder to transport great distances, but it, too, has long been 

in decline.<P>

By 1890, 42 percent of the people who had been born in Vermont lived 

elsewhere. It was a Vermont native, Horace Greeley, who said "Go West, 

young man"; among those who lit out was another, John Deere, whose 

machinery would transform the plains. According to the author Ben Bachman, 

Vermont has produced thirty-five U.S. senators, 114 congressmen, and sixty 

governors who have served in other states. "Vermont recovered because the 

destruction was a one-shot destruction," says Steve Trombulak, a biologist 

at Middlebury College. "It was cleared, pastured for maybe twenty or 

thirty years, and then everyone discovered Ohio. I don't believe for a 

moment that Vermont would look like this if it weren't for the Louisiana 

Purchase--if we hadn't found places where you didn't break your plough on 

the stones."<P>

If the nineteenth century was an epoch of destruction for the northern 

forest, the twentieth century has been a long sleep. If you walk in almost 

any woods in the East, you can see the recovery process up close--see the 

cellar holes that sprout birch, the careful piles of stone now covered by 

moss and surrounded by forest. From the window in the room where I type 

these words, I can see the crumbling stone dam that powered the small 

Adirondack sawmill that once skimmed the trees from all the surrounding 

ridges. Trees gone; sawmill gone. Sawmill gone; trees return.<P>

For me the proof that what is happening is significant--and right and 

necessary--lies in the recovery not only of the forests themselves but of 

much of the life they always supported. As early as 1672 wild turkeys were 

described as rare in Massachusetts. Beaver were disappearing from the 

Massachusetts coast as early as 1640 and from the Narragansett region by 

1660, as Indians and others filled the demands of the fur-trading posts, 

moving farther up the rivers in search of fresh supplies. Massachusetts 

had its first closed season on deer in 1694; eventually deer were 

eliminated from Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and all but the 

northern fringes of the Great Lakes states. In <I>Changes in the Land</I>, Cronon 

quotes the nineteenth-century cleric Timothy Dwight: "Hunting with us 

exists chiefly in the tales of other times."<P>

But just as the last animals were vanishing, organized sportsmen's groups, 

led by Theodore Roosevelt and others, banded together to oppose market 

hunting, enact game laws, and establish refuges and reserves. Their 

efforts meshed with the slow return of habitat, and animal populations 

boomed. Whitetail deer now number more than 18 million--perhaps half as 

many as were in the original herd, but forty times as many as existed in 

the late 1800s. Pennsylvania motorists alone killed 43,000 deer in 1990; 

deer browse so much suburban shrubbery that some homeowners call them 

"rats with hooves."<P>

Perhaps 40,000 black bears roam the East. Alligators, placed on the 

endangered-species list in 1967, after hunting had nearly wiped them out, 

rebounded within ten years to a population of two million. In 1972, thirty

seven wild turkeys were introduced into western Massachusetts--where the 

species had long since vanished. By now the population exceeds 10,000.<P>

As game has spread, so have predators. Even in heavily settled 

Massachusetts, coyotes--not seen until the 1930s--now live in virtually 

every town. Larger predators, too, may be appearing. In rural uplands 

throughout the East the part of the imagination that elsewhere is reserved 

for Elvis sightings is given over to stories about cougars, panthers, 

pumas, mountain lions, and catamounts--all names for the same long-tailed 

wild cat. Officially there aren't any. As the final clearing of the region 

took place, in the nineteenth century, and as the deer herds that were 

their prey vanished, cougars were wiped out across the East.<P>

The Eastern Puma Research Network, however, has received reports of 1,800 

puma sightings in the past decade. During hunting season in 1993, for 

instance, a Maine hunter heard a sound "like a woman screaming in pain." 

Topping a rise, he saw a large tawny animal shaking something in its 

mouth. The animal turned toward him, and he saw a "big angry head-

about the size of an average human head." It snarled, dropped its prey, 

and disappeared in "three tremendous long leaps." The hunter collected the 

carcass of the prey, which turned out to be a bobcat--a smaller feline 

that is common in the northern forest. Biologists said that the bite and 

claw marks on the bobcat were the right size for a cougar. The sightings 

increase each year; the wildness seems to gather. Last fall Vermont 

wildlife officials confirmed that they had found scat from at least one 

mountain lion.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>RECOVERY AND RUINATION</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>HIS recovery was not automatic. It is an accident of climate, soil, and 

economics. Recovery has not come to the Midwest, because the soils there 

continue to be valuable for industrial agriculture. Recovery has not come 

to the entire East, either--some places are still logged as brutally as 

the Pacific Northwest. And even where recovery has progressed farthest, it 

will not necessarily be permanent. Stand on top of North Carolina's Mount 

Mitchell, at 6,684 feet the tallest mountain in the East (in 1835, when it 

was measured, it was the highest point in the then United States), and you 

see the twin vistas of recovery and ruination. Clear-cut logging had 

spread within half a mile of the summit before it was finally halted, in 

1915. Now the forest is protected by the Blue Ridge Parkway and the city 

of Asheville's watershed, and so the spruce and fir have grown anew on its 

slopes. Near the top, however, low-level ozone and acid rain have left a 

dying and skeletal forest, its branches bony and silver. From the 

observation deck, signs tell you, you can see "Slick Rock Mountain, a 

residential and resort development. The flattened, barren area is the end 

of an airport runway." You can see the scars of feldspar mines that 

produce much of the world's high-purity quartz for use in making computer 

chips, halogen lights, and semiconductors. And you can see the effects of 

the burning of coal and oil to power all those chips and lights--a 

semipermanent brown layer of haze that obstructs the view to the 

distance.<P>

Though the basic physical trends in the East may be toward restoration, 

increasingly these are running up against renewed human assaults. To use a 

regionally appropriate metaphor, the East is like a young sapling 

sprouting from the stump of an old chestnut that was killed off by a 

deadly fungus in the early twentieth century. It looks healthy, it seems 

full of vigor--but it isn't going to get much bigger before it, too, 

succumbs to blight.<P>

Some of the blight is literal. Global trade, which is ever-increasing, 

introduces new plant diseases through transported nursery stock, packing 

materials, and timber imports. A devastating beech-bark blight is ravaging 

trees in the Northeast, while hemlocks across the region are succumbing to 

a menacing insect, the woolly adelgid. Still, blights move slowly, at 

least by comparison with a feller-buncher--a machine equipped with a 

grappling arm that grabs a tree by the trunk and a buzz saw that slices it 

off near the ground. The machine symbolizes the industrial forestry that 

dominates the southern and northern extremities of the region.<P>

Precious little prime eastern land, even that owned by the federal 

government, is protected from clear-cutting and other devastating 

"management" techniques. The damage is not new. Steve Trombulak, the 

biologist at Middlebury, talks of the many plant and animal species that 

have gone extinct in the Northeast, in part because they depended on old

growth forest that vanished long ago. Whatever the eastern equivalents of 

spotted owls were, we lost them two centuries ago. "And of course we'll 

never know about soil microbes, things like that," Trombulak says. And the 

losses are not confined to the past. David Cameron Duffy, who has studied 

wildflowers in the southern Appalachians, reported recently that even 

ninety years after the forests were last cut, many species have not 

returned. The smaller, denser stands of trees that mark a recovering 

forest mean changes in soil conditions, temperature, and water 

availability. Beyond mere species, a recovering forest lacks the richness 

of <I>interactions</I> found in an ancient forest--the relationships between 

species big and small which are at the heart of any forest.<P>

For example, a recent study of national forests in western North Carolina 

found that catches of salamanders were five times as high in mature stands 

as in forests clear-cut less than ten years ago. Because they need to keep 

their skin wet to breathe, salamanders generally seek moist microhabitats. 

A clear-cut, which leaves an unshaded field, dehydrates the forest floor, 

reduces leaf litter, and increases soil temperature. All in all, says 

James Petranka, an expert on amphibians at the University of North 

Carolina, clear-cutting is killing about 14 million salamanders annually 

and "chronically reducing regional populations." When the clear-cut woods 

come back, they are no longer what we think of as a forest but an "even

aged" stand, often composed predominantly of one species, and, in the 

words of a recent report from the Interior Department, "structurally and 

biologically less diverse than natural forests of any age."<P>

The coastal plain of the Southeast has perhaps been the most badly 

damaged--the great mature stands of longleaf pine have nearly vanished, 

replaced by faster-growing species in vast pulp plantations. The same 

attack of industrial forestry has afflicted the Maine woods in recent 

years. The ten million acres of the core Maine forest--the largest green 

blob on the map of the East--houses virtually no permanent inhabitants. 

Loggers go there, and so do some hunters and fishermen who pay the usage 

fees required by the enormous timber and paper companies that own almost 

the whole spread. People routinely mistake the emptiness for wildness, but 

in fact the Maine woods produce huge quantities of pulp for paper, and 

export large quantities of raw logs. The cutting has been most Bunyanesque 

in the past fifteen years; as companies scrambled to salvage timber that 

was threatened by an infestation of spruce budworm, huge clear-cuts spread 

across the region.<P>

The damage inflicted on the woods by cutting at such a rate is a sight to 

behold. You can behold it only if you happen to be in a small plane, 

though, which allows you to peek over the "beauty strips" that protect 

watercourses from runoff and also shield the view of what can look like 

vast deserts. Rudy Engholm, the New England director of the Environmental 

Air Force, a group of ecologically minded private pilots, picked me and a 

couple of environmentalists up at a small airport in northern New 

Hampshire last summer. We flew across Lake Umbagog and into Maine, flying 

for hours over land that knows no human settlement and yet is devastated 

in ways inconceivable in many more-densely settled parts of the Northeast. 

We could see the occasional moose standing on a logging road, but mostly 

the view was of clear-cuts--tracts sometimes thousands of acres in size on 

which almost every tree was gone. Other spots had been spared 

clear-cutting but had been "high-graded" so relentlessly, with every big 

tree removed, that the land looked as if it had mange. Many huge patches 

had been sprayed from the air with herbicides to keep down "undesirable" 

hardwoods and produce more fir and spruce, which are the woods easiest to 

use for paper; in the middle of summer the leaves of the dying trees were 

awash with the colors of autumn. The Allagash Wilderness Waterway was 

instantly recognizable along much of its length by the line of trees a few 

hundred feet wide that ran along each side of it. From a canoe in the 

river you would think you were in the wilderness, but if you walked a 

quarter mile to pee you might find yourself staring out across a plain 

nearly devoid of life. In recent years new legislation has limited the 

size of clear-cuts. In some cases this has led to more partial cutting; in 

other spots strange geometric figures are now cut from the forest--huge 

assemblages of clear-cuts separated by narrow "wildlife corridors" that 

may lead nowhere.<P>

"That's the Ragmuff area," Michael Kellett, the director of the small 

environmental group RESTORE, said as we flew over one particularly barren 

clearing. "Thoreau wrote about it. It looks like it could be Kansas now--a 

few little clumps of trees and then vast fields." Engholm, who frequently 

takes passengers up to let them see the damage firsthand, told me, "Almost 

universally, they are just aghast. It's not any one cut in 

particular--it's that they just go on and on and on. There's virtually no 

place in Maine where from a couple of thousand feet up you don't see a 

manipulated forest." With the old trees gone, the loggers quickly return 

for the young ones. Log trucks in Maine today carry eighty or a hundred 

skinny trunks in one load, where once only a score would have fit.<P>

In the eighties the cutting of the Maine woods, according to Kellett, 

proceeded faster, relative to the woods' size, than the clearing of the 

rain forests of South America. According to data supplied by landowners to 

the Maine Forest Service, nearly 2,000 square miles--as much land as in 

all of Delaware--were clear-cut from 1980 to 1992, and thousands of miles 

of roads have been cut since the river drives ended, in the late 1960s and 

early 1970s. From the air we clocked log-truck drivers, some of whom are 

paid piecework rates rather than salaries, topping 90 mph on the gravel 

roads, their roostertails of dust visible twenty miles away.<P>

A few days after the flight I visited Mitch Lansky, a Maine woods resident 

who began to investigate the forest industry when, in 1976, he was sprayed 

with pesticides from three modified Second World War bombers while leaving 

for his job at a sawmill. He unrolled a huge photo for me on the floor of 

his cabin, near the town of Wytopitlock. "I want to show you what northern 

Maine looks like from outer space," he said. "This is a satellite photo 

from 1990, and these white blotches are six-mile-square townships. Just in 

this one little corner are a hundred and thirty square miles of 

clear-cut." Lansky took me for a drive around the area, where the 

clear-cuts stretch for miles. They are growing back heavy in poplar, which 

once made up less than three percent of the forest. "One other species 

does really well," he told me. "Raspberries."<P>

Paper companies and timber barons have mounted a large-scale public

relations campaign to persuade people not to trust the feeling in their 

gut that comes from looking at the ugly face of industrial forestry. 

"Trees are renewable resources" was the industry mantra for years, until 

the realization grew that what matters is not simply the number of trunks 

but the quality of the forest. Later, responding to cries for 

biodiversity, industry spokesmen argued that clear-cuts created more 

"edge" (places where woods meet open land), which is good for certain 

species of wildlife--white-tailed deer, for example.<P>

But it is plain that the forest the huge companies are creating with their 

management resembles a real Maine forest about as closely as "extruded 

seafood product" resembles lobster. Thoreau wrote, "The surface of the 

ground in the Maine woods is everywhere spongy and saturated with 

moisture. I noticed that the plants which cover the forest floor there are 

such as are commonly confined to swamps with us." Now, with sunlight 

streaming down on the clear-cuts, the forest can dry; in other areas, 

without roots to soak up the rain, the floor can turn to puddles. 

Whole-tree clear-cuts take everything--leaves and branches as well as 

trunk, and with them a higher percentage of the nutrients the tree had 

sucked from the soil. "The 'working forest,'" Kellett says, "the 

industry's current euphemism, is classic <I>Nineteen Eighty-Four</I> doublespeak. 

It sounds industrious, it sounds healthy, but it's a disaster. It's a 

factory."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>TWO ARMIES: LOGGERS AND DEVELOPERS</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>NDUSTRIAL forestry, for all the trauma it continues to inflict, has 

produced one great blessing: You can fly for hours over the Maine woods, 

or drive for days in the national forests farther south, and though you 

will see clear-cuts, gravel pits, and areas decimated by herbicides, you 

won't see any houses. You won't see the shopping malls and subdivisions 

and vacation homes that threaten to fragment and degrade habitat even more 

effectively than did the farmers' ploughed fields of two centuries ago. 

"We have two armies of occupation in this state," says the poet and 

environmental organizer Gary Lawless, a native of Maine. "There are the 

paper companies in the north, and along the coast the people who move here 

for a better life and change it in a different way. They're clear-cutting 

it too, only in very small pieces." In far-northern New Hampshire, says 

John Harrigan, the newspaper editor, "every year there are more of those 

all-night lights where there used to be darkness. People from away come 

here, and they think darkness is the enemy--bears or bogeymen or 

something." People bring pavement, Harrigan points out. Troublesome as a 

dirt road or a clear-cut can be, "once you've paved it, you've changed it 

forever."<P>

Perhaps the paradigm of development can be found forty miles from the 

middle of Manhattan, in Sterling Forest, a wood that straddles New York 

and New Jersey. A century ago it had been denuded by more than a hundred 

years of fueling iron smelters. (The great chain that the Continental Army 

stretched across the Hudson to block British ship traffic during the 

Revolution was forged in Sterling Forest.) But like so much of the East, 

it slowly grew back. Now it is a 17,500-acre patch of green full of 

rattlesnakes and bear, a critical path for migrating birds. Only one 

problem: the nicer it gets, the more valuable it becomes. At the moment 

the owner wants to develop it into five planned towns, with 13,000 units 

of housing and eight million square feet of industrial and commercial 

space. The business plan quotes the work of the environmentalist Wendell 

Berry on the need for ecological stewardship, and the company is indeed 

plotting carefully clustered homes. But the unbroken forest will vanish, 

and in its place will arise a chain of suburbs that together will 

constitute one of the larger towns between New York and Albany.<P>

Susan Sharko, who grew up in the area, and John Gebhards, who heads an 

environmental project that is trying to persuade New York State and the 

federal government to buy and preserve the land, took me for a hike one 

magnificent spring afternoon on the Appalachian Trail, which runs a few 

hundred feet from one of the planned communities. "This is literally less 

than an hour from Manhattan," Sharko said, pointing to a surging brook 

with shaggy old hemlocks leaning out across it. "Not <I>much</I> less, maybe 

three minutes less, but still . . ." Every time we reached a vantage point 

Gebhards would point to the next ridge and say, "That's going to be the 

new town of Tuxedo Estates" or "That's going to be one of the golf 

courses" (three are planned for the site).<P>

Whenever the trail reached a spot along bare ridge, we saw nothing but 

forest stretching into the distance. The view is powerful testimony to the 

enormous vigor of the natural world even on the edge of the megalopolis. 

But we're trained not to see it. Gebhards told me that although national 

environmental groups have endorsed his campaign, he had difficulty 

persuading them to devote their lobbyists' time to winning the 

congressional battle for funds to save the tract. "No one really believes 

there could be something like this near the city," he said--let alone that 

such a large space could be spared development. Leon Billings, a lobbyist 

for the developers, was more explicit when he spoke to a newspaper 

reporter about the plan in 1993. His childhood in Montana filled him with 

"an absolute admiration for the wilderness," he said. But to speak of 

Sterling Forest in the same breath was ludicrous, because it isn't virgin 

land. "We're not talking Glacier National Park here," he said. "This isn't 

even farmland in Virginia. This is an area that was at one time 

industrialized." By that reckoning there is hardly an inch of the East 

that should be off limits.<P>

And, in fact, some of the areas that have most recently been heavily cut 

are also under the greatest threat of development. One of the chief fears 

of eastern environmentalists is that the twin plagues of industrial 

forestry and overdevelopment will merge. In New England, for instance, the 

forest

products industry--which for all the damage it has inflicted has at least 

kept the vast woodlands it manages free of houses and pavement, and thus 

theoretically restorable--could decide to start selling off the land it 

has cleared.<P>

A single deal, one that speaks eloquently of the emerging global economy, 

touched off this worry. In the early 1980s a British financier, Sir James 

Goldsmith, took over Diamond International, a forest-products company that 

owned about a million acres in the northern forest. He quickly sold off 

most of the divisions of the company, recouping nearly all of the money he 

had spent to buy it--and was left with all the land, mostly undeveloped 

forest. This he sold to a French conglomerate that began retailing the 

land to the highest bidder. The region's economy was booming, and the 

demand for second homes climbing--a forty-acre lot on Moosehead Lake, in 

Maine, which sold for $50,000 in 1986, went for $250,000 in 1988. It was 

easy to imagine Loon-Cry Estates and Trillium Manors spreading across the 

New England landscape as quickly as the clear-cuts; the economic term for 

such development is "highest and best use" of the land. Because what 

builders really want is river and lake frontage, the journalist Ted 

Williams has pointed out in <I>Audubon</I> magazine, highest and best use 

"translates to suburbanization of remote watersheds."<P>

Alarmed at such a prospect, state governments and conservation groups paid 

premium prices to acquire some of the land. More important, New England 

senators pressed Congress to authorize the Northern Forest Lands Study, 

initiating a process that was finally completed last fall, when a council 

of government, industry, community, and environmental representatives 

released their report. Though the report disappointed some activists, 

especially because it paid little attention to clear-cutting and other 

logging practices, the council did recommend some modest acquisitions of 

land by the public, and called for the reconfiguration of tax codes to 

make development less likely and reduce economic pressures to cut. Its 

recommendations, if adopted, might help. But the study process also 

produced an unintended benefit: it spurred the emergence of a new breed of 

environmentalists in the region.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE NEW DEFENDERS</B><P>



<font size=5>E</font>ASTERN environmentalism was long a patrician enterprise--the effort of 

big-city swells to protect the mountain heights where they spent their 

summers, the lakes where they had their camps. The products of their time 

and place, these men and women played essential roles in preserving great 

tracts of land. But their sort of feudal noblesse oblige, although it 

lives on in many of the region's conservation groups, is clearly 

insufficient for the future.<P>

The prototype of the emerging environmentalist is perhaps Jamie Sayen, who 

lives on a back road in a paper-mill town in northern New Hampshire--a 

road lined with trailers, none of them with clever names carved on wooden 

signs out front. He has a big vegetable garden, a wood stove, and "running 

water" that runs from a spring in the woods.<P>

In the spring of 1987 Sayen published a map and an essay, "The Appalachian 

Mountains, Vision and Wilderness." In the years since, he has repeated his 

call for "continuous wild habitat the length of the Appalachian Range 

which in time could enable the return of unique plants and large 

animals--panthers, bears, wolves, moose--that have been exterminated 

throughout all or part of the mountain chain." The Appalachian Trail, 

stretching from Maine to Georgia, could be the "backbone"of this 

recovering wildness--one strong enough to "support the weight of the 

massive wild areas throughout the eastern reaches." These areas would be 

joined by corridors through zones of human habitation. Sayen wrote with 

confidence, because he had begun with a simple assumption that drove the 

rest of his thinking: the East, and by extension other spots on earth, 

would be successfully restored when the animals and plants that belonged 

there could safely return.<P>

His assumption ran counter to the prevailing mood of the Reagan-Bush 

years, when environmentalists tried to hang on to the small victories of 

the past; in the new Congress that mood might prevail again. "Is this a 

radical crackpot idea?" Sayen has written. "Certainly the defenders of the 

status quo would have you believe it is. But their ilk dismissed Benton 

MacKaye's 1921 proposal to create an Appalachian Trail . . . as the idea 

of a fool. Yet, the Appalachian Trail, one of the most treasured landmarks 

in the east, was completed less than two decades after it was first 

proposed!"<P>

Following Sayen's lead, others have forwarded similar proposals. Michael 

Kellett's group RESTORE, for instance, recently proposed a three-million

acre Maine Woods National Park, which would be the largest such area in 

the lower forty-eight states except for the newly created Death Valley 

National Park. All day as we flew above Maine's huge clear-cuts in the 

small plane, Kellett would announce, "We're crossing the park boundary 

now" or "We've just flown out of the park." At one point Rudy Engholm took 

us up to about 4,000 feet and turned the plane in a tight circle. "From 

here you can see about three million acres," Engholm said. "It makes it 

all a little more real." And it did. It was easy to envision the northern 

anchor of a renewed wilderness system, a block of green vast enough to 

nurture packs of wolves and herds of caribou, solitary cougar and lynx. 

"It's not too late," Kellett said. "The loggers have done a lot of damage, 

but there's still a chance for regeneration."<P>

Conservationists up and down the eastern mountains are thinking on the 

same scale. Wilderness proposals covering big tracts of land have surfaced 

for the Monongahela National Forest, in the central Appalachians, and for 

the Green Mountain and White Mountain national forests, in Vermont and New 

Hampshire respectively--indeed, for all the surprisingly large eastern 

tracts still devoid of houses, which with changes in management might 

become reservoirs of wildness for the entire region. The Southern 

Appalachian Biodiversity Project recently published detailed 

recommendations for reclaiming the Blue Ridge Mountains. In some ways the 

task is easier in the Southeast than in the North, because the public 

already owns much southern land as part of its national forests. Many of 

the millions of acres of national forest in the mountains stretching from 

Virginia down to Georgia are still heavily logged, however, and are 

crisscrossed with roads that must be gradually closed if the most 

sensitive plants and animals are to survive.<P>

A map that environmentalists imagine is easy to visualize--though perhaps 

unlikely to be made real, given the current Congress. It would start with 

a big chunk of the Maine woods, to be bought by the federal government and 

set aside as a national park. Timber companies have sold huge Maine 

parcels in recent years; the going price seems to be about $200 an acre 

and up, which means that a three-million-acre park might be had for less 

than half the price of a Stealth bomber. The money that could pay for it 

has actually been collected already, in the federal land-and-water

conservation fund, which was intended for land acquisition but hasn't been 

fully appropriated by Congress in recent years. Farther south the map 

would show lots of land that already belongs to the public, including the 

great state preserves of Pennsylvania and the national forests surrounding 

the Smokies--forests that could be made off limits to industrial logging. 

It is not inconceivable that wolves will someday wander all the way down 

the Appalachians, or cougars find their way back to most of the states 

where they once lived.<P>

The wilderness proposals reflect the emerging wisdom of conservation 

biologists, whose insight that big is better than small can be traced to 

E. O. Wilson's studies of island biogeography in the early 1960s. "In the 

late 1970s people started thinking about habitat surrounded by human 

modifications as an island," Steve Trombulak explains, and they soon 

realized that the smaller such islands became, the greater the chances for 

species extinction. "By now the evidence is so strong that it seems to me 

there are probably more scientists who believe you need large blocks of 

land to protect species than there are who believe in evolution."<P>

Frogs and salamanders, for example, may be unable to recolonize ponds 

where populations have dwindled in the course of natural cycles, because 

they are killed while crossing roads during their return to vernal pools. 

"I'm not saying we need to close every road," Trombulak says. "Underpasses 

can be built on the major roads. Others might be closed seasonally, when 

animals are migrating across them."<P>

"One of the things conservation biology tells us is that you don't need 

all <I>that</I> much land set aside for biotic integrity," Trombulak points out. 

"Species are pretty widely distributed, so you only need to set aside 

about half the landscape for nature. Now, a lot of people hear that and 

say it's ridiculous--there's no way we can set aside half for nature. I 

don't see it that way. That's about what it's like in the Adirondacks. 

More than half of Maine is for sale by the paper companies. Here in 

Vermont we've got the Green Mountains. Half leaves so much for humans to 

do with what they will, so long as they don't create havoc with the air 

and the water."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>GETTING EVERY JOB FROM EVERY TREE</B><P>



<font size=5>C</font>ONSERVATIONISTS have usually been most interested in land that has been 

left alone for a long time. But if the conservation movement is to make 

any headway, it will need to consider the human economies of the half that 

isn't exclusively nature's. At the moment, a strong property-rights 

movement fears the encroachment of environmentalists. Still, there is a 

real chance for fundamental change, if only because so much of the area is 

already so impoverished. The forest-products sector still employs perhaps 

100,000 people in the forests of northern New York and New England. But 

from 1984 to 1992 logging jobs in the Maine woods declined by 40 

percent--in large part because the feller-bunchers and other machines 

required many fewer workers than the old manual methods had. And this 

works in a vicious circle. Once a logger has the big new machine, he has 

to pay for it, and the only way to do that is with heavy cutting. A recent 

report from the Wilderness Society noted that lumber and wood-products 

workers in the southern Appalachians average $15,850 a year--a thousand 

dollars less than the average annual wage for service jobs. In <I>Beyond the 

Beauty Strip</I>, an encyclopedic account of industrial forestry, Mitch Lansky 

documents how timber interests manipulate state government to ensure low 

tax rates. Mill pollution has poisoned some of the region's rivers with 

dioxin to the point where women of childbearing age are advised not to eat 

the fish. The state recently issued a warning against eating tomalley from 

its lobsters, which is tainted with the carcinogen.<P>

What does this add up to? "The North Country is increasingly serving the 

role of a third world country, exporting its most valuable raw material . 

. . for further processing," one study concluded. Mark Lapping, one of 

America's premier rural planners and the provost at the University of 

Southern Maine, used a different analogy in <I>The Northern Forest Forum</I>, an 

environmental quarterly.<P>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

Northern New England is now the quintessential end-of-the-millennia on

the-periphery down-in-its-cups Appalachia . . . filled with dying towns, 

an aging population lacking the "necessary skills" to make it in the new 

world economic order and cultural despair.<P>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





Such villages are "chronically poor places which destroy the human spirit 

as well as the land, animals, plants and water."<P>

To understand what such places feel like, read any of Carolyn Chute's 

novels--particularly her recent masterpiece, <I>Merry Men</I>, set in a northern 

forest town where most of the trees have been hauled off to the chipping 

mills, where the only work is "five hammers for five weeks" building new 

vacation homes, and where the poverty is so deeply ingrained that no one 

expects much more. Those that can, get out; almost everyone else subsides 

into bad health and hopelessness. "Modern education is working on everyone 

to be desk people or people who fail at being desk people," Chute, who 

grew up in this world and lives there still, told me recently. "There's no 

chance for an A-plus in working with old people or growing your own food. 

There's only desk."<P>

Or visit Mitch Lansky in Wytopitlock, a town that exists, just, amid 

thousands of acres of trees slowly regenerating from clear-cuts--trees 

that will be valueless for years to come. Those who work in the woods 

routinely drive hours to reach the patches still worth cutting. And a 

local cottage industry--Christmas wreaths--has been harmed by the decision 

of a timber company in the area to impose a licensing fee on anyone who 

wants to glean spruce tips from its woods.<P>

Even those places that still have decent jobs--the paper-mill towns, 

mostly--are watching them disappear. Scott Paper, whose shares have hit 

record highs, laid off nearly a third of its work force last year. The 

company also sold its Maine forest and mills to a South African paper 

company, preserving for the moment the remaining jobs, but moving control 

even farther from the local area.<P>

Because these places are worked over, and because they are among the 

poorest parts of the country, they are also the places with the least to 

hold on to, and hence may offer the best chance for something new to 

emerge--or something old. As I was eating breakfast with John Harrigan at a 

restaurant in downtown Colebrook, New Hampshire, he glanced up every once 

in a while and made a mental note. When we left, he said, "While we've 

been sitting here, I've seen five log trucks going north to Canada with 

logs to be milled. There's a tremendous desire to do something about 

that--to get all the jobs possible out of every tree that hits the ground. 

Eighty years ago we had all sorts of factories--barrel staves, ax handles, 

shingles, clapboards, a host of products from hundreds of small factories. 

We've lost almost all of that, partly through our own neglect. We have to 

stop treating wood like a bulk crop, like wheat or soybeans. It's not 

'fiber,' damn it."<P>

"Value added" is the catchphrase for the way to improve the economies of 

these places: instead of selling pine trees to someone who will turn them 

into tables somewhere else, make the furniture near the forest. The 

Wilderness Society recently issued a report calling for a "sustaining 

forest," not a "working forest," in the northern woods. The report 

observes, for instance, that highway departments are once more interested 

in timber bridges, because road salt does not corrode them; its 

recommendations include everything from printing phone books right at the 

paper mills to producing ready-to-assemble furniture. "The labor-intensive 

manufacture of items such as furniture, musical instruments, wooden toys, 

and boats can provide economic diversity and bring new meaning into the 

lives of workers," Jamie Sayen says. In some rural parts of Oregon, where 

according to timber interests the Clinton plan to close parts of some 

national forests to logging was sure to destroy the economy, unemployment 

rates are now among the lowest in the nation; private woodlots support the 

mills, now that some of the federal forests are off limits.<P>

Tourism is usually touted as the other alternative, and for obvious 

demographic reasons. Seventy million people live within an eight-hour 

drive of the Green Mountain National Forest, for instance. From 1977 to 

1989 tourism's contribution to Maine's economy grew by 5.1 percent a year, 

even as the timber industry was laying people off. A recent Wilderness 

Society study found that tourism and recreation in the southern 

Appalachians' national forests already contribute $379 million annually, 

as compared with $32 million from logging on public land. The study said 

that the demand for recreation was likely to double in the next forty-five 

years: two thirds of the American population can drive to Smoky Mountains 

National Park in less than a day and a half. In the Adirondacks licensed 

guides have been showing city people where to hunt, fish, and hike for 

more than a century; for locals who have grown up loving the woods, it's a 

dignified way to stay in the mountains. A Maine Woods National Park, or a 

Nantahala National Forest in the southern Appalachians that was more 

geared to hikers and campers than to loggers, might well be an economic 

boon to the surrounding inhabitants.<P>

Such enterprises are also intermediate steps in the long, slow transition 

to something else. Andrew Whittaker, a Vermont environmentalist, recently 

looked seventy-five years into the future of his logging region. "The 

centerpiece of our new economy is the forest," he wrote in <I>The Northern 

Forest Forum</I>.<P>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

Small, vertically integrated logging operations have access to a good 

supply of large sawtimber which they take from stump to board. Local 

artisans are a more visible element of the economy than previously, and 

are able to make a living from the production of custom-built furniture, 

musical instruments, and buildings.<P>

</BLOCKQUOTE>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE PLACE BETWEEN WILD AND TAME</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>HE patron saint of the American West is John Muir. The ecstasy he 

committed to paper introduced a whole new grammar of wildness to the 

world, and just in time. Inspired by his passion, the first American 

environmental movement managed to save the last pristine corners of the 

West: Yosemite and Glacier national parks, the great wild lands of Alaska, 

the Grand and Bryce and Zion canyons. His hymn gathered a mighty choir.<P>

In his day Muir had an East Coast twin: John Burroughs. They were known as 

"the two Johns," and in fact, Burroughs was the more famous writer. When 

he traveled with Teddy Roosevelt on one trip, witnesses said, it was hard 

to tell whether the writer or the President was more popular with the 

crowds that turned out to greet them. Generations of American 

schoolchildren read Burroughs in special educational editions.<P>

Burroughs has pretty well disappeared from the national memory, mostly 

because the landscape he lovingly described has ceased to be of much 

interest. Burroughs was the bard of the bird feeder, the poet of the small 

and homey. Under Muir's tutelage, and under a barrage of photos and 

calendars and coffee-table books from the West, we have been trained to 

prize grandeur, awe, spectacle. But Burroughs had little use for the 

sublime. When he finally did visit Yosemite, he spent his first paragraph 

extolling the robin, "the first I had seen since leaving home. . . . Where 

the robin is at home, there at home am I."<P>

Instead of the vast and unexplored wilderness, Burroughs wrote about his 

native Catskills, where woodlands gave way to pasture and field, where 

small brooks ran into the placid Hudson. In <I>his</I> hymn people played a 

pleasing role. "Last summer," he recalled in an essay, he watched a farmer 

"take enough stones and rocks from a three-acre field to build quite a 

fortress; and land whose slumbers had never been disturbed with the plough 

was soon knee-high with Hungarian grass. How one likes to see a permanent 

betterment of the land like that!--piles of renegade stone and rock. It is 

such things that make the country richer."<P>

If, as Barry Lopez has written, "one of the great dreams of man must be to 

find some place between the extremes of nature and civilization where it 

is possible to live without regret," then John Burroughs is as important a 

writer as Muir, and his vision, too, is essential. His message has been 

submerged as we have become urban and suburban people who escape to the 

national parks for relaxation, but perhaps it is beginning once more to be 

heard. A hundred college students a year apply for the four all-but

unpaid internships at Caretaker Farm, in Williamstown, Massachusetts. 

There, in the shadow of Mount Greylock, which was hiked by Thoreau and 

which retains some vestigial groves of old-growth forest, they learn the 

patient work of growing things by hand, supplying vegetables for 130 local 

families on a plot that might have supported one colonial farmer. Last 

summer I asked one apprentice, a good child of suburbia, if the world of 

the farm had come to feel like home. "It feels completely natural to be 

here by now," she said. "We're all wondering if the other world will feel 

as natural when we go back."<P>

Michael Pollan is one of the few writers to have addressed these issues 

recently. His book <I>Second Nature</I> is partly an account of the greening of 

his Connecticut home and partly a spanking of environmentalists for 

focusing too much on wilderness. It argues that "the habit of bluntly 

opposing nature and culture has only gotten us into trouble, and we won't 

work ourselves free of this trouble until we have developed a more 

complicated and supple sense of how we fit into nature." He calls the 

gardener "that most artificial of creatures, a civilized human being: in 

control of his appetites, solicitous of nature, self-conscious and 

responsible, mindful of the past and the future." He is, I think, correct 

in pointing out that we misunderstand the middle ground even more than we 

misunderstand wilderness. It is there, in the places where we must grow 

food and cut trees, that we work out what it means to be a human animal. 

So far, so good; Pollan is a worthy successor to Burroughs. But the human 

animal is not the only animal, and huge swaths of the East are clearly 

able to support life both wild and tame.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE WOLF COMES BACK</B><P>



<font size=5>B</font>IOLOGISTS often talk about "indicator species." If the well-managed 

woodlot and the organic carrot are indicators that human beings are living 

wisely in their place, then the wolf is an indicator that human beings can 

learn to accept real limits. The wolf avoids people; unlike coyotes, which 

adapt to suburbs with ease, wolf packs need many square miles--<I>empty</I> 

square miles--to roam.<P>

Save for reintroduced populations of red wolves in coastal North Carolina 

and now the Smokies, the East is wolf-free. In 1630 Massachusetts enacted 

the first bounty in the New World--a shilling for every wolf carcass. 

Wolves were gone from Connecticut by 1837, from New Hampshire by 1895, 

from the farthest reaches of the Adirondacks by 1899, from Maine by 1909. 

Once the most widely distributed land mammal on earth, the wolf has been 

reduced to about five percent of its original range in the lower 

forty-eight states.<P>

And yet its return is not impossible. Healthy populations still live in 

Canada, including in Ontario's Algonquin Park and Quebec's Laurentides 

Park. And perhaps wolves have begun the slow drift back down. Wolves might 

re-establish themselves voluntarily in New England and the Adirondacks, 

and perhaps even move farther south. But they may need help--the carefully 

monitored release of animals from Canada or Alaska, much like the release 

of wolves that is now under way in Yellowstone Park. Among other 

obstacles, the St. Lawrence Seaway is kept clear of ice all winter long, 

making overland migration nearly impossible. And government officials have 

shied away from reintroduction plans, fearing that a public raised on 

Little Red Riding Hood, and a hunting fraternity fearing competition from 

another predator, could not cope with the wolf. But the experiences of 

Minnesota and Michigan show that wolves have done little harm. They kill 

old or sick deer, culling the weakest animals from the herd instead of 

picking off the prime specimens, as human hunters do.<P>

Stephen Kellert, a professor at Yale and an editor of the book <I>The 

Biophilia Hypothesis</I>, which proposes that there exists an ingrained human 

affinity for nature, has done surveys that show "a real fondness" for 

wolves, even among many hunters, as "a symbol of nature's wonder and 

beauty." John Harrigan has editorialized extensively in his small-town New 

Hampshire paper in favor of the return of the wolf and other predators, 

preferably "on their own four feet" instead of through reintroduction. 

"Ninety percent of the response I get is positive," he says.<P>

Even the lowing cows that Burroughs lauded could prosper alongside the 

wolf. A wolf is all but genetically programmed to chase deer and moose and 

such. Of the 7,000 farms within the Minnesota wolves' range, fewer than 

one percent have ever reported a wolf raid. Those farmers have been 

compensated by the state, which should easily be able to afford it--wolves 

have drawn ever more tourists to the north country, where they buy T

shirts and go on howling expeditions. In short, wolves belong here. The 

East will not be fully renewed until their packs wander its mountains 

again. That this is even a real possibility is a wonder, nearly a 

miracle.<P>



Nature's grace in the East offers the most important kind of hope, not only 

to a region that has been given a second chance to decide how to inhabit 

itself, but to a world in terrible need of models.  For the East is a real 

place--not a Yellowstone, with clear boundaries to separate people from 

nature.  In that way it looks like the rest of the world--like Siberia and 

the vast forested stretches of Asia, like Central and South America, like 

Africa.  Like them, too, it is real because of the devastation it has 

undergone.  In Haiti forest cover has dropped during this century from more 

than 80 percent to less than one; in parts of the Philippines, according to 

a 1993 article in <I>The New York Times</I>, a "chainsaw massacre of the regal 

hardwoods" has left erosion, silted streams, and weather that "veers from 

drought to flood." The same was true of much of Appalachia a century ago.  

Though other climates and soils may offer even greater challenges, the 

resurgence of forest in the East gives some distant promise that in other 

places in future days people may be able to depend on a replenished and 

revivified nature to provide them with a modest and reliable life.<P>



Here, where a certain kind of exploitation began, the fever has largely 

run its course. That fever still ravages most of the rest of the world; 

indeed, it finds much of its direction and capital in the financial and 

political centers of the American East. But not far away, outside the 

cities and suburbs, the ghost map of this place is reasserting 

itself--bear and turkey and moose are reclaiming their territory; trees 

are growing up around stone walls. The old frontiers have closed. That, we 

are told, is the story of American and indeed world history. A new 

frontier may be opening here--an expanding frontier of recovery that, 

given infinite human care and nurturing, might follow the waves of 

destruction across the continent and then around the world. On a hill in 

coastal Maine the body of the naturalist Henry Beston is buried on the 

edge of a second-growth pine forest. His epitaph is from his classic book 

about Cape Cod, <I>The Outermost House</I>: "Creation is still going on, the 

creative forces are as great and as active to-day as they have ever been, 

and to-morrow's morning will be as heroic as any of the world." We have 

little choice in this hard-pinched world but to hope that he was right; 

and the region where he lived his life offers us at least a slender chance 

that it is so.<p>

	

	

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1995 by The Atlantic Monthly.  All rights reserved.  <br>



The Atlantic Monthly; April 1995; An Explosion of Green; Volume 275, No.  

4; pages 61-83.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-15</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B047-46</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/race/intrcoal.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117202246 text/html 14005
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:22:43 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:07 GMT
Content-length: 13799
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Interracial Coalitions

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>June 1990</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



Interracial Coalitions



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Paul Ruffins</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>"New moderation" doesn't account for the dramatic gains

that black politicians made in the last elections</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

<font size=5>T</font><html>HE voters of Virginia made history last November when they elected a grandson

of slaves, L. Douglas Wilder, to be their governor. In New York City voters

elected a black man, David Dinkins, to be their mayor. Black mayors were also

elected in Seattle and New Haven--venues, like Virginia and New York City,

where blacks make up 26 percent or less of the population. The significance of

these victories has been obscured by political commentators, whose instant

analyses have congealed into two opposite versions of the conventional wisdom

concerning "moderation." Some black analysts have attacked these new officials

for being too moderate. Thus Susan Anderson, writing in The Nation, blasted the

new generation of black politicians for caving in to the expediency of building

political coalitions rather than being advocates for the economically

disenfranchised black masses. Similarly, in a nationally syndicated column

headlined "BEWARE OF 'CROSSOVER' POLITICS," Tony Brown warned that the election

of blacks by whites will only result in black politicians' turning their backs

on black interests in order to appease their new white constituents.<p>



The very moderation decried by these black writers was hailed by conservatives

and the establishment press generally. The Wall Street Journal's headline "NEW

GENERATION: BLACK MODERATES WIN AT POLLS BY TARGETING ONCE-ELUSIVE WHITES," was

echoed in media commentaries across the country. In these stories "moderation"

was most often defined in Wilder's words, as not making "special appeals to

special groups." A truer definition would have been not making "special appeals

to black people." Wilder's victory in Virginia clearly rested on his appeal to

pro-choice voters, and in New York, Dinkins explicitly sought the Jewish

vote.<p>



For conservatives, positing a "new generation" of black politicians preserves

the Reagan-era contention that the problems facing minorities are largely of

their own making. According to the theory as it has emerged on the pages of The

Wall Street Journal, whites would not vote for "old-generation" black

politicians, not because many whites harbored racist sentiments but because

black politicians had not evolved to the point at which they would be worthy of

white support. The new-generation theory moreover, allows for the dismissal of

the old generation, primarily the always inconvenient Jesse Jackson, as

obsolete.<p>



Though the moderation displayed by Wilder and Dinkins is real enough, it is by

no means new by the standards of most current black mayors or members of the

House of Representatives, who are predominantly mainstream liberal Democrats.

In the first half of the 10lst Congress there were five black congressmen who

could be considered to belong to a new generation, because they were under

fifty and were elected during the Reagan era. None could be labeled "angry" or

"radical." In fact, of the over-fifty generation of black congressmen only two,

William Clay, of St. Louis, and Gus Savage, of Chicago, could be considered

angry, and only two, George Crockett, of Detroit, and Ron Dellums, of Berkeley

(a Democrat who considers himself a Socialist), could be called radical.<p>



The point is that there is no new, more moderate generation of black

politicians. Most have been moderate all along. There have been angry civil

rights leaders and black activists, but the angry black politician is a

stereotype of conservatives. "What I think happens," Congressman Ed Towns, of

Brooklyn, recently told me, "is that people confuse black politicians with

black civil-rights leaders such as Martin Luther King and Stokely Carmichael,

most of whom never ran for anything."<p>



To be sure, the newer and older generations of black congressmen do differ.

Many older members of the Congressional Black Caucus, for instance, are

strongly pro-labor, even anti-corporation. In contrast, with the exception of

Congressman John Lewis, of Atlanta, primarily known as a civil-rights activist,

the "new-generation" black members--men like Alan Wheat, thirty-eight, of

Kansas City; Floyd Flake, forty-five, of Queens; Kweisi Mfume, forty-one, of

Baltimore; and Mike Espy, thirty-six, of the Second Congressional District of

Mississippi--are known mainly for their interest in regional economic issues

and small-business development. To take one example, Flake, who is a minister,

won office by playing up his credentials as a catalyst for economic

development; under his leadership his church built a 300-unit housing complex

and revitalized dozens of small businesses. Flake maintains, against critics

like Susan Anderson, that what in fact distinguishes his generation of black

congressmen from their predecessors is their focus on business and the economic

empowerment of the black community.<p>



"We have a much broader sense of black participation in the wider economy,"

Flake told me recently. "We see business as generating the necessary resources

for social change, versus the idea that social change creates the avenues for

business." This is not to suggest, however, that the black House members care

only about black issues. According to both the League of Conservation Voters

and the National Wildlife Federation, the Congressional Black Caucus has had a

better environmental voting profile than any other group in Congress. It also

has made a strong showing on women's issues.<p>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>W</font><html>ILDER and Dinkins, then, did not win because they belong to a new generation

of moderate black politicians but because they benefited from a new set of

circumstances that allowed them to capture record numbers not only of black

votes but of white votes too. By becoming the official Democratic Party

nominees, they acquired unprecedented (for black politicians) amounts of money,

TV time, and organizational support. Black candidates are usually relatively

poorly funded, but recently they have raised nearly as much money as their

opponents. During the primary-election campaign Dinkins raised $2.9 million,

nearly as much as the powerful incumbent mayor, Edward Koch. Wilder spent

approximately $6 million, almost as much as his opponent. In addition, the

Democratic National Committee provided the Democratic ticket in Virginia with

$200,000, a phone bank, and volunteers to get out the vote. Wilder and Dinkins

were also able to build on Jesse Jackson's efforts to register thousands of

black voters and to compile lists of donors and committed supporters.<p>



Support from the party was important in another way too. Even though many

Democratic voters defected to the Republican opponents of Wilder and Dinkins,

both black Democrats had their party's undivided backing, while their opponents

faced intra-party battles. As Virginia's lieutenant governor, Wilder was such a

clear choice to run for governor that his party nominated him unanimously at a

state convention. Marshall Coleman, his Republican opponent, had to wage an

expensive and debilitating primary campaign against the former senator Paul

Trible and Representative Stan Parris. Neither Trible nor Parris played any

significant role in Coleman's general-election campaign, while both Senator

Charles Robb and Governor Gerald Baliles, despite having clashed with Wilder in

the past, backed him to the hilt.<p>



Dinkins had similar advantages. Once he won the primary, he received the strong

support of leading Democrats, including Mayor Koch, Governor Mario Cuomo, and

Senator Edward Kennedy, of Massachusetts. Again, his opponent, Rudolph

Giuliani, was not so lucky. Giuliani's rancorous feud with New York's most

popular Republican, Senator Alfonse D'Amato, cost him dearly at the polls: the

$8 million worth of negative television advertising bought by his

Republican-primary challenger, Ronald S. Lauder, who was widely thought to have

entered the race at the prompting of D'Amato, left him a seriously weakened

candidate in the general-election campaign.<p>



But the key to the Wilder and Dinkins victories was not money and strong party

support, let alone moderation. It was a factor that may say something hopeful

not just about black politicians, the Democratic Party, or even American

politics but about American society: in Virginia and New York other issues

(party loyalty and the right to choose an abortion) were ultimately more

important than the racial issue. The Democratic Party in Virginia and New York

was able to stand behind its black candidates because its white voters allowed

it to do so. Even though many white Democrats did desert their party's

candidates for governor and mayor in the end, making both elections much closer

than the polls had predicted, they did not reject the party for running black

candidates: in both Virginia and New York other (white) Democrats on the ticket

did very well. The willingness of white voters to support tickets headed by

blacks and to give the blacks themselves record levels of support--Dinkins got

30 percent of the white vote, Wilder got about 42 percent--was what was really

new about the Wilder and Dinkins victories. In comparison, a year earlier Jesse

Jackson wasn't able to win more than 15 percent of the white vote in Virginia

or New York.<p>



While discrepancies between exit polls and the election returns cast some doubt

on the poll data, it seems clear that much of Dinkins's and Wilder's backing

among whites came from younger voters. According to a survey by The New York

Times and WCBS-TV News, white voters thirty to forty-four were much more likely

to vote for Dinkins than were white voters over sixty. The age differential was

also significant in Virginia. This generation gap among white voters is

emerging at a critical time. Black politics has expanded to the limit of what

black voters can accomplish by themselves. Data provided by the Joint Center

for Political Studies shows that with the exception of New Orleans, all the

nation's majority-black congressional districts already have a black member of

Congress. In addition, with the exception of Richmond, Virginia, all

majority-black cities of more than 200,000 already have black mayors. This

means that for black politicians to make gains, they will have to face the new

challenge of running against other black candidates in primary-election

campaigns in which white voters are apt to be the swing vote. (A good example

of this was the bitter 1986 congressional race in Georgia between two

civil-rights heroes, Julian Bond and John Lewis.) It also means that black

politicians will have the chance to use bridge issues, like the environment and

women's rights, to connect with a larger electorate. "I think there was a

feeling on the part of many black elected officials," Lewis told me, "that they

could have been a congressperson or a mayor only in a district or city that is

majority-black. But the elections of Dinkins and Wilder changed that

altogether. Doug Wilder's success sent a strong message to black and Hispanic

men and women that you can move up, that you can have a base that is larger

than your ethnic group."<p>



Wilder's victory showed that a black candidate can attract enough white support

to win in an area with a proportion of black voters as low as 17 percent. If 17

percent is the minimum proportion of black voters needed for a black candidate

to build a winning coalition, more than eighty congressional districts could

send a black member to Congress, and eight states could elect a black governor

or black senators. That possibility is the promise for the future of the

victories of Douglas Wilder and David Dinkins. Their present meaning was best

summed up by Ed Towns when he said, "There isn't a new generation of black

politicians--there is a new generation of white voters."<p>







	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1990 by Paul Ruffins.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; June 1990 ; Interracial Coalitions; Volume 265, 

No. 6; pages 28-34.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-16</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B031-67</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/cutterf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191310 text/html 39897
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:12:52 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:42:58 GMT
Content-length: 39691
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>The Battle of the Budget</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

	<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>



</center>





<p>



<font size=4>March 1981</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





The Battle of the Budget</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by W. Bowman Cutter</font></center>

<p><br><br><p>



<p>



<blockquote><i><font size=4>Can President Reagan pay the

bills? The new administration has begun with promises of strict austerity--but

so have others in the past. The author, executive director for budget at OMB

under President Carter, spent four years and billions of dollars discovering

that the federal budget is intractable. He offers some friendly advice for his

successor.</i></font><p>



<p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>F</font><font size=3>ederal spending is out of control. The stated 1981 budget deficit is $60

billion; however, I'd bet on $70 billion or higher rather than $50 billion or

lower--no matter what President Reagan does. In January 1980, President Carter

first proposed federal spending for 1981 to be $616 billion. In March 1980, the

estimate was revised to $612 billion. And in January of this year, President

Carter's last budget forecast it to be about $664 billion. It will end up

higher at the end of President Reagan's first fiscal year despite his

enthusiastic post-election declarations about cutting it by $40 billion to $620

billion. And this leaves out the roughly $20 billion of spending that, for

various preposterous reasons, is kept off-budget.<p>





This predicament was not caused by President Carter, or by any one president.

It will not be corrected by one president. It took fifty years to reach this

pass.<p>







Five years from now the deficit, counted honestly, could range between $100

billion and $150 billion. Federal spending could rise to 25 percent of GNP from

the present 22.5 percent, tax burdens to almost 24 percent from about 21

percent at the end of 1980. These may seem to be small changes; they are not. A

one-point increase in spending or taxes as percentage of GNP represents--in

five years--a shift of $50 billion from the private to the public sector. Such

shifts could well mean the difference between an economy beginning to recover

from the shocks of the 1970s and one spiraling through an experience of

alternating high interest rates, high unemployment, and low growth--with

double-digit inflation as a constant.<p>







Ronald Reagan is caught in the same trap that snared Jimmy Carter. The federal

budget's basic structure was established in the twenty-five years immediately

after World War II, a period of extraordinary performance on the part of the

U.S. economy. In such a period of sustained real growth, low unemployment, and

low inflation, the public sector could steadily expand without any apparent

harm to the private sector. Between 1950 and 1980, the budget grew by over 1000

percent, and in the course of that growth established a momentum inconsistent

with the limits posed by today's economy. Moreover, despite the budget's huge

size, there is no obvious "room." The programs in the budget are extremely hard

to reduce or even slow down. But without such reductions, the impending

deficits will not allow the tax cuts or the defense increases Ronald Reagan

promised, and which he believes the country needs.<p>



<p>



<p>



The fact is we are overcommitted. Fifty years of automatic resort to the public

purse--indulged in with equal enthusiasm by Democrats and Republicans--have led

to a budget with an almost unstoppable momentum whose premises were set in

better times. We have an emerging structural deficit (one that persists in good

and bad times) the nation cannot afford. We spend too much on income

transfers--or at least we spend it without sufficient thought. Believe it or

not, we underspend in significant areas. And no party to the process by which

we decide on public spending has sufficient power to initiate and sustain a

purposeful long-term policy of change.<p>



<br>



<b>The Sad Story of the Fiscal 1980 Budget</b><p>



<p>



In early 1978, barely one year into his presidency, Jimmy Carter and his

principal advisers were deeply concerned about the rising level of inflation

and the force of its momentum. At the same time, the managers of the federal

budget had become worried about a surge in spending and an impending deficit

that was much too large. By March of 1978, my OMB (Office of Management and

Budget) staff had predicted that the 1980 deficit would be at least $55 billion

if we did not act, approximately the same level as the deficit forecast for the

1979 budget. To allow another deficit in the neighborhood of $60 billion in a

time of accelerating inflation seemed profoundly wrong--wrong in strictly

economic terms, wrong politically, wrong given the President's public

commitments to budget control.<p>



<p>



<p>



In a long set of discussions in May and June 1978, the President was told in

detail what a substantial reduction in the deficit would entail. We would have

to reduce the tax cut the administration had already proposed--requiring

immediate discussions with congressional leaders. His promise to provide growth

above the rate of inflation for the defense budget had to mean even worse

prospects for the domestic budget. No new programs of any significant size

could be proposed. Existing programs for the cities, for transportation, for

the environment--programs that already provided benefits, and had clients and

constituents (most of them Democrats)--had to be held down or cut back. Legal

changes would have to be proposed to Congress to permit reductions in such

untouchables as Social Security and Medicare. Federal operating costs would be

reduced, federal salary increases would be limited, federal hiring would be

restricted.<p>



<p>



<p>



No one was under any illusions about the difficulty of this effort for this

President. In June 1978, Jimmy Carter was not particularly popular. But any

President would have had an extremely tough sale on his hands. Conservatives

would be pleased with the direction the President was taking, but displeased

with its moderate quality, its necessary concessions to other points of view.

On the other hand, much of the Democratic party--where the President had to

look for support--would despise the entire effort. The President had to

convince one set of skeptics that a policy of restraint was acceptable and

appropriate while he persuaded another that too much restraint was inequitable

and unfair to those who depended upon federal programs. Despite the obstacles,

the President decided at the end of these spring discussions upon a major turn

toward restraint.<p>



<p>



<p>



A policy of restraint, even if applied absolutely evenly, would have been

difficult enough. But as President, Jimmy Carter had to make choices between

programs, and the choices he felt compelled to make ran against the grain of

his party. He was in the process of concluding that the defense budget had to

be increased.<p>



<p>



<p>



The President's evolving attitude toward defense spending had been a source of

muted displeasure among many Democrats for more than a year. In his 1976

campaign, he had argued that the defense budget could be reduced by more

efficient management. But within six months of taking office, in June 1977, he

had permitted Secretary of Defense Harold Brown to announce an administration

decision to increase defense by 3 percent in real terms, 3 percent above the

rate of inflation. Now it was obvious he was considering extending that defense

commitment for a second budget year. A defense spending increase would, of

course, mean disproportionate pressure on the rest of the budget; the "rest of

the budget" consisted largely of domestic, "Democratic" programs.<p>



<p>



<p>



For the remainder of 1978, planning for the 1980 budget was a central aspect of

the President's domestic policy. By late fall, the 1980 budget had become an

issue of considerable prominence. Its general direction was widely known. The

standard Washington game of leaking the OMB's budget "marks" prior to budget

publication flourished with more than normal intenseness. Meetings with the

President were requested by the leadership of every group that felt its

programs were threatened.<p>



<p>



<p>



In December the Democratic party's second midterm convention was held in

Memphis, Tennessee. Midterm conventions are always tough on incumbent

Democratic presidents. The party believes deeply in a positive government--one

that searches out social problems and defines programmatic solutions. But a

president has to balance problems, solutions, resources, and opportunities.<p>



<p>



<p>



This convention had not only the normal, built-in dissatisfactions but also the

issue of President Carter's budget directions and priorities to chew on. In his

speech to the convention on December 9, 1978, Senator Edward Kennedy tore into

President Carter's budget policies.<p>



<p>



<p>



"I support the fight against inflation. But no such fight can be effective or

successful unless the fight is fair. The party that tore itself apart over

Vietnam in the 1960's cannot afford to tear itself apart today over budget cuts

in basic social programs.<p>



<p>



<p>



"There could be few more divisive issues for America and for our party than a

Democratic policy for drastic slashes in the federal budget at the expense of

the elderly, the poor, the black, the sick, the cities, and the unemployed."<p>



<p>



<p>



In commenting on the speech, Adam Clymer of the New York Times wrote, "Senator

Edward M. Kennedy today confronted President Carter over the spirit that should

guide the Democratic party.<p>



<p>



<p>



"In a ringing speech to a cheering audience of 2,500, the Massachusetts

Democrat seized a building mood at the conference, where unhappiness about

budget proposals was heard again and again at workshops on the cities,

inflation, arms control and health insurance."<p>



<p>



<p>



If it accomplished nothing else, the convention made clear that if President

Carter continued to pursue his stated budget policies, he was risking major

problems with an important part of the Democratic party. The party was not

ready to embrace budget restraint.<p>



<p>



<p>



But President Carter's 1980 budget was tougher than that of any other

Democratic president in modern history. In January 1979, he announced a budget

for fiscal year 1980 of $532 billion in spending and $503 billion in receipts.

The deficit of $29 billion hit the mark he had set publicly the previous

November. The domestic budget fell in real terms; grants to state and local

governments fell in real terms. Reductions of $600 million in Medicare and

Social Security were recommended. Defense spending was proposed to grow 3

percent in real terms. The President had made his choice.<p>



<p>



<p>



<br><b>But Was It Really? And What Did It Get Him?</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Much federal spending is tied directly to economic conditions: if conditions

change, federal spending changes. Therefore, when a president proposes a

budget, he is also providing, explicitly, an economic forecast upon which that

budget depends.<p>



<p>



<p>



President Carter's 1980 budget had forecast economic growth of 3.2 percent,

inflation of 6.3 percent, and unemployment of 6.2 percent. A year later, in

January 1980, the new forecast for 1980 was dramatically different: economic

growth of -1.0 percent, inflation of 10.4 percent, unemployment of 7.5 percent.

Jimmy Carter was hit at the same time with three of the four factors that force

spending up automatically: lower economic growth, higher inflation, higher

unemployment. (The fourth factor is high interest rates; in two months he'd

have those also.) This time, his 1980 budget was for $564 billion in

spending--an increase of $32 billion. The predicted deficit had grown from $30

billion to $40 billion.<p>



<p>



The financial community went crazy. In the intervening year, times and needs

had changed. The fall of the shah had precipitated another oil shortage; oil

prices had doubled. Inflation had risen to a markedly high level and, more

important, had become a matter of national concern and anxiety. It was a

fact--but clearly a politically trivial one--that virtually all of the $32

billion spending increase now forecast was due either to drastically changed

economic circumstances--which no president can control--or to defense

increases--which the financial world by and large approved of. The 1980 budget

no longer represented a policy of restraint; rather, it now seemed symptomatic

of the uncontrolled appetite of the federal monster.<p>



<p>



<p>



After a period of intense turmoil in the markets, the President announced that

officials of his administration would begin immediate meetings with the

Democratic congressional leadership about the budgets he had proposed only six

weeks earlier. In effect, events had forced the President to withdraw and

reconsider his budgets. After an eleven-day series of all-day meetings with

members of Congress, President Carter at the end of March 1980 presented

revised and reduced 1980 and 1981 budgets.<p>



<p>



<p>



But events continued to grind on. In late October 1980, shortly after the end

of fiscal year 1980 and approximately one week before the presidential

elections, final federal spending figures for the fiscal year were released.

Fiscal year 1980 spending was $579 billion and the deficit was $59 billion.

Spending had grown by $47 billion from the time the budget was proposed to the

end of the fiscal year; it had grown by $85 billion over the previous year; the

deficit had doubled from the limit President Carter had publicly established.

The restrained budget of 1980, upon which Jimmy Carter had spent so much

political capital, ended up as a symbol of his profligacy and loss of

control.<p>



<p>



<br>



<B>The "Real" Budget</b><p>



<p>



One of the small cruelties of American politics is the peculiar requirement

that defeated presidents must prepare and propose a budget for a time beginning

well after their departure from office. The requirement imposes an enormous

amount of melancholy, largely useless work. A defeated president has to review

his past dreams; decide upon the course of a defense policy he can influence

for, at most, thirty more days; consider with his economic advisers fiscal

policy for a future he will not affect; adjudicate disputes between his OMB and

his Cabinet, knowing that no one will care. It is bitter medicine, but

President Carter carried out this painful responsibility with grace, dignity,

and humor.<p>



<p>



<p>



I spent those months working the normal awful hours budget-making requires, but

this time there was a difference. From my northeast corner office in the Old

Executive Office Building--that magnificent baroque structure next to the White

House that once housed all of the State, War, and Navy departments--I could see

the excited, intense movement across the street at Blair House when Ronald

Reagan came or left, and down the street a bit I could watch the construction

of the Inaugural review stands. They were forming a government. We were

carrying out the required forms of one that had been dissolved. It was not a

task that held much joy, but it forced a great deal of thought about the nature

of my work for the past four years.<p>



<p>



<p>



If, at least in part, politics is about who gets what, then a budget is a

statement of a given year's results in that competition. But it is also an

explicit or implicit statement about a number of other, more fundamental

questions--the appropriate size of government, the value and impact of federal

programs, the role of government vis-a-vis the private sector.<p>



<p>



<p>



The budget process encompasses every major actor in the political system. The

budget that emerges annually from this process is an extraordinarily complex

crystallization of agreements among institutions, competitors, interests, and

philosophies. I believe that its current size and built-in rate of growth raise

serious problems; its structure is inappropriate; its allocations of resources

are increasingly wrong; and the process that determines it yields

self-canceling decisions. But having managed the preparation of five budgets,

I'm disturbed by a tendency to underestimate its complexity and to depict

changing it as relatively easy. To listen to most political discussions of

economics or the budget is to come away with the sense that the federal budget

can be changed easily by cutting fraud, waste, and bureaucrats, and that our

current situation is one a malevolent government created against the will of

the American people.<p>



<p>



<p>



Reality is different. The budget represents commitments made over decades.

Those commitments will not be changed without significant conflict. Of course,

some fraud and waste occur in federal spending. But normally the term "waste"

denotes someone else's program. As a senior Defense Department official once

said about the defense budget, "At least we don't piss it away on welfare." And

finally, despite public mythology, the budget achieved its present state with

the knowledge and active connivance of the American people.<p>



<p>



<p>



Every federal program has numerous supporters, is passed by Congress, and is

signed by a president. Very few are repealed. The OMB and the Treasury do not

work overtime receiving remittances from citizens giving back federal

benefits.<p>



<p>



<p>



The very scale of the federal budget ($740 billion in the recently introduced

1982 budget--almost one quarter of the GNP--with 2000 to 4000 programs,

depending on definitions, and 1.9 million civilian employees) allows the

presumption that change is easy to achieve. Candidates, presidents, and

presidents-elect always believe that the "base"--that part of the budget they

do not understand--can be cut. Jimmy Carter ran for office on the claim that a

new technique--zerobased budgeting--would provide a means to cut that mythical

base, make room for new programs, and still allow budget restraint. For four

years he was puzzled and irritated by the fact that the choices were so brutal.

He grew to hate the budget process.<p>



<p>



<p>



Even Ronald Reagan--who ran against the federal government--followed the same

pattern. During his campaign he committed himself to expenditures and tax cuts

as if he were a liberal Democrat. He supported bilingual education, guaranteed

loans for the Chrysler Corporation and New York City, increased Social

Security, federal employee pensions indexed to inflation twice a year,

increased support for the National Maritime Administration, and the largest tax

cuts in history. But he chose, predictably, not to identify the programs he

would cut, relying instead on the familiar promise to cut waste.<p>



<p>



<p>



In fact, most general discussions of the budget proceed with virtually no

understanding of the structure of the budget. Political leaders, senior

business executives, the press, even most public officials intuitively think of

a budget structure in a way something like the following:<p>



<p>

<br>

<p>



                       <center>   <b>Table 1: 1980 Budget</center></b><p>



<p>



     Defense: $135.9 billion<p>



<p>



     Education: 13.8 billion<p>



<p>



     Energy: 6.3 billion<p>



<p>



   Health &amp; Human Services: 194.7 billion<p>



<p>



     NASA: 4.8 billion<p>



<p>



   Treasury--interest:                            74.8 billion<p>



<p>



     The Rest:                                      149.3 billion<p>



<p>



     <b>Total:                                            $579.6 billion</b><p>

<br>

<p>



<p>



This budget (the actual figures from the 1980 fiscal year, which ended

September 30, 1980) shows what the nation buys with its money and suggests,

implicitly, how these funding decisions could be changed. A budget organized

this way virtually demands certain questions: Why not add $10 billion to

Defense and take it from Health &amp; Human Services (a 5 percent reduction)?

or reduce the entire total by $25 billion (only 4 percent)? This is the budget

new presidents believe they face, the one Congress must have in mind when it

periodically tries to reduce every agency by 2 percent or 5 percent. This is

the budget business leaders think of when they demand austerity. But this is

not the budget that has developed over the past thirty years; it is not the

budget that drives presidents crazy.<p>



<p>



<p>



The "real" budget looks like this:<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>



<center><b>Table II: 1980 Budget</center></b><p>



<p>







<p>



     A. Required spending<p>

<blockquote>

<p>



           Payments for individuals:                    $255.7 billion<p>



<p>



             Military pensions:                                11.9 billion<p>



<p>



           Other (interest on the national debt, long-term contracts): 172.0 billion<p>

<p>



Total:     439.6 billion<p>



<p>

</blockquote>

<p>

<br>

     B. Personnel (largely discretionary)<p>

<blockquote>

<p>



                 Military:                                               30.3 billion<p>



<p>



                 Civilian:                                                38.9 billion<p>



<p>



                                                              Total:

69.2 billion<p>



<p>

<br>

<p>

</blockquote>

     C. Discretionary spending<p>

<blockquote>

<p>



                  Defense:                                               57.0 billion<p>



<p>



                  Domestic:                                             13.8 billion<p>



<p>



                                                                   Total: 70.8 billion<p>



<p>



<p>

</blockquote>

                                                        <br>    <b>  Total:

$579.6 billion</b><p>



<p>

<br>



<p>



About 45 percent of the total budget consists of required payments to

individuals--Social Security, Medicare, military pensions; 30 percent consists

of interest payments and long-term contract commitments--water projects, naval

ships, solar energy demonstrations or public buildings; and all annual

discretionary spending--funds that could actually be reduced in any particular

year--makes up the final 24 percent. Salaries for government workers, the

Beekeepers Indemnity Fund, public service jobs, foreign aid, the urban

gardening program, mass transit subsidies, solvent-refined coal demonstration

plants, consulting contracts good and bad, the homeownership assistance

program, production costs for nuclear bombs, the Edward Hebert Medical College

of the Armed Forces, and anything else one can imagine fit into one quarter of

the budget.<p>



<p>



<p>



This structure means that many intuitive judgments about federal budget policy

are wrong. Programs and dollars are not interchangeable or fungible. In the

"real" budget, Medicaid expenditures, federal salaries, and HUD planning funds

are authorized by different laws; they have different histories and legal

bases; and they occur over different time periods. In practice, a president

finds that a dollar in one program is different from a dollar in another

program.<p>



<p>



<p>



In 1978, HEW Secretary Joseph Califano offered Jimmy Carter a deal. If the

President would increase certain discretionary programs in the "restrained"

1980 budget by a few hundred million dollars, he would return to the President

more than that amount in savings--by proposing a number of sensible and small

reductions in Social Security. Secretary Califano's offer, in the larger scheme

of things, made a great deal of sense. But he was offering to trade

uncontrollables for discretionary dollars. The President agreed. Secretary

Califano got his budget increases for 1980. Congress never gave the President

his savings.<p>



<p>



<p>



Over time, this structure virtually forces the wrong allocative decisions on

presidents and Congress. That part of the budget now taken up by direct

payments of income--income transfers--is so large a percentage of the total

that it virtually determines the entire budget. Income transfers have a

momentum of their own, unrelated to the limits of the economy or the needs of

other programs. First, these programs are entitlements: they are assured by law

to qualifying individuals; they do not pass through the appropriations process.

It is much harder procedurally and vastly harder politically to constrain these

programs than it is to constrain any others. Second, income transfers compose a

structure of programs erected over fifty years with little attention paid to

its internal cohesion. Today, we have Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food

stamps, supplementary security income (SSI), and aid to families with dependent

children. We also have housing programs, training and employment programs,

education programs, energy grants, low-income weatherization programs, and

nutrition programs. These programs were conceived, passed, and implemented at

different times and they are not changed as new programs are established. I'm

glad we have them. But I believe that the taxpayer deserves a more cohesive

structure, a rationalization, a careful trimming of overlaps and redundancies.

Finally, these programs are virtually all indexed to the Consumer Price Index.

That is why spending surged so much in the 1980 budget. That's wonderful for

the beneficiary, terrible for the budget, and probably unfair to the taxpayer.

For the past two or three years, increases in the Consumer Price Index have run

far ahead of wage increases. In effect, indexation--in the form we have it

now--requires wage earners to pay taxes funding a larger annual increase in

income than they themselves receive.<p>



<p>



The effect of this structure of programs is either to force increases in

spending that will not always be consistent with sound economic policy or to

force other, equally valuable programs out of the budget. Both consequences

occur. The truly discretionary spending in the budget is steadily squeezed

because it is not legally required. We underfund the investment programs in the

budget. We do not sufficiently maintain the government's own facilities and

capital investments. I believe, totally contrary to current notions, that we

spend too little on federal operations--on such functions as program oversight,

or debt management. At the same time, because cuts in these discretionary

expenditures cannot compensate for increases in less discretionary areas, the

budget grows in an unacceptable manner. It has become increasingly obvious that

if we cannot take a long and searching look at the current structure of

uncontrollable income-transfer programs, we cannot solve the problems of the

budget.<p>



<p>



<p>



Last fall, in the middle of a long and difficult discussion of one agency with

an entirely discretionary budget, the agency head finally hit the table with

his fist and said, "When are you sons of bitches in OMB going to do something

about Wilbur Cohen's money machine? It's killing the rest of us."<A HREF="#endnote">[See

endnote]</A>.<p>



<p>



<p>



Between 1980 and 1981, the federal budget will increase by $86 billion, or 15

percent. It is commonplace to observe that budget restraint could be easily

achieved by limiting these multibillion annual increases. But this completely

ignores the real structure of the budget and the source of most of the

increased spending.<p>



<p>



<p>



          <center><b>      Table III: 1980-1981 Source of Changes</b></center><p>







<p>



1. Total change: <p>

<blockquote>86.7 billion (100 percent)<p>

</blockquote>

<br>

2. Required non-defense spending:<p>

<blockquote>61.1 billion (7 percent)<p>

<p>

<br>

</blockquote>3. Defense spending:<p>

<blockquote>20.0 billion (23 percent)<p>

<br>

</blockquote>4. Discretionary non-defense:<p>

 <blockquote>5.8 billion (7 percent)<p>

<br>

</blockquote>5. Salaries: <p>

 <blockquote>6.8 billion (8 percent)<p>

 <br>



</blockquote>6. Asset sales and other revenues: <p>

  <blockquote>                                -7.0 billion        (-8 percent)<p>

</blockquote>

<p>

<bR>

<p>



As the table shows, virtually all of the year-to-year increases in the budget

are either mandatory or the result of policy commitments with which most of the

nation agrees. Of the total increase from 1980 to 1981, 93 percent goes either

for payments that are required by law--Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid--or

to meet President Carter's pledge to increase defense spending by 5 percent

annually: a commitment that the new administration believes to be

insufficient.<p>



<p>



<p>



If all the rest of the budget were held constant, the nation could save $12.6

billion, not enough to fund President Reagan's defense commitment or his tax

cut promises. But in fact, the budget is even less flexible. Much of the $5.8

billion non-defense increase, for example, consists of projects under

construction. To avoid the increase, if we legally could, we would have to

leave highways, bridges, dams, and major energy projects partially constructed.

Denying the almost $7 billion in salary increases may, at first, seem

reasonable, even attractive--after all, who likes bureaucrats?--until it is

recognized that almost 50 percent of these pay increases are for the military.

They are intended to improve our forces by increasing recruitment and by

slowing the loss of trained men and women. Moreover, I believe it is unfair to

deny salary increases to men and women who have made the government civil

service their career because we cannot cope with the difficulties posed by

other possible forms of constraint.<p>



<p>



<p>



Nonetheless, if we (1) funded all required programs, (2) continued defense

budget increases, and (3) held every other program in the federal budget

constant--no pay increases for civilian federal employees, no budget increases

of any kind for energy, or veterans' programs, or highways, or parks--we could

save $9.4 billion, or 1.4 percent of the federal budget.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is a simple but rarely understood fact that the basic structure of the

federal budget allows for very little change. To achieve even marginal

restraint in its rate of growth requires a president to take on important

interests who have good cases to make. It is almost impossible to explain to a

columnist or an angry constituent why a $10 million reduction matters in a $700

billion budget. Such a reduction seems nonpresidential, shortsighted,

arbitrary. Moreover, this same budget structure guarantees high rates of

increase--rates the nation cannot sustain--into the indefinite future.<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>

<b>The Budget Process and the President</b><p>



<p>



President Reagan will quickly discover that for truly important issues, such as

the budget, his power is extraordinarily limited. I believe that presidential

power is far too limited for the system's own good.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is understandable that it is so. The budget involves the basic stuff of

modern government, the issues of resource allocation the political system

really cares about. How much does the Department of Defense get? What water

project is built, or park bought? Will Congressman X get a federal building in

his district? Should funds go to Social Security increases, for solar power, or

for foreign aid? How much does the federal government owe the states, and why?

These are the issues local congressional districts, single-issue political

groups, major blocs in our society, focus on. They are the issues the system

handles best when resources are abundant; they will tie the system--presidents,

congress, constituencies, the media--into knots in the 1980s.<p>



<p>



<p>



The fact that these issues matter to the political system means that all the

principal institutions and actors in the system are part of the budget process.

Budget-making has become the organizing core of the political-economic

structure. It encompasses the President and the executive branch (only in

theory on the same side of most issues); Congress: its leadership, its members,

its committees (not even in theory on the same side); other levels of

government concerned about resources, and turf; major interest groups operating

with defiantly single-minded tunnel vision; and the media, as unable as any

other force to gain perspective on this overall process. The President, in

other words, has competition.<p>



<p>



<p>



The President may believe to his core that falling productivity requires more

private investment and that that requires federal spending restraint. But every

interest group in the country will tell the world that, on the contrary,

declining productivity requires Import Bank, job training, and health care.<p>



<p>



<p>



No one who was there will forget the moment in early 1977, after President

Carter had made a brief statement to a gathering of senators about his plans to

eliminate eighteen water projects, when Senator Russell Long, whose state stood

to lose two of these projects, stood up. "I," he said, "am Russell Long,

chairman of the Senate Finance Committee." His message was not difficult to

understand.<p>



<p>



<p>



The budget process is one of Washington's central rituals. It is a task of

immense scale and complexity, involving some of the most important questions

the political system faces. But, as Ronald Reagan will discover, it is not a

process that easily permits steady, consistent change. However, steady,

consistent change is exactly what we now require. The momentum an earlier

economy imparted to the budget cannot, and should not, be sustained today.<p>



<p>



<p>



By every relevant measure, the economy performs less well today than it did

from 1950 to 1970. Productivity growth is down. Growth in the capital stock is

down. Unemployment is up. Inflation is up. GNP growth is lower. These trends

began to become apparent in the early 1970s. They are deep-rooted and systemic,

and they limit the policy choices available to any administration. They make

the costs of error much higher; they narrow the room for maneuver; they impose

enormous caution. At unemployment and inflation rates of 7.5 percent and 12

percent, there are no good choices available to economic policy; what

alternatives do exist are fewer and riskier than when both rates are

substantially lower. Ronald Reagan will discover that a policy of marginal

change is forced upon him. There are no magic buttons.<p>



<p>



<p>



But the same trends that require so much caution also demand that change begin.

At some point we must choose between particular programmatic solutions to

particular problems and the health of the system as a whole. No one knows

precisely where that point is, but we are certainly closer to it today than we

were two decades ago. No one knows if a federal budget of 19 percent of GNP is

reasonable; one using 23 percent of GNP is not. No one knows at what point tax

burdens truly affect investment and productivity. From now on, presidents must

balance the benefits of specific actions against the effects of higher

deficits, or higher tax burdens, on the entire system.<p>



<p>



<p>



I believe that the budget is the fundamental domestic problem the presidents of

the 1980s will encounter. The President is the only figure in our political

system in a position to consider the most general choices. And if we are to

solve the problems posed by the budget, the President will have to explain them

to the American people, and spend a term correcting them.<p>



<p>



<p>



The stakes are enormous. Today's economy delivers less income and more

inflation to the average citizen than he expects, it subjects him more often to

the threat of unemployment, and it is more vulnerable to the outside shocks

that wars, revolutions, or oil markets can impose. If unchanged, the narrowing

economic and budgetary choices we face will alter prevailing views about

government and society.<p>



<p>



<p>



Sometime in the 1980s, the President must (1) recognize that the performance of

our economy imposes limits upon the government's use of the nation's resources,

(2) understand that the underlying, already committed momentum of federal

spending is inconsistent with desired economic performance, (3) develop a

policy that is compassionate about our ends but rigorous about our resources,

and (4) conceive a long-term strategy that brings about the necessary change

despite the weaknesses of the present process. Such a president will come to

terms with the internal contradictions of modern government, and will redefine

the modern presidency. He might well consolidate political power for a very

long time.<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>

<A NAME="endnote"></A>[<b>Endnote</b>: Wilbur Cohen was one of the founding drafters of the Social Security

Act. In the late 1960s, as a senior official (briefly secretary of HEW), he

played a major role in the initiation of the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

All are uncontrollable, entitlement, income-transfer programs, totaling about

$225 billion today.]<p>

<br>

</blockquote>

<hr>

<blockquote>

W. Bowman Cutter was executive director for budget at OMB under President Jimmy

       Carter.



</blockquote>



<p><hr>





<img src="../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1981 by W. Bowman Cutter.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-17</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B044-101</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/immigrat/Beckf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117200536 text/html 42214
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:05:25 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:58:34 GMT
Content-length: 42008
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Ordeal of Immigration in Wausau

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>April 1994</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



The Ordeal of Immigration in Wausau



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Roy Beck</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>Since 1970 the majority of population growth in the United States has come from

immigrants and their descendants. Demographers predict that this trend will

intensify in the new century if federal laws remain unchanged. For a look at a

possible American future, consider the fate of a small midwestern city</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>I</font>t all began simply enough, when a few churches and individuals in Wausau,

Wisconsin, decided to resettle some Southeast Asian refugees during the late

1970s. To most residents, it seemed like a nice thing to do. Nobody meant to

plant the seeds for a social transformation. But this small and private

charitable gesture inadvertently set into motion events that many residents

today feel are spinning out of control. Wausau--the county seat of the nation's

champion milk-producing county--has learned that once the influx starts,

there's little chance to stop it. Regardless of how many newcomers failed to

find jobs in this north-central Wisconsin city of 37,500, or how abraded the

social fabric became, the immigrant population just kept growing.<p>



<p>



In little more than a decade the immigrant families' children have come to make

up almost a quarter of the elementary schools' enrollment, crowding facilities

past their limits--and there's no peak in sight. The majority of immigrant

students are Southeast Asians, and most of these are from the nomadic Hmong

mountain tribes of Laos, which unsuccessfully tried to prevent a Communist

takeover of their homeland some twenty years ago. Seventy percent of the

immigrants and their descendants are receiving public assistance, because the

local labor market has not been able to accommodate them. Religious and other

private agencies--which, through federal agreements, create most of the refugee

streams into American communities--are pledged to care for the newcomers for

only thirty days.<p>



<p>



Native-born taxpayers must shoulder most of the rising costs of providing more

infrastructure, public services, teachers, and classrooms for the burgeoning

community of immigrants, who make up relatively little of the tax base. In 1992

alone the Wausau school district's property-tax rate rose 10.48 percent--three

times as much as taxes in an adjoining school district with few immigrants.<p>



<p>



"At first, most saw the new residents as novel and neat; people felt good about

it," Fred Prehn, a dentist and the father of two school-age children, told me

during a visit I made to Wausau some months ago. At the time we spoke, he was

the senior member of Wausau's school board. "Now we're beginning to see gang

violence and guns in the schools. Immigration has inspired racism here that I

never thought we had." Prehn accused religious agencies of swelling the

immigrant population without regard to the city's capacity for assimilation. He

said that the numbers and concentration of newcomers had forced the school

board into a corner from which busing was the only escape. English was becoming

the minority spoken language in several schools. Many native-born parents

feared that their children's education was being compromised by the

language-instruction confusion; many immigrant parents complained that their

children couldn't be assimilated properly in schools where the immigrant

population was so high. For two years citizens were polarized by the prospect

of busing--something that would have been inconceivable in 1980. Divisions

deepened last September, when the school board initiated the busing, and again

in December, when voters recalled Prehn and four other board members, replacing

them with a slate of anti-busing candidates. Community divisions are likely to

persist, since busing supporters threaten lawsuits if the new board ends the

busing.<p>



<p>



Even more of a shock has been the emergence of organized gang activity. Wausau

Detective Sergeant Paul Jicinsky told me that Asian gangs of thieves, centered

in St. Paul and Milwaukee, have recruited immigrant youths in Wausau. Most

small Wisconsin cities started Asian-refugee resettlement programs at the

prodding of government and religious leaders a decade or so ago, and most are

now part of a Crime Information Exchange that, Jicinsky said, had been

established almost exclusively to keep track of Asian gang activity in

Minnesota and Wisconsin. Hmong parents, lamenting that their difficulty with

English impedes their exercise of authority over their children, were at the

forefront of those asking the police to combat gang activity. The cycle of

community tensions spins round as native youths link up with outside white

gangs to respond to Asian gangs. Compared with the urban core of many big

cities, Wausau remains quite a peaceful place. But the comparison that matters

for most residents is with the Wausau that used to be. "We don't want to become

another California," a Wausau businessman told me. It's a fear often expressed

as residents grapple with the problems familiar to America's congested coastal

urban areas after nearly three decades of federally sponsored mass immigration

and refugee resettlement.<p>



<p>



At the same time, frustration grows among immigrants whose economic

assimilation is dramatically incomplete. That frustration, in combination with

resentment among natives over taxes and busing, seems to be the cause of

inter-ethnic violence among the young. The violence takes varied forms. A dance

at Wausau East High School, for instance, had to be canceled just as it was

starting because of a fight between immigrant and native girls which was

serious enough that an ambulance had to be called. Mayor John D. Hess, in a

newsletter to all residents, wrote, "Is there a problem with groups/gangs of

school age kids in Wausau? Emphatically, yes. The number of incidents involving

group violence leads all of us to believe that groups of school age kids are

organizing for whatever reasons. . . . Is there a problem relating to racial

tensions in Wausau? Emphatically, yes."<p>



<p>



The 1980 U.S. Census found Wausau to be the most ethnically homogeneous city in

the nation, with less than one percent of the population other than white.

"This was a very nice thriving community; now immigration problems have divided

the town and changed it drastically," Sandy Edelman, a mother of preschool-age

children, told me. "Neighborhood is pitted against neighborhood. When we were

moving here, a few years ago, I had this image of children walking to school.

It was paradise, we thought. We never thought it was possible there ever could

be busing in these schools."<p>



<p>



A Middle-Class Dream<p>



<p>



Although Wausau is not marked by splashy displays of wealth, the word

"paradise" crops up in wistful descriptions of the recent past by all types of

residents, including immigrants. They obviously aren't talking about some

idyllic South Seas utopia. What they have in mind seems to be a kind of

pragmatic middle-class American dream, in which labor produced a comfortable

standard of living in a community that was under the control of its residents

and where there existed a safe, predictable domestic tranquillity in which to

rear children and nearby open spaces for north-country recreation. It was a way

of life created by the descendants of German and Polish immigrants and New

England Yankee migrants, who by 1978 had spent roughly a century getting used

to one another and creating a unified culture.<p>



<p>



On my visit to Wausau, I found some anger. But the overwhelming emotion seemed

to be sadness about a social revolution that the community as a whole had never

requested or even discussed. While most residents spoke well of the immigrants

as individuals, they thought that the volume of immigration had crossed some

kind of social and economic threshold. Many sensed that their way of life is

slipping away, overwhelmed by outside forces they are helpless to stop.<p>



<p>



Wausau leaders describe their city prior to 1978 as one with no social tensions

and only traces of crime. Residents enjoyed a long tradition of progressive

politics, education, and business. A healthy match between the labor force and

well-paying jobs was the result of a diverse economy heavily reliant on the

Wausau Insurance Companies and the manufacture of windows, paper, cheese,

electric motors and generators, fast-food-outlet exhaust fans, and garden

tools.<p>



<p>



In the eyes of some residents, though, this "paradise" may well have been

boring. "This was a rather sterile community, and we needed ethnic diversity,"

says Phyllis A. Bermingham, the director of the county department that

administers the jobs program for welfare recipients. "I'm glad Wausau had major

refugee resettlement. It has added so much variety." Sue Kettner, who is in

charge of refugee services at a family-planning agency, says, "I have a dream

that Wausau will become uniquely cosmopolitan and take advantage of its

diversity." The until-recently "sterile" and homogeneous Wausau-area schools

now enroll students from Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Vietnam, China, the

Philippines, Korea, Japan, Norway, Albania, Egypt, the former East Germany, the

former Yugoslavia, and the former Czechoslovakia.<p>



<p>



The idea of a moratorium on immigration comes up often in discussions in

Wausau. But many people told me that they don't raise the idea in public,

because they believe that religious, media, and government leaders would

readily label any kind of criticism of immigration a manifestation of racism.

From 1924 until 1965 the nation's immigration laws prevented foreign migration

from reshaping the social landscape of American communities. The laws no longer

do. Wausau is but one example of the results of radically modified laws, and

many residents are astonished at the rapidity and relentlessness of change.<p>



<p>



From a few dozen refugees in 1978, Wausau's immigrant community grew to 200 by

1980, doubled from there by 1982, and doubled again by 1984. Since then it has

more than quintupled, to reach roughly 4,200. Even if the influx slows,

Southeast Asians may become the majority population in Wausau well within the

present residents' lifetimes. In this, Wausau is not unique but only an

indicator of the demographic effects of current immigrant streams in the nation

as a whole.<p>



<p>



First Stream: Refugee Resettlement<p>



<p>



When they agreed to become local resettlement sponsors, in the late 1970s,

Wausau congregations did not simply provide refuge for a few Hmong, Lao, and

Vietnamese families; they also inadvertently created a channel through which

the federal government could send a continuing stream of refugees. "In the

beginning we had no concept of what this would turn into," says Jean Russell, a

county official who helps administer public assistance to some 2,900 local

immigrants.<p>



<p>



Wausau residents discovered that the refugees invited to stay in their home

town soon began issuing their own invitations and serving as local sponsors for

their relatives. (Around the same time, the congregations ceased serving as

formal sponsors.) The cost of inviting was low, since government agencies paid

nearly all the new arrivals' expenses. And for the same reason the lack of jobs

was no deterrent to invitations. The first wave of refugees thus sent for

more.<p>



<p>



The resettlement stream shows no sign of drying up. The main source of Hmong

immigrants is refugee camps in Thailand that were set up nineteen years ago,

after the long Indochina wars. But there are still roughly 20,000 Hmong in the

Thai camps today. Thailand insists that it should not have to continue to

provide refuge.<p>



<p>



United Nations workers continue to move people out of the camps. Inasmuch as

there are already more than 40 million refugees and displaced persons

worldwide, the primary UN solution has to be repatriation to the refugees'

original home country. UN officials consider permanent resettlement in another

country to be a last resort. And they and others say that it is now safe for

the Hmong to return home. According to a State Department spokeswoman, "The

United States believes the Hmong can go back to Laos. We have been watching

[repatriations] all along. Our people investigate. There never has been one

verifiable story of anybody being persecuted for having been repatriated."<p>



<p>



But that does not mean that the Hmong resettlement into the United States will

stop. The spokeswoman explains that current U.S. policy leaves the decision up

to the Hmong in the camps. If they decide they don't want to go back home to

Laos, they will be put into a pool for American resettlement, even though there

is no reasonable suspicion that they face the threat of persecution in Laos.

(This is not unusual: the majority of refugees coming into the United States do

not meet a "last resort" criterion for resettlement.) If most of the Hmong

decide against returning to Laos, one U.S. official estimates, 19,000 may be

put into U.S. resettlement channels. That may not sound like much when compared

with the number of immigrants into the United States as a whole, but for a

community like Wausau, where refugees have already settled and where future

refugees will surely go, the potential impact of 19,000 is great.<p>



<p>



Second Stream: Secondary Migration<p>



<p>



Cities where refugees were resettled tend to be rewarded with a secondary

migration of refugees who have first been settled elsewhere in the United

States. "They heard how good it was here and moved from big cities, mostly from

California, because of the crime, unemployment, and overcrowding," Yi Vang, who

was first settled in Memphis and moved to Wausau in 1983, told me. Jean

Russell, of the county welfare department, emphasized in our conversation that

"they are really nice people," but nonetheless shook her head in consternation

at the additional burden that secondary migration puts on the social-service

system. "Why do so many come here?" she asked, and answered her own question:

"This is sort of the right-sized city. It is a wonderful place to live."

Wisconsin's generous welfare system is a big draw. A study by the Wisconsin

Policy Research Institute found that when the federal government began to cut

back its relief benefits to refugees, in 1982, large numbers of refugees sought

out the states that provided the best Aid to Families with Dependent Children

payments. Wisconsin became a popular destination.<p>



<p>



One branch of the secondary-migration stream that provides just a trickle now

will potentially add a considerable flow: As the refugees become citizens, the

1965 Immigration Act and its successors give them the right to bring in members

of their extended families through regular immigration channels. A continuous

chain of immigration can ensue, as it already has among many nationalities,

particularly in several coastal states.<p>



<p>



Third Stream: High Immigrant Fertility<p>



<p>



Natives in Wausau complain about the size of Hmong families. John Weeks, the

director of the International Population Center, at San Diego State University,

and a colleague have studied the Hmong and believe that their birth rate in

this country may be one of the highest of any ethnic group in the world.<p>



<p>



Unremarkable in Wausau would be a twenty-two-year-old Hmong woman with five

kids who comes to Family Planning Health Services for a pregnancy test and

contraceptive advice,  Sue Kettner says. She says that part of the reason for

the big families is the terrible misery and high death rate the Hmong suffered

during their long fight with the Communists. "I talked to one man whose parents

and four brothers and sisters were dead," Kettner told me. "He was having ten

children. He wasn't willing to contracept."<p>



<p>



Life in America boosts Hmong infant-survival rates beyond what they were in

Asia, Weeks says, and the Hmong have lower infant-mortality rates than

African-American natives because they have better access to social services and

their culture encourages positive prenatal behavior. "They don't smoke, drink,

or get fat during pregnancy," he says.<p>



<p>



"We find the girls' periods start as early as the third grade," says Lynell

Anderson, the coordinator of the Wausau schools' English as a Second Language

program. "We've had pregnant sixth-graders." Pregnancies in junior high school

are not uncommon. Although such cultural patterns would not be so noticeable in

Los Angeles or New York City, they are conspicuous and jarring to many Wausau

parents concerned about the future of the Hmong girls and about the effects on

their own children. Marilyn Fox, an ESL teacher, was quoted in the local

newspaper in 1992 lamenting pregnancies in her junior high. The article pointed

out that such pregnancies conflict directly with Wisconsin law, which

invalidates the consent to intercourse given by anyone under sixteen. And

anyone sixteen or older who impregnates an underage girl is guilty of a felony.

Fox and a colleague complained that none of the Hmong men or boys impregnating

the girls were being prosecuted. But many communities find it difficult to

impose American standards of behavior on people who claim membership in another

culture.<p>



<p>



At one point Anderson sat down with some other teachers to take an informal

look at the list of Hmong girls in high school. They calculated that 35 percent

were pregnant or already had children. That, of course, didn't include the

Hmong mothers who had dropped out of school. Few kids marry without having

children immediately, and the Hmong culture of arranged marriages ensures that

pregnant girls get married to somebody. Single-parent families--which some

officials identify as a growing social problem among Wausau natives--are

virtually nonexistent among the Hmong. The availability of infant formula may

also contribute to the high fertility: "We've heard the Hmong in Laos have kids

three years apart, because of breast-feeding. But here it is every one or one

and a half years, because women have moved to formula to be more modern,"

Kettner says. All the various factors add up to substantial population growth.

The Wausau Daily Herald cited a striking statistic from the 1990 Census which

illustrates the widely disparate fertility rates: 7.7 percent of

European-American natives in Wausau were under the age of six, as were 30

percent of residents of Southeast Asian origin.<p>



<p>



Both Weeks and Kettner see signs that the fertility rate is likely to come

down. "The Hmong Association has a very positive view of family planning,"

Kettner says, "because it sees the economic need for women to work." Tou Yang,

a young case manager for the county program that finds jobs for people on

welfare, says that high fertility forces some people to stay on public

assistance because a low-wage job won't replace lost welfare benefits, which

can be sizable for large families. Total public assistance (AFDC, food stamps,

Medicaid, and housing and energy subsidies) for a Hmong family can be worth

more than $20,000 a year, according to local officials. The welfare-use rate

for immigrants in the county is sixteen times as high as it is for natives.<p>



<p>



Yang says that some of the Hmong talk about having small families, but their

idea of small is generally four children. That is a bit higher than what the

demographer Leon Bouvier, in his book Fifty Million Californians?, says is the

Latino fertility rate, which is such an important contributor to that state's

rapid population growth. At four the population will still soar. A couple in a

four-child culture has eight times as many great-grandchildren as a couple in a

two-child culture. <p>



<p>



Population and Taxes<p>



<p>



In 1978 Wausau taxpayers were beginning to enjoy the fruits of the

replacement-level fertility that Americans had adopted during the emergence of

modern environmentalism and feminism, early in the decade. Gone were the days

of the Baby Boom and a perpetual need to build lots more schools, sewers,

streets, and so on. Government could direct its energy toward maintaining and

improving the quality of existing institutions. The student population had

stabilized and even declined some.<p>



<p>



But in 1994 the Wausau public school system is struggling to handle an increase

of more than 1,500 students in less than a decade, nearly all of them children

of immigrants. Although some schools were closed in the late 1970s, according

to Berland Meyer, the assistant superintendent of schools, everything available

is in use now, and classrooms are bursting at their proverbial seams. Taxpayers

at first refused to get back on the building treadmill, rejecting tax increases

in 1990. But they later approved one that led to the opening of a $15 million

middle school last fall. A $4.5 million addition to the old middle school has

just been completed as well. Meyer says that taxpayers still need to provide

another $3.5-$4.5 million for a new elementary school. Unfortunately, all this

construction will handle only immediate population growth. <p>



<p>



Wausau's experience, although relatively uncommon in the Midwest, is quite

common among American communities of the 1980s and 1990s. The majority of U.S.

population growth since 1970 has come from immigrants and their descendants.

They will probably contribute two thirds of the growth during this decade and

nearly all of it after the turn of the century if federal policies remain the

same.<p>



<p>



False Promises<p>



<p>



On a main road into downtown, an ALL-AMERICAN CITY sign reminds residents and

visitors alike that Wausau is not inherently incapable of rising to the

challenge of assimilating new residents. It was doing a fine job in 1984, when

it won the award commemorated by the sign.<p>



<p>



Nearby is another sign. WELCOME HOME TO WAUSAU, this one says, in the homespun

way of small cities. It is more than a cliche to say that many natives no

longer feel at home here, even as newcomers feel less than welcome. It is

noteworthy, however, that when natives told me longingly of a lost "home," most

seemed to refer not to the Wausau of 1978, before the refugee influx, but to

the Wausau of 1984, when the influx was at a level that still constituted a

delightful spice and community relations were harmonious.<p>



<p>



John Robinson, who was the mayor of Wausau from 1988 to 1992, acknowledges that

no government entity at any stage of Wausau's transformation talked to

residents about immigration rates or developed community-wide planning for

projecting future changes or deciding whether current trends should be allowed

to continue. "The Southeast Asian evolution in Wausau was not a planned

process," Robinson told me. "It was sort of a happening. Could the city have

planned differently? Yes. But until there is a real need staring you in the

face, you don't always reach out and address it." Robinson, who was a young

city councilman from 1974 to 1981 and a member of the legislature from 1981 to

1988, says he isn't sure the city could have changed anything even if officials

had spoken out against continuing federal refugee resettlement.<p>



<p>



In 1984 Wausau's welcome of Southeast Asians was still bighearted enough, and

its relations between cultures congenial enough, for Wausau to be designated an

All-American City. Youa Her, an educated, articulate leader of the early wave

of Hmong settlers, made one of Wausau's presentations to the national panel of

judges. The thirty-four-year-old woman's description of Wausau's generosity

reportedly left the panelists with tears in their eyes.<p>



<p>



Nobody is exactly sure when and how everything started to go sour. But it was

probably around the time of the award--certainly before Youa Her's tragic

death, in January of 1986, of tubercular meningitis. Newspapers from those

years reveal a community increasingly sobered by the realization that what had

appeared to be a short-term, private charitable act had no apparent end and was

starting to entail a lot of local public costs. Many natives resent that nobody

ever leveled with them about costs or where trends would lead, and they feel

they were misled by the local media and by federal, state, and religious

leaders.<p>



<p>



During the late 1970s residents had assumed that the congregations would cover

any costs of caring for the refugees they were sponsoring. After all, it was

their project. One sponsor reinforced that notion, telling a reporter,

"[Sponsorship] is not something that will last three days or three months or

three years. It can be something to last a lifetime."<p>



<p>



But the churches' financial commitment was actually rather shallow and

short-lived, as Jean Russell, of the county welfare department, explains it.

"At the beginning it was good Christian people wanting to do something for

somebody. What they did was pick the refugees up at the airport and drive them

to our office. The churches did help some, but the Hmong couldn't make it

without social services." (The Hmong are not unusual in this regard. A 1991

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services study indicated that nationwide

about two thirds of all Southeast Asian refugees who have arrived since 1986

remain on public assistance.)<p>



<p>



Wausau residents were assured, though, that they had no reason to worry about

increased welfare costs. In 1979 Susan G. Levy, the coordinator for the state's

resettlement assistance office, explained that local taxpayers would not be

adversely affected by private sponsors' generosity in inviting refugees,

because the federal government would pick up the welfare tab.<p>



<p>



As long as the flow was meager, Wausau's economy did fairly well at providing

jobs to keep the immigrants off the welfare rolls. "Refugees Are Very

Adaptable, State Officials Say" was one 1979 headline in the local paper. In

June of 1980 the paper reported that 80 percent of the city's refugees became

self-supporting within about three years: "Wausau's 200 Asian refugees doing

well, more sponsors needed."<p>



<p>



Promoters seemed certain that anything that was good and worked on one scale

would be even better on a larger scale. Milton Lorman, a state representative

from Fort Atkinson, urged Wisconsin to speed the flow of refugees. "The Statue

of Liberty symbolizes the historic support of this country for immigrant

rights," he said. "Wisconsin, as a state settled by immigrants, proves that

this dream works."<p>



<p>



But by May of 1982 an important threshold of danger had been crossed. One

headline read, "Most refugees now receiving AFDC, relief aid." The immigrant

population in Wausau had doubled since 1980, and the nation was in recession.

That spring the federal government cut back its welfare assistance to new

refugees. In the years that followed, federal and state governments--having

enticed communities to take in immigrants--withdrew more and more support,

leaving local taxpayers to bear most of the cost. "The federal government was a

silent partner and then became a nonexistent partner," John Robinson laments.<p>



<p>



Youa Her in late 1984 accepted the idea of economic limitations. "Anybody that

calls," she said, "we'll tell them to think it over and not to be so hurried

[to move to Wausau]." Choj Hawj, who was the elected leader of the Hmong

Association at the time, said, "When I look to the economy and the population

of Wausau city, we don't want any more to come until things look up."<p>



<p>



The former school-board member Fred Prehn recalls that Youa Her was also

concerned about proportionality and the effect of continued immigration on

social relationships. He says she thanked city leaders for how well Wausau had

provided for her people. But she warned them not to let the Hmong become more

than five percent of the population, Prehn says; if their numbers went much

higher, the natives might start to resent the immigrants, and hostility would

begin to replace hospitality.<p>



<p>



A month after Her's death Robert Nakamaru, a college professor, addressed the

proportionality issue at an event that was intended in part to soothe emerging

ethnic tensions. "When there are just a handful, they are seen as quaint,"

Nakamaru said of the immigrants. "But there is a point where a minority reaches

a critical mass in the perception of the majority. Wausau is getting close to

that point." Since then the city's immigrant population has quadrupled.<p>



<p>



Who Is Responsible?<p>



<p>



Nobody involved, apparently, has the authority to stop the refugee-resettlement

process if it becomes harmful to a community. Once a week representatives of

twelve voluntary agencies sit around a table in a New York office and divide up

some 2,000 refugees' names. The Administration has determined the overall

number in consultation with Congress. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization

Service has determined the eligibility of each refugee, and the refugees wait

in other countries until a voluntary agency picks up their names at the weekly

meeting and begins the process of resettlement.<p>



<p>



Federal officials say that refugees cannot be brought into the country unless a

voluntary agency is willing to settle them. The agencies sign an agreement

--voluntarily--with the State Department to resettle everybody the government

wants to bring in. At the time of the annual agreement could the agencies

pledge smaller numbers than the government wants to bring in? "That is

hypothetical; it never occurs," a State Department spokeswoman says. Actually,

the voluntary agencies tend to lobby the government to bring in many more

refugees nationwide than it chooses to each year. They receive compensation for

each refugee.<p>



<p>



Critics in Wausau say that the national Lutheran and Catholic refugee agencies

should refuse to help place anybody else in Wausau. Back when problems got

serious there, says Jack Griswold, of the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee

Service, the LIRS did stop sending refugees who were not joining relatives. But

80 percent of refugees entering the United States today are joining relatives.

And that, Griswold says, is why the LIRS continues to settle refugees in

Wausau, which he acknowledges has an overloaded infrastructure reminiscent of

California's: "If we insisted on settling them somewhere else, then they'd be

on the bus for Wausau the next day." The message to communities considering

sponsoring refugees for the first time is that once they create the channel,

voluntary-agency and federal officials have no way to restrict the flow--unless

all the agencies refuse to sign the agreement. But if the agencies did that,

they would be out of the business of settling refugees--which is, after all,

their reason for being.<p>



<p>



One remedy might be to take the decisions away from the voluntary agencies and

federal officials and put them in the hands of the local and regional entities

that pay most of the bills. A variation might be for Congress to poll cities

every year about how many immigrants and refugees they wanted and then offer

various incentives and controls to ensure that new arrivals settled in the

cities doing the inviting. This would democratize the process, allowing

communities to decide much of their own demographic fate.<p>



<p>



Nothing in the recent past suggests that Congress, the President, or federal

bureaucrats take American communities into consideration at all when setting

immigration numbers and policies. The U.S. Bureau of the Census has issued a

report projecting that given current immigration patterns, another 134 million

people will be added to the United States by 2050. No other factor in American

life is likely to have such a large effect on all the other factors. Yet not a

single congressional committee or presidential task force has shown any

interest in considering whether the nation should become what the Census Bureau

projects it will become given current policies. The outcome of those policies,

however, has been more accidental than deliberate. Eugene McCarthy recently

said that he and other Senate sponsors of the 1965 law that set mass

immigration into motion never intended to open the floodgates. The quadrupling

of annual immigration numbers has been an inadvertent and harmful result. Yet

over the past two decades the federal government has made no attempt to assess

the environmental, social, infrastructural, and economic consequences to

communities of such rapid federally induced population growth.<p>



<p>



A Cooling-Off Period<p>



<p>



For twenty-eight years Billy Moy's One World Inn served Chinese food in a

former train depot on an island in the Wisconsin River. Bridges connecting the

western half of Wausau to its downtown, on the east side, route traffic past

the depot. Before his retirement last year Billy Moy, who arrived in Wausau as

a Chinese refugee, sat with me in a darkened back room and told the kind of

colorful escape and success stories that traditionally have evoked warmhearted

responses from Americans. As a teenager he fled the Chinese Communists in 1951

and arrived by train in Wausau in 1952. After years of hard work, perseverance,

and saving, and six years in the U.S. Army reserves, Moy bought the island

depot and turned it into his restaurant in 1965.<p>



<p>



"I didn't know a word of English when I arrived," Moy told me. In that he was

like many of the refugees arriving today. But his reception and his freedom to

move into the economic mainstream were far different. Why? One explanation may

be that Moy had more education than the Hmong, whose people didn't even have a

written language until recent decades. More important, perhaps, he was a

novelty in Wausau, rather than a member of a mass of newcomers which natives

may find threatening. "I started with first-grade English and high school

math," Moy said. "People were very nice, especially the teachers. Kids never

harassed me. Never a bad word. I guess it was because I was the only one." Fred

Prehn went to school with Moy's son during the 1960s and 1970s and recalls that

the young Moy was the only minority student. That son now has an M.B.A. and is

a business analyst in Milwaukee.<p>



<p>



But today's economy has not offered as many opportunities to the large number

of refugees of the eighties and nineties, Mary C. Roberts, of the Marathon

County Development Corporation, told me. "The Southeast Asian unemployment rate

is high," Roberts said. "I think it is kind of irresponsible for churches to

bring more in without at least the equivalent of one job pledged per family.

Churches look at this just from the humanitarian angles and not the

practical."<p>



<p>



Various Wausau residents told me they favor a "cooling-off period" before more

refugees are resettled in their city. Few residents know it, but such a period

played a major role in creating the homogeneous Wausau they now consider the

norm. After the turn of the century, immigration caused a social upheaval in

Wausau. Back then the Germans and the Yankees were distinct ethnic groups,

neither of which found particular strength in diversity. From 1880 to the start

of the First World War, Germans streamed into Wausau, eventually overwhelming

its New England Yankee founders. Jim Lorence, a local historian, says that the

Germans became the predominant ethnic group around 1910. By the end of the

decade the immigrants had turned the once conservative Republican town into a

Socialist powerhouse. After the November, 1918, elections nearly every county

office and both of the county's seats in the state assembly were filled by

German-elected Socialists, Lorence says. Amid the political turmoil, natives

felt like foreigners in their own home town. Around the nation this period was

a time of sweatshops, worsening inner-city squalor, and ethnic hatred that

propelled the Ku Klux Klan to its greatest popularity ever. The KKK, however,

never got a strong foothold in Wausau, Lorence says.<p>



<p>



The federal government in 1924 responded to the problems in a way that had a

profound effect on the future development of Wausau and the nation. Congress

lowered immigrant admissions to a level more palatable to local labor markets,

according to the labor economist Vernon Briggs, of Cornell University. In his

recent book, Mass Immigration and the National Interest, he describes how the

1924 law gave the country a much-needed forty years to assimilate the new

immigrants. The KKK's power receded nationally, and cultural wounds began to

heal. Labor markets gradually tightened. That helped stimulate improvements in

technology and productivity which supported the middle-class wage economy that

Americans took for granted until the 1970s--when the labor supply ballooned

owing to renewed mass immigration, the entry of the Baby Boomers into the job

market, and a radical increase in the number of married women in the workplace.

Since then wages have declined and disparities of wealth have widened.<p>



<p>



After publishing his book, Briggs called for a moratorium on most immigration

until the federal government figures out how once again to tie the immigration

rate to the national interest. Among others independently urging a temporary

halt to immigration (with varying exceptions) are the Federation for American

Immigration Reform (FAIR); the National Hispanic Alliance; an Orange County,

California, grand jury; the University of California ecology professor Garrett

Hardin; Harold Gilliam, the environment columnist for the San Francisco

Chronicle; and the environmental group Population-Environment Balance. A 1992

Roper poll commissioned by FAIR found that a majority of Americans support the

idea of a moratorium. It and other polls have found that a majority of every

substantial ethnic group in the United States desires reduced immigration.<p>



<p>



Congress began to take part in the discussion about a cooling-off period late

last year, when Senator Harry Reid and Representative James Bilbray, both

Democrats from Nevada, introduced comprehensive immigration-reform   bills that

would cut the number of legal immigrants by roughly two thirds, to 300,000 and

350,000 a year. (The U.S. average from 1820 to 1965 was 297,000.) In February,

Representative Bob Stump, an Arizona Republican, introduced a "moratorium" bill

that would reduce immigration even further. The last time Congress cut the flow

of immigrants, in the 1920s, Wausau began to experience social healing, Jim

Lorence says. Though it took another thirty years for the major divisions

between the German immigrants and the native Yankees to disappear, the

disparate ethnic groups slowly began to achieve a unified and harmonious

culture--the paradigm of a recoverable paradise.<p>

<br>

<hr>

<br>



Roy Beck is the Washington editor of The Social Contract, a quarterly journal.

He is the author of <I>On Thin Ice: A Religion Reporter's Memoir</I> (1988) and 

<I>Prophets and Politics: A Handbook on the Washington Offices of the U.S. 

Churches</I> (1994).

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1994, The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; April, 1994; The Ordeal of Immigration in Wausau; 

Volume 273, No. 4;

page(s) 84-97

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-18</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B043-18</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/family/divorce.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117195746 text/html 24838
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:56:26 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:50:54 GMT
Content-length: 24632
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Divorce and the Family in America
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>November 1966</font><p>


						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Divorce and the Family in America

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Christopher Lasch</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>

	
	<font size=5>A</font>ll ages imagine themselves more enlightened--and at the same time, no 
doubt, more depraved--than their predecessors. Accordingly, we tend to 
exaggerate the moral distance between ourselves and the Victorians. The 
nineteenth century seems particularly remote to us in matters relating to 
sex. Since the turn of the century, the Western world is supposed to have 
undergone a "sexual revolution" which, for better or worse, irreversibly 
altered the way in which the relations between men and women were 
perceived. The "puritanism" of our ancestors, we suppose, gave way to 
sexual freedom--depravity, if you like--and the evidence for this 
proposition seemingly lies all about us: bikinis on the beach and skirts 
above the knee; obscenity on stage and screen; increasing license among 
adolescents; and, inevitably, in such a list, the "rising tide of 
divorce," as it used to be called. The fact that divorce is no longer 
novel or shocking merely testifies further, presumably, to the decay of 
the old order, the attitudes and institutions of an earlier time, which 
now evoke mingled nostalgia and contempt.<P>
Divorce no longer shocks, but it is still a public issue, largely because 
the recent liberalization of the New York law (which previously limited 
grounds of divorce to adultery but which now makes a two-year separation 
additional grounds for divorce), together with the agitation preceding 
this change, focused attention once again on the absurdity of the divorce 
laws not only of New York but of most of the other states. But if divorce 
remains a political and a legal issue, it has not yet become an issue for 
sustained historical reflection. Studies abound, but practically all of 
them take for granted that the growing divorce trend is part of the 
"sexual revolution"; a symptom, therefore, of the decay of the family and 
of the whole complex of assumptions with which the old-fashioned family 
was bound up. It is precisely this premise, however, that needs to be re
examined if we are to understand not only divorce and marriage but a whole 
series of related questions, which although they are not public questions 
in the conventional sense have an important bearing on the collective as 
well as the private lives of Americans. It is quite possible that easier 
divorce, far from threatening the family, has actually helped to preserve 
it as a dominant institution of modern society.<P>
Only alarmists would argue that the family is literally becoming extinct. 
The question is whether or not it has radically changed its nature, partly 
as a result of the ease and frequency of divorce and partly as a result of 
other developments of which the frequency of divorce is a consequence. It 
is on this point that both scholars and laymen almost universally agree. 
The Victorian family, they believe, was patriarchal, based on a double 
standard of sexual morality according to which fidelity was demanded of 
the wife while the husband pursued his extramarital career of sexual 
escapades among prostitutes or expensive mistresses, depending on his 
social class. People did not marry for love so much as for the convenience 
of the families concerned; all marriages were in this sense "arranged." 
Divorce or annulment, when they rarely occurred, took place at the 
pleasure of the husband, the wife having no recourse in the face of her 
husband's indifference, infidelity, or brutality except the solace of 
religion and the sewing-circle society of women, fellow victims of a 
system which consigned them, it seemed, to perpetual subordination. Such 
is the picture of Victorian marriage to which the modern family is held up 
in striking contrast. Nowadays, even a President's daughter marries for 
love, a fact of which it is one of the functions of journalism ritually to 
remind us. The affectional basis of marriage presumably works to make the 
partners equals. The growing divorce trend, whether one attributes it to 
romantic illusions surrounding marriage or to sexual difficulties or to 
any number of other explanations, must therefore reflect, in one way or 
another, the new equality of the sexes. The fact that most divorce 
proceedings are now instituted by women would seem to confirm the 
suspicion that the relaxation of old taboos against divorce represents 
still another victory for women's rights.<P>
Given these assumptions, the principal objection to the present laws is 
that they are an anachronism, a last refuge of Victorian prudery and 
superstition. The authors of a recent study of American divorce complain 
that "while a real social revolution has been going on affecting in a 
thousand ways the importance and relative permanence of marriage, the 
divorce laws have remained the same with only few minor exceptions" The 
law of divorce, in short, is seen as a notable instance of "cultural lag," 
and the most impressive argument for reform, accordingly, is that law 
should not be allowed to diverge so far from practice. Most Americans 
apparently believe that an unhappy marriage is worse than no marriage at 
all and that the best way of ending an unhappy marriage is divorce by 
mutual consent. Yet the laws compel them to undergo the distress and 
humiliation of an adversary proceeding in which one party has to file 
charges against the other, even to fabricate them, with disastrous moral 
and emotional consequences for everyone concerned.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Behind all this speculation lies an understandable concern about a set of 
laws which degrade what they purport to dignify: the ties of marriage. But 
there also lies a certain amount of confusion about the history of the 
family, the nature of the sexual revolution, and the relation to these 
developments of feminism and the "emancipation" of women. In the first 
place, the history of the family needs to be seen in much broader 
perspective than we are accustomed to see it. There are good reasons to 
believe that the decisive moment in the history of the Western family came 
not at the beginning of the twentieth century but at the end of the 
eighteenth, and that the Victorian family, therefore, which we imagine as 
the antithesis of our own, should be seen instead as the beginning of 
something new--the prototype, in many ways, of the modern household.<P>
If we forget for a moment the picture of the Victorian patriarch 
surrounded by his submissive wife, his dutiful children, and his houseful 
of servants--images that have come to be automatically associated with the 
subject--we can see that the nineteenth-century conception of the family 
departed in critical respects from earlier conceptions. Over a period of 
several centuries the family had gradually come to be seen as preeminently 
a private place, a sanctuary from the rough world outside. If we find it 
difficult to appreciate the novelty of this idea, it is because we 
ourselves take the privacy of family life for granted. Yet as recently as 
the eighteenth century, before the new ideas of domesticity were widely 
accepted, families were more likely to be seen "not as refuges from the 
invasion of the world," in the words of the French historian Philippe 
Aries, "but as the centers of a populous society, the focal points of a 
crowded social life." Aries has shown how closely the modern family is 
bound up with the idea of privacy and with the idea of childhood. Before 
these ideas were securely established, masters, servants, and children 
mingled indiscriminately, without regard for distinctions of age or 
rank.<P>
The absence of a clearly distinguishable concept of childhood is 
particularly important. The family by its very nature is a means of 
raising children, but this fact should not blind us to the important 
change that occurred when child-rearing ceased to be simply one of many 
activities and became the central concern--one is tempted to say the 
central obsession--of family life. This development had to wait for the 
recognition of the child as a distinctive kind of person, more 
impressionable and hence more vulnerable than adults, to be treated in a 
special manner befitting his peculiar requirements. Again, we take these 
things for granted and find it hard to imagine anything else. Earlier, 
children had been clothed, fed, spoken to, and educated as little adults; 
more specifically, as servants, the difference between childhood and 
servitude having been remarkably obscure throughout much of Western 
history (and servitude retaining, until fairly recently, an honorific 
character which it subsequently lost). It was only in the seventeenth 
century in certain classes--and in society as a whole, only in the 
nineteenth century--that childhood came to be seen as a special category 
of experience. When that happened, people recognized the enormous 
formative influence of family life, and the family became above all an 
agency for building character, for consciously and deliberately forming 
the child from birth to adulthood.<P>
These changes dictated not merely a new regard for children but, what is 
more to the point here, a new regard for women: if children were in some 
sense sacred, then motherhood was nothing short of a holy office. The 
sentimentalization of women later became an effective means of arguing 
against their equality, but the first appearance of this attitude seems to 
have been associated with a new sense of the dignity of women; even of 
their equality, in a limited sense, as partners in the work of bringing up 
the young. The recognition of "women's rights" initially sprang not from a 
revulsion against domestic life but from the cult of domesticity itself; 
and the first "rights" won by modern women were the rights of married 
women to control their own property, to retain their own earnings, and, 
not least, to divorce their husbands.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Until the middle of the nineteenth century in England and the United 
States, grounds for divorce were pretty much confined to adultery and 
cruelty. Divorces, moreover, had to be granted by legislative enactment. 
These provisions, making money and political influence requisite to 
divorce, effectively limited divorce to members of the upper classes; and 
except in rare cases, to upper-class men, eager for one reason or another 
to get rid of their wives. The new laws, still in effect today in most 
places, substituted judicial for legislative divorce and broadened grounds 
of divorce to include desertion. Both of these provisions, particularly 
the second, show that women were intended to be the principal 
beneficiaries of the change. That was certainly the result. Ever since the 
liberalization of the laws in the mid-nineteenth century, divorces have 
been easier and easier to obtain, and more and more of them have been 
granted to women.<P>
But those who see in these statistics a general dissolution of morals and 
a threat to the family misunderstand the dynamics of the process. The 
movement for earlier divorce owed its success to the very idea which it is 
supposed to have undermined, the idea of the sanctity of the family. 
Indeed, it is somewhat misleading to see divorce-law reform as a triumph 
even for women's rights, for the feminists could hardly have carried the 
day if their attack on the arbitrary authority of husbands had not 
coincided with current conceptions of the family--conceptions of the 
family which, in the long run, tended to subvert the movement for sexual 
equality. It was not the image of women as equals that inspired the reform 
of the divorce laws, but the image of women as victims. The Victorians 
associated the disruption of domesticity, especially when they thought of 
the "lower classes," with the victimization of women and children: the 
wife and mother abused by her drunken husband, deserted and left with 
children to raise and support, or forced to submit to sexual demands which 
no man had a right to impose on virtuous women. These images of oppression 
wrung ready tears from our ancestors. The rhetoric survives, somewhat 
diluted, in the form of patriotic appeals to home and motherhood, and 
notably in the divorce courts, where it is perfectly attuned, in fact, to 
the adversary proceeding.<P>
Judicial divorce, as we have seen--a civil suit brought by one partner 
against the other--was itself a nineteenth-century innovation, a fact 
which suggests that the idea of marriage as a combat made a natural 
counterpoint to the idea of marriage as a partnership. The combat, 
however, like the partnership itself, has never firmly established itself, 
either in legal practice or in the household itself, as an affair of 
equals, because the achievement of legal equality for the married woman 
depended on a sentimentalization of womanhood which eroded the idea of 
equality as easily as it promoted it. In divorce suits, the sensitivity of 
judges to the appeal of suffering womanhood, particularly in fixing 
alimony payments, points to the ambiguity of women's "emancipation." 
Sexual equality, in divorce as in other matters, does not rest on a 
growing sense of the irrelevance, for many purposes, of culturally defined 
sexual distinctions. It represents, if anything, a heightened awareness of 
these distinctions, an insistence that women, as the weaker sex, be given 
special protection in law.<P>
From this point of view, our present divorce laws can be seen as 
faithfully reflecting ideas about women which, having persisted into the 
mid
twentieth century, have shown themselves to be not "Victorian" so much as 
simply modern, ideas which are dependent, in turn, on the modern obsession 
with the sanctity of the home, and beyond that, with the sanctity of 
privacy. Indeed, one can argue that easier divorce, far from threatening 
the home, is one of the measures--given the obsession with 
domesticity--that has been necessary to preserve it. Easy divorce is a 
form of social insurance that has to be paid by a culture which holds up 
domesticity as a universally desirable condition: the cost of failure in 
the pursuit of domestic bliss--especially for women, who are discouraged 
in the first place from other pursuits--must not be permitted to become 
too outrageously high.<P>
We get a better perspective on modern marriage and divorce, and on the way 
in which these institutions have been affected by the "emancipation" of 
women and by the "sexual revolution," if we remember that nineteenth
century feminism, at its most radical, passed beyond a demand for "women's 
rights" to a critique of marriage itself. The most original and 
striking--and for most people the least acceptable--of the feminists' 
assertions was that marriage itself, in Western society, could be 
considered a higher form of prostitution, in which respectable women sold 
their sexual favors not for immediate financial rewards but for long-term 
economic security. There was "no sharp, clear, sudden-drawn line," they 
insisted, between the "kept wife," living "by the exercise of her sex 
functions alone," in Olive Schreiner's words, and the prostitute. The 
difference between prostitution and respectability reduced itself to a 
question not of motives but of money. The virtuous woman's fee was 
incomparably higher, but the process itself was essentially the same; that 
is, the virtuous woman of the leisure class had come to be valued, like 
the prostitute, chiefly as a sexual object: beautiful, expensive, and 
useless-
in Veblen's phrase, a means of vicarious display. She was trained from 
girlhood to bring all her energies to the intricate art of pleasing men: 
showing off her person to best advantage, mastering the accomplishments 
and refinements appropriate to the drawing room, perfecting the art of 
discreet flirtation, all the while withholding the ultimate prize until 
the time should come when she might bestow it, with the impressive 
sanction of state and church, on the most eligible bidder for her "hand." 
Even then, the prize remained more promise than fact. It could be 
repeatedly withdrawn or withheld as the occasion arose, and became, 
therefore, the means by which women learned to manage their husbands. If, 
in the end, it drove husbands to seek satisfactions elsewhere, that merely 
testified to the degree to which women had come to be valued, not simply 
as sexual objects, but precisely in proportion to their success in 
withholding the sexual favors which, nevertheless, all of their activities 
were intended to proclaim.<P>
The defenders of the conventional types of prostitution, meanwhile, did 
not fail to see the connection between prostitution and respectability; in 
the words of William Lecky, the historian of European morals, the 
prostitute was "ultimately the most efficient guardian of virtue" because 
she enabled virtuous women to remain virtuous. "But for her the 
unchallenged purity of countless happy homes would be polluted, and not a 
few who with the pride of their untempted chastity think of her with an 
indignant shudder, would have known the agony of remorse and despair." The 
same reasoning, as we have seen, led to the nineteenth-century reform of 
the divorce laws. The purity of the home demanded just such outlets as 
prostitution and divorce if it was to survive intact and "untempted."<P>
The central features of this system of sexual relationships persist into 
the twentieth century essentially unchanged. Courtship is more than ever a 
"sex tease," in Albert Ellis' words, and marriage remains something to be 
managed--among other ways, by the simultaneous blandishment and 
withdrawal, on the part of the wife, of her sexual favors. Let anyone who 
doubts the continuing vigor of this morality consult the columns of advice 
which daily litter the newspapers. "Dear Abby" urges her readers, before 
marriage, to learn the difficult art of going far enough to meet the 
demands of "popularity" without "cheapening" themselves (a revealing 
phrase); while her advice to married women takes for granted that husbands 
have to be kept in their place, sexually and otherwise by the full use of 
what used to be called "feminine wiles." These are prescriptions, of 
course, which are not invariably acted upon; and part of the "sexual 
revolution" of the twentieth century lies in the increased publicity which 
violations of the official morality receive, a condition which is then 
taken as evidence that they are necessarily more frequent than before. 
Another development, widely mistaken for a "revolution in morals," is a 
growing literal-mindedness about sex, an inability to recognize as sexual 
anything other than gross display of the genitals. The sexual advances of 
the respectable woman, accordingly, have come to be more blatant than they 
used to be, a fact predictably deplored by alarmists, themselves victims 
of the progressive impoverishment of the sexual imagination, who 
erroneously confuse respectability with the concealment rather than the 
withholding, of sexuality. We should not allow ourselves to be misled by 
the openness of sexual display in contemporary society. The important 
thing is the use to which sexuality is put. For the woman, it remains, as 
it was in the nineteenth century, principally a means of domination; for 
the man, a means of vicarious display.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Current concern about divorce springs from two different kinds of 
considerations. On the one hand, the prevalence of divorce seems to 
reflect a ''breakdown" of marriage. Traditionalists demand, in the face of 
this condition, a tightening of the divorce laws; reformers, a more 
"mature" approach to marriage. On the other hand, a second group of 
reformers is alarmed not by the breakdown of marriage but by the hypocrisy 
surrounding divorce. They would make marriage a completely private matter, 
terminable, in effect, by mutual consent--a change which might or might 
not accelerate the "decline of the family," but which, they argue, would 
better accord with our pretensions to humanity than the present laws.<P>
The plea for more stringent legislation encounters the objection that laws 
governing morals tend to break down in the face of large-scale 
noncompliance. In New York, the old divorce law did not prevent people 
from getting divorces elsewhere or from obtaining annulments on the 
slightest suspicion of "fraud." The argument that there would be fewer 
divorces if there were fewer romantic illusions about marriage expresses 
an undoubted truth; but it is not clear, as the argument seems to assume, 
that there is something intrinsically undesirable about a high rate of 
divorce. Most reformers, when confronted with particular cases, admit that 
divorce is better than trying to save a bad marriage. Yet many of them shy 
away from the conclusion toward which these sentiments seem to point, that 
one way of promoting more mature marriages might be to make marriage as 
voluntary an arrangement, both as to its inception and as to its 
termination, as possible. The definition of marriage as a contract, 
enforceable at law, probably helps to promote the conception of marriage 
as a combat, a tangle of debts and obligations, which figures so 
prominently in American folklore. Revision of the law, particularly the 
divorce law, would not by itself change popular ideas of marriage, but it 
would at least deprive them of legal sanction.<P>
Even now, living apart is grounds for divorce in eighteen states and in 
Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, the period of time varying from 
eighteen months in Maryland to ten years in Rhode Island. Barring a 
general wave of reaction, a possibility which should not by any means be 
discounted, other states can be expected to follow their example. In every 
case, reform will be accompanied by dire predictions of the disintegration 
of domestic values, but the family has outlived such predictions before. 
Far from being a survival of some earlier historical period, the idea of 
the family as sacred and inviolate, the cornerstore of society and the 
seat of virtue, is a characteristically modern idea bound up with the 
"privatization" of experience and with the tendency of the middle class, 
in Aries's words, "to organize itself separately, in a homogeneous 
environment, among its families, in homes designed for privacy, in new 
districts kept free from all lower-class contamination." This self
segregation of the middle class may have been, in the long run, a 
disaster; on the other hand, it may turn out to have been, precisely 
because it fostered a new respect for the family, an important 
countervailing influence to the growth of the state. In either case, the 
family, desirable or deplorable, is hardly threatened by the increase in 
divorce.
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1966, Christopher Lasch.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"Divorce and the Family in America";
The Atlantic Monthly, November, 1966, issue.
Volume 218, number 5 (pages 57-61).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-19</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA090-000973-B001-60</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/religion/cmrel.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117202424 text/html 35201
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:24:20 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:06:59 GMT
Content-length: 34995
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html> 

<head> 





												<!--ARTICLE TITLE-->



<title> 

Murphy on Religion:

St. Ambrose Lecture



</title> 



</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff>





<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

	<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 BORDER=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>



</center>





<p>





												<!--ARTICLE CATEGORY-->





												<!--DATE-->

<font size=+2><b>Religion Commentary</b>

 -- 

</font><font size=3><i><b>April 7, 1994</i>

</font></b>





												<!--BYLINE-->





<br><font size=4><b>by <a href ="../../../about/people/cmbio.htm"> Cullen Murphy</b></font></a>

	







			<!--SPACER-->

<p>

<img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" vspace=10>





<center>



												<!--TITLE-->

	<h1>

	Religion and the Cultural Elite:<br>

	<font size=3>A lecture given at Saint Ambrose University,

in Davenport, Iowa.</font>

	</h1>



												<!--EPIGRAPH (?)-->

	







<pre>





</pre>



</center>



												<!--TEXT-->



<blockquote>



												



<font size=5>I</font>

noted in the press release from Saint Ambrose that went out far and

wide--urbi et orbi as the Pope would say--in advance of this occasion that a

previous speaker in this series was the Rev. Robert Drinan. I have met Robert

Drinan only once, but the occasion was unforgettable. As the writer of the

comic strip Prince Valiant, I was asked a few years ago to come to Capitol Hill

and present an original page of the strip to the venerable Congressman Claude

Pepper, who was celebrating his eighty-fifth birthday. Congressman Pepper was

apparently a big fan of the strip, which had begun publication the very month

and year--February of 1937--in which he moved to Washington. I had expected a

small and informal private gathering, but it turned out that the presentation

took place in a baronial hall in front of most of the Senate and House of

Representatives. Faced with what was, in effect, a joint session of Congress,

my knees turned to jelly. I had a distinct sense of fumbling through my

remarks, parched tongue and palsied hand, and at last the blessed moment came

when I could slink from the podium and climb under a rock. As I walked away,

Congressman Robert Drinan, as he was at the time, stepped forward and held out

his hand. He said: "You did great." It was a lie--and, I would contend, grounds

for sainthood.<p>







I.<p>







As I was contemplating coming out to Davenport this week, I realized that the

coming Sunday would be Whit Sunday, and my memory was suddenly jolted back

exactly thirty years to a spring weekend in Ireland, when the Irish boy scout

troop to which I belonged escaped from Dublin for its annual Whit Camp. We

traveled north to the banks of the Boyne River, the place where, in 1690, the

forces of William of Orange, a Protestant, had defeated those of King James II,

a Catholic, in a battle that effectively put an end to Stuart claims to the

English throne, and that also ratified--once and, perhaps, for all--the break

of the English church from the church of Rome. The Catholic people of Ireland

had, of course, been siding with James, and the aftermath of the Battle of the

Boyne saw the institution of harsh restrictions on the Catholic Church in

Ireland. On that Whit Sunday weekend thirty years ago we decided to replay the

Battle of the Boyne in the form of a game of capture the flag, and the action

ranged for hours over field and stream. In the end, the forces of William of

Orange proved victorious yet again. The result seems to illustrate one of

Ireland's problems: Even when you give history a chance to rewrite itself, it

can't.<p>







I bring this incident up because sectarian conflicts in Europe, like the one

that flared on the Boyne, were always very much on the mind of the man who, as

much as any other, was responsible for enshrining religious toleration as a

constitutional principle in the United States of America. I refer, of course,

to Thomas Jefferson. He could hardly avoid knowing about how religious strife

had for two centuries been tearing Europe apart. The William who prevailed at

the Boyne was the William of William and Mary, Jefferson's alma mater. The

Church of England was the established church in the Virginia of Jefferson's

youth, and dissenters were frequently persecuted. Heresy was punishable by

death. Denial of the Trinity was punishable by imprisonment on the third

offense--a forbear, it would seem, of "three strikes you're out." The result

was a growing sectarian fractiousness that the mature Jefferson could see would

doom an increasingly diverse state and nation. After independence was declared,

he worked for ten years to pass Virginia's Statute of Religious Freedom, which

he had largely drafted. "The legitimate powers of government," Jefferson wrote,

"extend to such acts only as are injurious to others. But it does me no injury

for my neighbor to say there are twenty gods or no god. It neither picks my

pocket nor breaks my leg." When a compromise was proposed, essentially changing

the concept "freedom" to the concept "toleration," Jefferson dug in his heels

and refused, and prevailed. The statute as he had drafted it became law in

1786, and it became the model for the clause in the First Amendment of the Bill

of Rights guaranteeing the free exercise of religion and the separation of

church and state. Jefferson was passionate about this issue. When he wrote the

epitaph for his tombstone, Jefferson did not mention that he had been President

of the United States. He did say that he was the author of the Virginia Statute

of Religious Freedom. <p>







Jefferson was a child of the Enlightenment, and his own religious views as an

adult, which he tended to keep to himself, never conformed neatly with those of

any denomination. But on grounds of principle he was welcoming of religious

pluralism: The way to truth, he believed, was to let all beliefs

contend--freely, and out in the open. The practical side of Jefferson also

acknowledged that, because religion is in fact a social force, it must be

socially accomodated. Whatever the pillars of his thinking, Jefferson, a member

in good standing of what today would be called the "cultural elite," held

religion to be at once salubrious and relevant.<p>





There are many reasons why one might want Jefferson around today. I find my

thoughts turning to him, for example, every time I start thinking about the

addition I must soon add to my house. But I would particularly like to have

Jefferson's opinion of what has happened to the cultural elite in our own time.

Let me concede at the outset that the term cultural elite itself is

bothersomely vague. Nor was its reputation enhanced when, a few years ago, it

became one of the whipping boys of Vice President Quayle. But one needs to give

some sort of name to that group of people in America who populate academe and

the news media and the entertainment industries, and who do so much to shape

the national agenda and set a national tone. One could use the British term

"the chattering classes," but that has a connotation of frivolousness that is

not appropriate. "Intellegentsia" won't do--it's too narrow, and in any event

America doesn't really have one in the European sense. So we're stuck, I

suppose, with "the cultural elite." Still, whatever one thinks of the term, the

group being referred to is a real one. And the attitude toward religion in

general that has long predominated within it is one toward which Jefferson

would not have been sympathetic. It is an attitude toward religion

characterized at times by a blend, varying with the circumstances, of

ignorance, suspicion, and hostility. At other times--and this is perhaps the

worst stance of all--it is characterized by an impermeable indifference, a

dismissal, as being profoundly irrelevant, of the religious enterprise itself.

<p>







There is, I might add, plenty of ignorance, suspicion, hostility, and

indifference running in the other direction as well. And the result, as Garry

Wills has observed in his book <i>Under God</i>, is not a happy one. "Clearly,

in our society," he writes, "two large groups are talking past one another. One

fails to see legitimacy in religious values. The other fails to see legitimacy

in irreligion." The fact that these two large groups are talking past one

another is not a trivial matter. It has consequences--consequences for the

nature of human inquiry and moral discourse; consequences, in practical terms,

for the way in which we as a pluralistic polity deal with a host of pressing

national concerns. The United States is not, after all, Western Europe, where

religious alienation runs through society at all levels--is almost a form of

common ground. Here, religious faith remains powerful. According to a recent

Gallup Poll, nine out of ten Americans say they have never doubted the

existence of God. Is it conceivable that without a conversation between the

cultural elite and the rest of America we will ever be able to deal effectively

with such things as the crisis of the family, children having children,

abortion, violence, poverty, welfare, genetic engineering, the dilemmas of

medical ethics, and the pervasive national sense of having turned down the

wrong path? There are some, perhaps many, in each group who would say that

their group does not need the other. I believe that they are wrong. <p>







During the past year I have been privileged to participate in a faculty seminar

at Boston College's Jesuit Institute devoted to these very issues. There are

twenty of us all told, drawn for the most part from the Boston College

community--not only from the department of theology but also the departments of

chemistry, history, economics, philosophy, psychology, sociology, and

anthropology. The religious traditions from which we are drawn include Judaism

and Islam as well as various forms of Christianity. The subject of the seminar

has the somewhat ungainly formal title: "The Alienation of Intellectuals From

Religion Within American Culture," which doesn't even have the grace to compose

itself into a memorable acronym. That alienation of the cultural elite on a

vast scale has occurred can hardly be a matter of serious dispute. Doesn't the

message come through many times every day in what we read and hear and watch on

TV? In academe, survey data drawn from interviews with faculty have documented

the estrangement from religion time and time again; as George Marsden pointed

out in his presidential address at the American Academy of Religion last fall,

outside of divinity schools and institutions with a religious affiliation,

voicing a religious perspective is just not intellectually respectable. In some

circles, religiosity constitutes in addition an embarrassing lapse of taste. I

remember William F. Buckley catching some of the flavor of this attitude when

he remarked years ago during an interview with Malcolm Muggeridge that "if you

mention God more than once at a dinner party you're not invited back." <p>







There is no secret about where the origins of this division between religion

and irreligion within our culture ultimately lie. Tomes have been written about

the forces set into motion by the Enlightenment, by the transforming power of

rationalism and science and technology. To appreciate the effect of all this on

one person's actual life, one need look no further than <i>The Education of

Henry Adams</i>, which in autobiographical form offers a microcosm of what was

happening to America's elites on a larger national canvas. Born into a Puritan

world view, Adams would die a secular child of the twentieth century. Giving

himself symbolic status, Adams writes of himself at one point, in the third

person: "He was in a fair way to do himself lasting harm, floundering between

worlds past and worlds coming."<p>







If the origins of the division are plain, not so the developments in our own

time that act to keep the chasm wider than it needs to be. Our discussions in

the alienation seminar turn frequently to these developments. I will mention

three.<p>







Number one: the virtual disappearance of that species known as the public

intellectual: people like Dewey and Trilling and Howe and Niebuhr who were

generalists and inhabited the outside world--even made some of their living

there--as much as or more than they inhabited academe. They displayed a broad

knowledge of the culture as a whole, of all its parts, and wrote widely of what

they saw in a style that Irving Howe once characterized as "free-lance dash,

peacock strut, and knockout synthesis." One thinks of them almost as circuit

riders, keeping disparate segments of the national culture--segments that

sometimes may not have been talking--informed about one another. Whatever their

conclusions, they engaged moral and religious considerations with respect, and

helped preserve the public role of these things. As recently as 1950

<i>Partisan Review</i> could devote portions of four consecutive issues to

commentary by some fifty prominent figures on the subject "Religion and the

Intellectuals." Hannah Arendt. John Dewey. Robert Graves. Alfred Kazin. Paul

Tillich. Allen Tate. Dwight Macdonald. Can one even imagine such an undertaking

now? The public intellectuals are mostly gone, the victims of many things.

Victims, for one, of a popular culture that no longer supports very many of the

kinds of publications that once helped support the intellectuals. Victims, too,

of an academic culture that puts too much emphasis on narrow specialization,

too little emphasis--or perhaps I should say, too much penalty--on the value of

public outreach.<p>







Number two: the expansion of the functions of government. As the role and reach

of the state has grown ever more pervasive, working its way into ever more

areas of life, the opportunities for secular authority to come into

contact--and therefore often into conflict--with religious belief have

multiplied rapidly. This is the stuff of newspaper headlines, headlines about

school prayer, about curriculum, about the legality of ritual practices, about

forcing parents to seek medical care for a child. When such issues ignite, they

must be resolved, and as Stephen Carter has shown in his recent book <i>The

Culture of Disbelief</i>, the drift of jurisprudence has hardly been

accomodating to religion, has tended to push it off into some private realm,

and has helped promote the evolution of the constitutional guarantee of freedom

of religion--designed to protect religion from the state--into a right of

freedom from religion. I take no position here on specific cases, but simply

note that the situation in general is hardly a formula for mutual

understanding.<p>







Number three: the abdication of the Fourth Estate. Writing recently in the

<i>Columbia Journalism Review</i>, D. Patrick Miller called religion "the blind

spot of American journalism." His assessment is for the most part accurate, and

I would like to go on to explore attitudes within the media in some detail.<p>







II<p>







In the alienation seminar I represent something of an anomaly, being the only

participant who is not an academic. I have worked with scholars and written

about scholarship all my professional life, but it was for the sensibility of a

journalist that I was asked to participate, and it is that sensibility which

underlies whatever contribution I make. Because of its bridging function--its

fundamental mission to make known to the many the ideas and activities of the

few--the news media is an essential component of the cultural elite. It

provides one important means through which the attitudes of intellectuals are

woven into the fabric of our national personality. It also provides the filters

through which news of reality passes on its way to everyone else--if the news

is deemed fit to be let through.<p>







The world of journalism is, of course, as diverse as the world of academe,

probably more so. It has some extraordinary highs and some truly appalling

lows. It has countless specialty niches. But if one looks at what can be

regarded as the mainstream elite media--urban newspapers and urban TV and radio

stations, and perhaps a hundred national magazines--one can make some general

observations about the undeniable gulf that lies between journalism and

religion, and why it exists.<p>







To begin with, we in the media are still living to some extent, as far as

religion is concerned, with the legacy of the Scopes Trial, in 1925. It may

seem odd that an event almost seven decades in the past should still exert an

influence. What is sometimes forgotten is that the trial was one of the first

examples of what today is called a media circus. At issue, of course, was the

teaching of the theory of evolution in a public school, in defiance of a

Tennessee statute. Network radio was in its infancy, and the trial was

broadcast nationwide. Reporters descended on Dayton, Tennessee, by the

hundreds. Among them, of course, was H.L. Mencken, an iconic figure with a zest

for mockery whom some in journalism still seek to emulate. The Scopes Trial was

one of those events that works as a powerful fixative. In this case, it ensured

a certain mindset, ensured that religion would always be approached in the

knowledge that it could go strange on you at any time. <p>







The Scopes Trial is also important for one of the object lessons it offers: how

profoundly the press can get a story wrong. As Garry Wills has pointed out, two

worlds had collided, but for decades the press failed to appreciate the true

nature of the impact. Ask reporters even today what the result of the trial had

been and you'll likely hear that William Jennings Bryan and the Fundamentalists

had been made, once and for all, into national laughingstocks. Well, perhaps in

some quarters. But most people forget that Scopes was found guilty, and the

Tennessee law was upheld. Also, soon afterwards, laws similar to the Tennesee

statute were introduced in more than a dozen states. (In the Rhode Island

legislature, by the way, hearings on the anti-Darwin bill were held,

appropriately, by the Committee on Fish and Game.) Meanwhile, regardless of

legislation, the teaching of evolution, which had been going on for decades,

was more or less completely phased out of public schools by nervous educators.

It would not return until the 1960s. <p>







There are many reasons why the press just doesn't "get" religion. Quite apart

from the psychological legacy of the past, there is the matter of present-day

demographics: that is, of the type of people who hold influential reporting,

editing, and management positions in the print and broadcasting media. These

people do not represent a broad cross-section of the American population. They

are professional skeptics. They are also by and large irreligious, and if they

have a sectarian affiliation at all, it is nominal. Survey data show that only

about 8 percent of those in the elite media attend religious services with any

regularity, and that 86 percent attend "seldom or never." I bring this up not

as evidence of any bias, but simply to explain why the base level of knowledge

is sometimes so low. Peter Steinfels, the religion correspondent of <i>The New

York Times</i>, tells of how, some years back, after the U.S. bishops had

released a draft of their pastoral letter on the economy, a business reporter

at the <i>Times</i> came to him asking for some general guidance on a story he

planned to write on the subject. Steinfels said, By all means. "Okay," said the

reporter. "First, what exactly is a bishop?"<p>







The conceptual structure that the media demand of reality, or impose on it,

exacerbates the situation. Daily journalism in particular depends on a limited

number of templates in order to quickly give structure and meaning to a story.

Of all those templates, the real workhorse is conflict: us versus them,

veterans versus upstarts, good guys versus bad guys. From a journalistic point

of view, the fact that 120 million Americans may have attended a religious

service on a particular weekend will never be news, even though it is a

defining feature of American life; it's not news because the same thing

happened last weekend and will happen again next weekend. What tends to get

reported on instead--accounts, indeed, for some 60 percent of all news about

the Catholic Church, for example, according to a study by Robert Lichter and

his colleagues at the Center for Media and Public Affairs--is abortion,

dissent, homosexuality, pedophilia, and the church's role in American politics.

The coverage of other denominations follows the same pattern. It came as no

surprise that the only news reported from last year's annual meeting of the

Southern Baptist Convention was that someone--quickly disavowed by Baptist

officials--had come up with a formula for determining what percentage of people

in a given community would end up going to hell, and was publicizing county by

county estimates for the state of Alabama. Stories like this have a

disproportionate impact because, taken as a whole, there is so little religion

reporting to begin with. Only 50 of the nation's 1,500 daily newspapers have

full-time religion correspondents. A few years ago I had occasion to measure

the amount of space in the <i>New York Times</i> index devoted to the category

"Religion and Churches" and found it to be equivalent in size to the category

"Teeth and Dentistry." <p>







III.<p>







Having said all this, it is only fair to ask whether there have been any

developments in recent times that work against the general tendency I have been

describing, the tendency of religion and the cultural elite to pass like two

ships in the night--when they're not colliding like two ships in the night. I

believe that there have been such developments on several widely varied fronts.

<p>







The first front is the world outside what we know as "the West": It has grabbed

hold of religion and is shaking it in our faces. In the Balkans, in the

Caucusus, in North Africa, in Central Asia, on the Indian subcontinent,

sectarian conflict is a hallmark of our time. In the summer, 1993, issue of the

journal Foreign Affairs the political scientist Samuel P. Huntington wrote an

article called "The Clash of Civilizations" which created a considerable stir

within the international-affairs community. Huntington's argument is too

complex to be given justice here, but his major point is that the chief source

of conflict in the world in the future will not be the economic or ideological

differences between nation states but the cultural conflicts between

civilizations. And in his definition of civilization, he fingered religion--he

says this in two places--as far and away the most important component.<p>







And yet, as Bryan Hehir, another person who has preceded me to this podium,

noted in the course of a recent discussion of Huntington's article during a

meeting of our Boston College seminar, the discipline of international

relations, which is his field, had developed no language for talking

effectively about religion. In this respect, said Hehir, the discipline had, in

his words, been "immaculately conceived." In standard international-affairs

textbooks--those of Hans Morgenthau and Raymond Aron, for example--religion is

scarcely given any treatment at all. The assumption in political science was

that as societies modernized, became more developed, they would also become

more secular. But as Huntington pointed out, one cannot survey the last decades

of the twentieth century and find a ringing endorsement of that assumption. In

many places, perhaps most, the idea that religion should have nothing to do

with the running of a polity is simply incomprehensible. And so, Huntington

asks, Is it possible to understand the world while maintaining a view of

religion as a purely private matter, as we so often do in the West? And his

answer is: No, we cannot. Whether one is sympathetic to religion or not

sympathetic to it, one must understand religion in order to understand the

world. One must understand, too, that religion is not like economics, is not

like politics. In today's world, it is generally religion that people are

showing themselves willing to die for. There have been no martyrs on behalf of

the Laffer Curve.<p>







Huntington's article aroused fierce debate on many specific points, and the

debate filled the next two issues of Foreign Affairs. But his larger

proposition about religion seems to me unassailable. Huntington has helped to

make the discussion of religion legitimate--religion outside our borders, yes,

but, as he emphasized in a tart rejoinder to his critics, not only outside our

borders. The multiculturalism being celebrated at Saint Ambrose this week

reminds us that "cultural fault lines," as Huntington calls them, run through

our own country as well. <p>







A second factor that is giving new prominence and legitimacy to the discussion

of religion is the profit motive in American journalism. My own magazine has

always covered religion extensively, and in doing so has always taken religion

on its own terms--taken it to be something worth discussing for its own sake,

not because it will have an impact on something else. We have done so out of a

sense of journalistic responsibility and, I think, moral curiosity. But I must

also tell you this: every time we make an article on religion the cover story,

our newsstand sales increase by 30 to 50 percent. As noted earlier, ordinary

Americans are a religious people, but such appetite as they may have for good

writing about religion has long been ignored by the mainstream press. That

situation is changing, in part because newspaper and magazine editors have

begun to realize--as book publishers always knew--that there is, in fact, a big

market out there. You may have noticed that the cover story of last week's

<i>Newsweek</i> was titled "The Death of Jesus." <i>U.S. News &amp; World

Report</i> recently published a cover story on spirituality, and three months

ago published a cover story on the life of Jesus. <i>Time</i> magazine last

November featured a cover story on "Angels." <i>Life</i> magazine just this

March had a cover story called "The Power of Prayer."<p>







The motives here are not entirely pure, of course--some publishers, surely,

have no interest beyond praying all the way to the bank. And it may be that

what we're seeing is a temporary enthusiasm. But there are grounds for hope, in

my view, that such coverage will be sustained. Quite apart from the economic

incentive, the past decade has seen the emergence of a group of journalists who

have developed a personal interest in religious subjects. Why has this

happened? For one thing, there is nothing like having come to adulthood in the

1970s or '80s to make one lose faith in the human capacity to create a social

heaven on earth--to make one open one's eyes to other possibilities.

Furthermore, the advance of technology, including biotechnology, has raised the

deepest questions about human values, questions that science itself plainly

lacks the power to answer. Meanwhile, the past few decades have brought forth a

wealth of accessible religious scholarship that educated, sophisticated,

skeptical, thoroughly modern people can encounter without being made to feel

that they must check the twentieth century at the door.<p>







A third factor to be considered are developments in science, particularly

cosmology. One of the participants in the Boston College seminar, a scientist,

made the point one day that, in his experience, those working in the hard

sciences, especially physics, were the people in academe most open to

discussing seriously the question of the existence of God. We all know why, I

think. With each new advance in our understanding of how the universe came to

be--with each new advance in our understanding of how the subatomic world is

ordered--we seem only to deepen the mystery of existence, even as the

architecture of physical reality is cause for dizzying wonder. In John Updike's

novel <i>Roger's Version</i> the character Dale Kohler tells the theologian

Roger Lambert about recent developments in astronomy and physics. "The most

miraculous thing is happening," he says. "The physicists are getting down to

the nitty-gritty, they've really just about pared things down to the ultimate

details, and the last thing they ever expected to be happening is happening.

God is showing through." Well, Kohler is excessively enthusiastic. But books by

physicists that go on to address questions of ultimate meaning are by now a

distinct and populous genre. And even those who, like Steven Weinberg in

<i>Dreams of a Final Theory</i>, reject the idea that science will lead to God,

find themselves writing sensitively and poignantly and at length about

religious belief. I will be forever grateful to Weinberg, by the way, for a

story he tells about Bertrand Russell, who had been imprisoned during the First

World War on account of his pacifism. A prison official, as was customary,

asked Russell what his religion was. Russell replied that he was an agnostic.

The jailer looked puzzled, then smiled, and said. "I guess it's all right. We

all worship the same God, don't we?"<p>







A fourth development is the emergence of a cadre of vocal and articulate black

intellectuals. I referred earlier to the decline of the public intellectual,

and yet there is a small, distinct, and glaring countertrend, and it is

occurring among blacks in academe--a group of people who, thanks to the

historically prominent role of the black church in black communities, are more

likely than the average person in academe to come from strongly religious

backgrounds and to empathize with religious institutions. One sees a strain of

spirituality in much black literature--in James Baldwin's <i>Go Tell It on the

Mountain</i>, in Alice Walker's <i>The Color Purple</i>, in Toni Morrison's

<i>Beloved</i>--and now one is beginning to see matters of religion cropping up

in discussions by black academics, such as Cornel West and Stephen Carter, of

issues in public policy. In <i>The Culture of Disbelief</i> Carter asks this

question: "What precisely does it mean to be an American and religious? What is

the proper scope of the influence of the religious self on the public self? How

hard are politicians and others in the public square required to work to make

this separation--and is the separation possible or even desirable?" Carter

argues powerfully that religion must not be relegated to the private sphere--to

the status of a hobby, like woodworking--and that indeed it is precisely when

religion has public influence that it best serves democracy. As an independent

source of moral understanding, it exists in a state of fruitful tension with

the urges--and sometimes the excesses--of majoritarian rule. Black

intellectuals do not forget that religion animated the civil-rights movement.

<p>







A final development to consider is--and I hesitate even to mention the next two

words--Bill Clinton. I cannot plumb his soul, and can say nothing about his

sincerity when he speaks, sometimes movingly, about religion. I can say this:

He is the first President in decades who maintains close ties with both the

cultural elite and leaders of the religious mainstream. We all know about

Clinton the Rhodes Scholar and Clinton and Hollywood; his meetings with

evangelical Christian leaders with whom he has been associated for years rarely

get reported, but they are frequent. In one statement that did get publicized,

he went out of his way to endorse the line of argument pursued by Stephen

Carter, saying that "the fact that we have freedom of religion does not mean we

need to try to have freedom from religion." (Interestingly, on the "freedom

from religion" front, a White House reporter had seen Carter's book on

Clinton's desk a few days earlier, and deliberately chose not to ask Clinton

anything about it.) Is Clinton the politician, driven by expediency, merely

trying to hold an unlikely alliance together? Even if that is the sum total of

his motivation, I find myself mildly heartened that an alliance is at least

being attempted. <p>







IV.<p>







Let me conclude on a personal note. I have been talking this evening about a

fundamental division between two worlds, and some of the implications of that

division, but it is important to remember that there are many who, by whatever

path, have found a place for themselves in both of those worlds. Certainly that

can be said of many who teach at this university. It can be said of me. We live

in both, moreover, in a way that cannot be easily disentangled, cannot be

easily compartmentalized. In thinking about this, I'm always reminded of a

famous remark in a <i>Times of London</i> editorial about attempting to

separate the inseparable, that it's like asking a sheep how much of its time it

spends growing wool as opposed to turning itself into mutton.<p>







But those of us who find ourselves in this position are uniquely placed to

look, Janus-like, in both directions. It is we who must seek out those places

where a span can be thrown over the gulf, and the two worlds can be joined.<p>

































</blockquote>

<hr>

<ul>

<li>Go to <a href="cmList.htm">Murphy Article Index</a>

</ul>



<hr>







<nobr>

 

 

<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

 



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1994, by Cullen Murphy

</font>



</body> </html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-20</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B031-231</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/congress/Lindf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191559 text/html 43176
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:15:49 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:44:31 GMT
Content-length: 42970
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

A Radical Plan to Change American Politics

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>August 1992</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



A Radical Plan to Change American Politics



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Michael Lind</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>From the term-limitation movement

to the rise of Ross Perot, the signs of discontent with the political status

quo are everywhere. Our author outlines a plan to channel that discontent in an

innovative direction, one that would make the House of Representatives more

democratic and more responsive to the variety of opinion to be found in the

country and that would break the monopoly on power enjoyed by the two parties.

"Because of our peculiar electoral law," he writes, "the American government is

divided between two parties. The American people are not"</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>he world has, America has changed--but the United States Congress has not. And

because Congress hasn't changed, more and more people feel alienated from

government, and the silent crisis of legitimacy, which figures as a haunting

leitmotif in so many of our other crises, intensifies. The size of the House of

Representatives has been the same since 1910. And America's archaic and

undemocratic system of electing, by plurality, one member of Congress per

district--an eighteenth-century anachronism long since abandoned by most

European democracies--has scarcely been questioned in the entire period since

1789.<p>



<p>



This kind of acquiescence in tradition--pious if you approve of it, mindless if

you do not--might be justified if the U.S. Congress were an effective and

popular institution. The consensus of its inmates and its constituents,

however, is that Congress does not work. Widespread discontent with the

political system could have been expected to produce proposals for reform of

the legislative branch, and it has. Unfortunately, the most familiar proposals

for reforming Congress would do so at the expense of democracy.<p>



<p>



<p>



THREE BAD IDEAS<p>



<p>



Bad idea No. 1 is term limitation. Why should any constituency be prevented

from sending the same representative or senator back to Washington again and

again? The direct election of U.S. senators, brought about by the Seventeenth

Amendment, did not, as advertised, eliminate corporate influence on legislative

politics. Only the very naive believe that the same promised result--the

sidelining of "special interests" and the filling of the legislature with

public-spirited citizen-legislators--will be produced by frequent rotation. In

a capital city in which expertise is power, the frequent circulation of amateur

legislators would only increase the relative influence of the permanent

congressional staff, the federal bureaucracy and the entrenched Washington

establishment of lobbyists and insiders.<p>



<p>



The misguided panacea of the moment, term limitation joins two long-standing

proposals for congressional reform, one associated with the left, the other

with the right. For much of the twentieth century Progressives, New Dealers,

and then left liberals, in the name of "responsible party government," have

dreamed of reforming the United States to resemble an idealized Britain--bad

idea No. 2. (Ironically, today constitutional reformers in Britain are seeking

a new system with many "American" features, such as federalism, judicial

review, and a written constitution.) Those who seek to reform Congress along

parliamentary lines are not concerned about the separation of powers, an

antiquated system they deride. Instead, they favor the "separation of parties."

In their view, the American mass electorate should be given a clear choice

between two sharply defined ideological parties; a party that wins a bare

majority in the House, the Senate, and the presidential election should be

given carte blanche to govern with as few impediments to the exercise of power

as possible, rolling over not only the opposition party but also dissidents

within the majority party itself.<p>



<p>



If a parliamentary Congress was the dream of midcentury liberals when it

appeared that the Democratic Party would control all three branches forever,

the recent inability of Republicans to elect congressional majorities has

created a constituency on the American right for bad idea No. 3--what can

almost be described as presidential rule. Effectively abandoning any hope of

ever recapturing Congress, many Republicans have favored strengthening the

power of partisan Presidents to alter policy directly, through executive

orders, rather than the old-fashioned way--by pressing for the repeal or the

amendment of laws.<p>



<p>



Since Richard Nixon began the present era of Republican presidential dominance,

Republican claims for "inherent" executive prerogative have grown ever more

extravagant (recycling the arguments of Democratic presidentialists in the era

from Franklin Roosevelt to Lyndon Johnson). President George Bush has claimed

vast powers in domestic as well as foreign policy. In addition to asserting

that he had the power to wage war in the Persian Gulf without congressional

approval, he has declared that he will not enforce provisions that he considers

unconstitutional in laws that he has signed. Some conservatives even argue that

Bush should exercise a supposed "inherent" line-item veto that has been read

into the Constitution (where, somehow, it has eluded discovery since the days

of George Washington, who observed, "From the nature of the Constitution, I

must approve all the parts of a bill, or reject it, in toto").<p>



Further magnification of discretionary White House power--even in the service

of legitimate goals--runs the danger of creating a North American form of Latin

American plebiscitary presidentialism, in which a demagogic Presidente

circumvents a weak legislature and rules by fiat, in the name of a "mandate"

from the national electorate.<p>



<p>



Many of the problems of Congress that term limiters, parliamentary reformers,

and presidential-power enthusiasts seek to address are genuine: swollen

congressional staffs and perks, arrogance by entrenched committee chairmen,

subservience to wealthy and well-organized lobbies, micromanagement of

executive agencies by incompetent or venal legislators. These abuses cry out

for remedies--but for republican remedies.<p>



<p>



<p>



A GOOD IDEA<p>



<p>



Other reforms of Congress can extend rather than restrict democracy in America.

One is an overdue increase in the size of the House of Representatives.<p>



<p>



In 1789 the first House of Representatives had sixty-five members, each

representing about 30,000 inhabitants (and far fewer qualified voters).

Anti-Federalist opponents of the new federal Constitution protested that

districts of 30,000 were too large: congressmen would be far too remote from

the concerns of their constituents (the constituencies in most state

legislatures at the time were much smaller). One of the Federalist papers (No.

55) is devoted to justifying such enormous districts.<p>



<p>



Today each of the 435 members of the House represents about twenty times as

many voters as the first representatives did. Whereas the United States has, on

average, one representative for roughly every 600,000 inhabitants, the ratio in

Japan is one to 238,600, in Germany one to 120,000, in France one to 96,300,

and in Britain one to 87,500. Obviously, the disparity is due largely to the

differences in population between the United States and other Western

countries, but the number of representatives also plays a role. The U.S. House

of Representatives is small by Western democratic standards. Germany's newly

revised Bundestag has 662 members, the British House of Commons 651 members,

France's National Assembly 577 members, and Japan's lower house of the Diet 512

members.<p>



<p>



There is nothing sacred about 435, the number at which the-House of

Representatives has been frozen by law since 1929. In the intervening six

decades the United States has more than doubled in population. A vote for a

representative, therefore, counts less than half as much in 1992 as it did in

1929--and a twentieth as much as it did in 1792. The weight of a vote will

continue to decline: fifty years from now the average congressional district

may include 750,000 people. Already, Montana has gone to court to challenge the

present apportionment system, which would give the huge state only one

congressional seat, representing 800,000 people. What is more, at the rate that

the U.S. population is growing, in the foreseeable future a fifth of the states

may have only one representative--and a third only two or one.<p>



<p>



Clearly, the membership of the House cannot be increased in direct proportion

to the population. If the original 30,000-member constituencies had been

retained, by today there would be more than 8,000 representatives. (The House

would have to meet in a stadium.) Nevertheless, moderate increases in House

size can help limit the dilution of democracy caused by population growth. If

the experience of other Western democracies is any guide, a 500-member House

would not be unmanageable, nor would a 600-member House. The House is not the

Senate; it loses its special function as districts grow too large and

representatives find themselves ever more remote from their constituencies. If

there is an argument against moderate increases in House membership beyond 435,

it must be more compelling than mere tradition. Sixty-three years is not time

immemorial.<p>



<p>



<p>



PROPORTIONAL REPRESENTATION<p>



<p>



The comparatively small number of representatives in the popular branch of the

U.S. legislature is not, however, the only respect in which the United States

is less democratic than the countries of Western Europe.<p>



<p>



Electoral systems can be divided into two fundamental varieties: the plurality,

or "winner-take-all," method and the party-list method, with proportional

representation (PR). Under the plurality system a representative is elected by

a simple plurality (or in some cases a majority) of voters in a single-member

district. In contrast, in PR systems the country is divided into multimember

districts (in a small country such as Israel, the entire nation may be a single

district). Several parties present lists of candidates within each multimember

district; the electorate casts its votes for the parties, rather than the

candidates; and then the seats are allocated among the parties, on the basis of

the proportion they received of the total vote.<p>



<p>



The United States has inherited the plurality method from Britain, which

maintains it as well (Australia has broken with the British tradition in favor

of more-modern methods). The Anglo-American method makes possible distortions

of the democratic process which are simply impossible under PR. Imagine a

country with a plurality system in which there are two major parties, X and Y.

Those who vote for party X, even if they make up no more than 51 percent of the

voters in each single-member district, may elect 100 percent of the

representatives; those voting for party Y, although they constitute 49 percent

of the population, MAY END UP WITH NO REPRESENTATIVES AT ALL. Now suppose that

X and Y are joined by a third party, Z. If in every district X receives 40

percent of the vote, Y 38 percent, and Z 22 percent, X will control every seat

in the legislature, even though 60 percent of the population voted for other

parties.<p>



<p>



These examples may seem extreme, but there are cases in which plurality systems

have elected one party even though another received a greater number of votes.

For example, in 1974 the British Conservative Party lost its majority of seats

in the House of Commons, even though it received 300,000 more votes than the

Labour Parry. In the latest British election John Major's Conservative Party

retained a majority in the House of Commons, even though a majority of British

voters cast votes for parties other than the Conservatives.<p>



<p>



Similar distortions exist in the United States. In 1990 the Republican Party

won 45 percent of the popular vote but was reduced to 38 percent of the seats

in the House. The Democrats, with 53 percent of the popular vote, received 61

percent of the seats. As in Britain, a strong third-party challenge could

permit a minority of American voters to elect a majority of members of

Congress. Nothing remotely comparable to these distortions is possible under

proportional representation.<p>



<p>



Another advantage of PR is the way it makes gerrymandering difficult or

impossible. In multimember districts every party or voting bloc will be

represented more or less in proportion to its strength in the entire

electorate, regardless of how the district lines are drawn. It is only in

plurality systems, in which an area of several blocks may make the difference

between losing everything and winning everything by a few percentage points,

that there is a strong incentive to gerrymander.<p>



<p>



Along with partisan gerrymandering, today's government-mandated racial

gerrymandering could be eliminated by PR without curtailing the voting power of

ethnic minorities. Federal courts have gone from striking down a "strangely

irregular twenty-eight-sided" district drawn to prevent black voters from

pooling their strength to requiring the creation of equally strange districts

to encourage the election of black candidates. Under PR, blacks and Hispanics

would find it much easier to elect candidates of their own ethnic group--if

they chose. But they would not be maneuvered into such a choice by being

electorally ghettoized in safe "minority" districts. Other ethnic minorities,

who do not receive preferential gerrymandering, would benefit as well. For

example, the federal courts have recognized the right of blacks to have

districts redesigned to their benefit--but not the right of Hasidim. PR would

eliminate the need for heavy-handed efforts that force some electoral

minorities to waste their votes while artificially magnifying the weight of

other minority votes. At the same time, PR would increase the power of all

minorities--ethnic, religious, ideological, economic, blacks and Hasidim--to

elect representatives to Congress, on whatever grounds they chose.<p>



<p>



Proportional representation has an additional advantage, insofar as it permits

the election of talented or distinguished persons who can get a minority of the

vote in a district but who disdain to indulge in the vulgar exaggeration and

false promises necessary to win a majority. Noting that "the highly cultivated

members of the community" find it difficult to be elected under a

winner-take-all system, John Stuart Mill wrote,<p>



<p>



     "Had a plan like Mr. Hare's [for proportional representation] by good

fortune suggested itself to the enlightened and patriotic founders of the

American Republic, the Federal and State Assemblies would have contained many

of these distinguished men, and democracy would have been spared its greatest

reproach and one of its most formidable evils."<p>



<p>



<p>



PRACTICALITIES<p>



<p>



What would it take to install proportional representation for members of the

House of Representatives? Nothing more than an act of Congress. No

constitutional amendment is necessary. Article I, Section 4 of the Constitution

states, "The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and

Representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof;

but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except

as to the Places of chusing Senators." This gives Congress the power to preempt

all state electoral laws and to mandate a system of multimember districts with

proportional representation for electing members of the House of

Representatives.<p>



<p>



Because the idea of PR is to give electoral representation not only to parties

or candidates that win by slight pluralities or majorities but also to second-,

third-, and fourth-place winners, it requires multimember districts. The best

way to adapt PR to American conditions would be to consolidate present

contiguous congressional districts into multimember districts with some

manageable number of members--seven, say, or nine. The larger the number

elected from a multimember district, the smaller the number of voters needed to

elect at least one representative to the House.<p>



<p>



By promoting a close correspondence between groups of voters and groups

represented in Congress, PR minimizes the waste of votes that occurs under our

present system. For example, the same hypothetical voting population that,

divided into nine single-member districts, now returns nine Democrats, each

with a slight plurality in his district, might, if organized into a nine-member

district with PR, send four Democrats, three Republicans, one Libertarian, and

one Conservative to Congress--WITH THE SAME VOTES CAST. By the same token,

Democrats who today waste their votes in largely Republican areas might be able

to elect a minority of a consolidated multimember district's congressional

delegation. Many voters who today are resigned to never electing a congressman

of their party or their philosophy, simply because they happen to belong to

permanent electoral minorities in their local communities, would suddenly be

able to help elect one or more representatives, without changing either their

residence or their views.<p>



<p>



Multimember districts are nothing new in the United States. Combined with both

plurality elections and PR, they have long been used at the state and municipal

levels. For example, from 1870 to 1980 the cumulative vote within three-member

districts (similar to PR) was used to elect legislators to the Illinois

Assembly. As early as 1867 Senator Charles Buckalew proposed that cumulative

voting for House elections be imposed by Congress on reconstructed southern

states seeking readmission to the Union; following this experiment, either

cumulative voting or proportional representation (which he thought too complex

for the Americans of his day to comprehend!) could be adopted nationwide. That

his proposed reform got nowhere was a tragedy not only for the black, white

Republican, and Populist electoral minorities in the South, who were soon

effectively disenfranchised by the dominant Democrats, but for the country as a

whole, which might have adopted PR by the turn of the century, as many European

democracies had.<p>



<p>



What about the states that are so sparsely populated that they have only one

congressman apiece? PR works only when districts elect multiple members--at

least two or three, and preferably more than four or five. At present six

states have such small populations that they have only one representative

apiece (Alaska, Delaware, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wyoming).

Perhaps single-member states would elect their representatives under a

plurality system. Still, it seems unfair not to allow their citizens the

benefits of PR. The fairest approach would be to increase the number of

representatives to give these states more representatives.<p>



<p>



These proposals may seem radical. They are. Established institutions need be

accorded respect only to the degree that they have earned it. In this case it

is difficult to argue with the political scientist Theodore Lowi that "nothing

about the present American party system warrants the respect it receives."<p>



<p>



Discontent is manifested not only by third-party challenges but also by

split-ticket voting, a practice that expresses the inability of many Americans

to identify completely with either national party. In 1988, for example, a

quarter of the Ohio voters who voted for George Bush also voted for the liberal

Democratic senator Howard Metzenbaum. Split-ticket voting like this has

produced today's deadlocked government. The blame lies with a party system that

does not allow the preferences of substantial numbers of Americans to be

expressed.<p>



<p>



Because of our peculiar electoral law, the U.S. government is divided between

two parties. The American people are not.<p>



<p>



<p>



THE CUMULATIVE VOTE AND CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP<p>



<p>



The principal behind PR--the representation of electoral minorities as

minorities in the government--would be thwarted if it were not carried through

to the selection of the leaders of the legislature. The instrument to carry it

through is the cumulative vote.<p>



<p>



The technique of cumulative voting was devised by corporate lawyers to ensure

minority-shareholder representation on the board of directors of a corporation.

The technique gives a voting bloc a choice, whether to distribute its votes

among all the candidates who are to be elected to the board at the same time,

or to pool its votes, in order to be sure of electing one or several

candidates. The theory is that it is better to be represented by a minority on

the board than not to be represented at all.<p>



<p>



Cumulative voting could easily be applied to the selection of both the House

and the Senate leadership. Under the present system for selecting the speaker

of the House and the Senate majority leader, whatever party or faction controls

a bare majority of each body can control the leadership and elect all the

committee chairmen. Suppose, however, that each house of Congress were run by a

leadership committee. Suppose further that each representative or senator did

not have to cast one vote for each committee position but could cast all his or

her votes for one candidate. Minorities within each house could then elect

members to the leadership committees.<p>



<p>



Why should a party that controls 51 percent of the seats in a legislature

control 100 percent of the chairmanships of legislative committees? Why should

49 percent of the population go unrepresented in the congressional leadership,

merely because they are 49 rather than 51 percent? Why should there be a

revolution in committee leadership in a closely divided House if, say, half a

dozen districts return representatives belonging to the former minority

party?<p>



<p>



Life is full of crude approximations, and the ancient convention that treats a

51 percent majority as a surrogate for the whole might be tolerable if there

were not an alternative. But there is: the cumulative vote.<p>



<p>



<p>



EXTREMISM--OR CONSENSUS?<p>



<p>



Compared with proportional representation, the Anglo-American plurality method

is so manifestly unfair that it must be justified in terms of other values.

Most of the criticism of PR is directed at multiparty systems, which PR is

thought--correctly--to promote. Plurality systems tend to encourage two parties

to dominate, while PR systems generally reward the formation of small

parties.<p>



<p>



Some claim that the multiparty democracy encouraged by PR is "undemocratic,"

because coalition-building is undertaken in the legislature by minority

parties, rather than within broad, would-be-majority parties before

winner-take-all elections. Insofar as smaller parties must make more

compromises than large parties in order to get their programs passed, PR is

said to deny voters the right to choose between two clearly defined party

platforms, one of which has the chance of becoming the platform of a stable

legislative majority. This assumes, however, that there is no logrolling in

two-party systems. It also assumes that most voters identify wholly with one or

the other party. In reality, Americans, to the extent that they vote for

parties rather than individual candidates, choose one party over the other

because it is the lesser of two evils, not because they fully endorse the

national party's positions on all issues. The addition of new parties would

increase the chances that voters could find representatives who shared most or

all of their values and concerns.<p>



<p>



The charge that a multiparty system leads to governmental instability is untrue

for a country like the United States, whose government is based on the

separation of powers. In multiparty parliamentary regimes, because the Prime

Minister and executive officers belong to the parties in the dominant

coalition, the entire government may fall if a small party defects. In such a

system a small extremist party may be able to exact major concessions on

policy, as the price of its joining a coalition. Reportedly, in the spring of

1990, for example, a single Brooklyn rabbi, by virtue of his influence over a

tiny religious party, prevented the formation of a legislative coalition in

Israel's Knesset. This kind of instability would remain impossible in the

United States, where the President would continue to be elected by the

plurality system, and would serve for a fixed term no matter what multiparty

coalitions formed in the House of Representatives. Israel, now on the way to

adopting direct elections for the Prime Minister, is moving away from

parliamentary instability toward a system like the one I advocate, combining

the separation of powers with PR for elections to a popular legislative

chamber.<p>



<p>



<p>



NEW PARTIES<p>



<p>



It is anyone's guess what the parties in a House elected by PR would be. (The

Senate would continue to be elected the way it is now, and such effect as there

would be on it would be indirect.) Although voters might continue to identify

with the two major parties for a time, dissidents would soon learn that

third-party votes were not wasted.<p>



<p>



The largest party in the House might well be the Republicans. As it is, their

party, with its homogeneous and stable group of core voters and centralized,

disciplined organization, is far more like a European party than the Democratic

Party is. If PR were adopted, the Republicans might lose their right wing to a

new conservative party or parties, but the number of right-wing Republican

voters is fairly small (as the Patrick Buchanan campaign unintentionally

demonstrated, by adding only single-digit figures to large protest votes). The

Republicans might compensate for their loss by becoming a more consistently

classical-liberal party--pro-business, pro-choice--and attracting fiscally

conservative social liberals who now identify with a Democrat like Paul

Tsongas. Such a neoliberal Republican Party might hold steady at 35 to 40

percent of the House.<p>



<p>



The Democratic Party, an incoherent coalition of smaller proto-parties,

lobbies, interest groups, and machines, which are brought together only by the

winner-take-all logic of our electoral system, would, however, probably

disintegrate. The breakup of the Democratic Party as the result of PR would not

mean that the power of today's Democratic voters would decline. On the

contrary, the kind of moderate Democrats represented by the Democratic

Leadership Council, freed from the electoral necessity of appeasing ethnic and

liberal lobbies, might well prosper. Together with "Reagan Democrats" wooed

back from the Republican presidential coalition, moderate Democrats in Congress

might form a Populist Party equivalent to Christian Democratic parties in

Europe. Slightly right of center on social issues and foreign policy, slightly

left of center on middle-class benefits, such a party could be expected to draw

substantial support from Northeastern ethnics, middle-and lower-middle-class

whites and Hispanics in the South and West, and perhaps socially conservative

blacks. It would be heavily Catholic. A Populist Party might be the nearest

rival to the Republicans for the status of largest party in the House.<p>



<p>



The United States, unlike Europe, probably would not have a strong Social

Democratic Party, given the low level of unionization and the lack of a

mainstream socialist intellectual tradition here. There might nevertheless be

something that called itself the Social Democratic Party, representing unions,

farmers, public-sector employees. Heavily black and Hispanic, such a party

would favor protectionism and government subsidies to industry.<p>



<p>



A small American Green Party would almost certainly arise from the

decomposition of the Democrats. Appealing to New Age environmentalists,

pacifists, feminists, and gay-rights activists, such a party might have trouble

winning five percent of the vote in successive elections. So might other fringe

parties that are easy to imagine: the Conservatives, a far right-fundamentalist

alliance; the Multicultural Coalition, a coalition of ethnic-separatist

parties; and anti-tax Libertarians.<p>



<p>



Carrying this speculative exercise one step further, we might assign

percentages of House membership to these hypothetical parties. Based on

European experience and American political subcultures, the pattern might be as

follows: Republicans (40 percent), Populists (30 percent), Social Democrats (15

percent), Greens (5 percent), Conservatives (5 percent), Multiculturalists and

Libertarians (5 percent between them).<p>



<p>



One question that immediately comes to mind is, Would a multiparty system

exaggerate the power of small, extremist parties in the House? The danger that

such parties might hold the key to House leadership would be eliminated by the

leadership reforms proposed above. If the position of speaker of the House

rotated among the members of a leadership committee elected by cumulative vote,

moderate parties would be assured of exercising power in their turn and having

substantial weight on the leadership committees, without having to make any

compromises with extremists.<p>



<p>



The chances that tiny fringe parties would win significant representation would

be limited by the division of the country into multimember districts. The

danger of extremism could also be guarded against by setting a threshold for

participation in the legislature. Germany's requirement that parties get five

percent of the nationwide vote, for example, has been enough to exclude both

the neo-Nazi Republicans and the radical-left Greens. Anyone who argues for a

higher threshold should explain just which 10 or 20 percent of his fellow

citizens are so dangerous that they should be effectively disenfranchised.<p>



<p>



It is extremely doubtful that PR could bring black-nationalist or

white-supremacist parties to power in the House. Since blacks constitute only

12 percent of the population, and an even smaller proportion of the electorate,

most black voters would have to support an extremist party for it to clear a

five-percent threshold. It seems unlikely that they would, because

more-moderate multiracial parties would more accurately reflect the economic

concerns and values of most black voters. Even if a black-nationalist party

passed the five-percent hurdle, it could be kept out of the House leadership.

To elect one member to a five-member leadership committee, at least 17 percent

of the House membership would be necessary. Black radicals would have to form

coalitions with non-blacks.<p>



<p>



What about white Klansmen and neo-Nazis? Right-wing nationalist parties have

made gains in recent European elections, but these are protest votes by

moderate voters who seek to change particular policies of centrist parties, not

to replace those parties permanently with extremists. In the United States the

support for Buchanan's extreme conservatism, even in the Republican Party,

appears to have been in the single digits, and support for David Duke-style

racism vanishingly small. This suggests that the only viable far-right parties

in a multiparty House would be Pat Robertson-style Christian conservatives, not

Aryan Nation skinheads.<p>



<p>



Those who claim that PR was responsible for the electoral successes of the

National Socialist party in Weimar Germany are mistaken, according to no less

an authority than Hermann Goering. Enid Lakeman, a British advocate of PR,

writes of Weimar Germany that "if the British electoral system had been in use

[the Nazi party] might have been grossly over-represented....Goering said at

his trial that under the British system that [1933] election would have given

the Nazis every seat in the country, and he cannot have been far wrong." Hitler

would have loved the Anglo-American electoral system.<p>



<p>



For some, of course, a system that gives any influence to "extremists" like

conservative Christians and social democrats is bad. Even if this intolerant

position could be reconciled with a commitment to democracy in America, would

PR be worse than the plurality system in this respect? Under our present system

small but intensely motivated ideological minorities have the power to force

moderate Republicans and moderate Democrats to placate them in order to get the

small margin of voters sometimes necessary for election in winner-take-all

races. In a multiparty system such intense minorities might gain direct

representation in Congress but would lose their ability to dictate

centrist-party platforms. To be sure, on particular measures large, centrist

parties might need small-party help, but they would not need to ally themselves

with small parties in order to win election in the first place. In the shifting

coalitions formed to pass different bills, the larger, moderate parties would

have the upper hand.<p>



<p>



In addition to ideological extremism, today's two-party American system

promotes "extremism of the center." This results from the need for the two

national parties to exaggerate their differences in order to appeal to the

crucial minority of white middle-class swing voters. These voters--Wallace-ites

and Reagan Democrats--do not identify completely with either national party.

Since 1968 they have elected primarily Republican Presidents who share their

conservative cultural and foreign-policy values, and Democratic congressmen who

protect their middle-class transfers (Social Security, Medicaid, student

loans). The penchant of these "populists" for ticket-splitting not only

exaggerates the indirect power of this group but also encourages Democrats and

Republicans alike to pander to their worst instincts. The Democrats try to

appeal to the populist swing vote with giveaways; the Republicans play on

racial resentment and call for military strength. If populists had their own

party in Congress, their leaders would presumably have to be more responsible

and measured in their views than are swing voters whose prejudices and

appetites are stoked and exploited by both of today's national parties. As long

as there is ticket-splitting, extremism of this kind will be built into our

present system--and will corrupt it. A case can be made, then, that PR is just

as likely to reduce the political power of extremist minorities as to enhance

it.<p>



<p>



<p>



TRANSFORMING AMERICAN POLITICS<p>



<p>



Of course, a little instability might help end the trench warfare in American

politics. By multiplying the possibilities for coalitions, a PR-produced

multiparty system could introduce movement and change where there is now only

partisan maneuvering on the margins of deadlock. To use the parties in my

example, a legislative coalition of Republicans, Libertarians, and

Conservatives might be able to cap runaway spending and put through a bill

enabling parents to choose the schools that their children will attend.

Populists might be able to attract Social Democrats and Conservatives whose

lower-middle-class constituents were dependent on federal transfer payments

into an alliance on the issue of comprehensive health-care reform. Small-town

Christian Conservatives and rural Greens might find themselves allied against

environmentally disruptive development projects.<p>



<p>



The formation of multiple parties could transform American politics in other

ways. Although only members of the House of Representatives would be elected by

PR, parties in the House would soon begin to run candidates for the Senate as

well, so that the Senate, too, might be divided among several parties offering

a choice, not an echo.<p>



<p>



The effects on presidential elections could be even more interesting, because

of the constitutional provision that if no presidential candidate wins a

majority of the electoral-college vote, the choice will be left to the House of

Representatives. "The presence of a third important party capable of obtaining

seats in the House of Representatives and a few electoral votes would hardly

throw every presidential election into the House of Representatives," Theodore

Lowi has written. "Its presence WOULD, however, force each of the candidates

for the nominations of the two major parties to look to the House of

Representatives as the place where the real election MIGHT TAKE PLACE. This

would transform the presidency because Congress would become the president's

direct constituency." The possibility that a splitting of the presidential vote

among several candidates would give the House the opportunity to choose might

deter Presidents from demagogically "running against Congress," as have Jimmy

Carter, Ronald Reagan, and George Bush.<p>



<p>



A much more likely scenario than elections thrown into the House is the

formation of multiparty alliances to elect presidential candidates. Not only

might populists have the dominant party in the House, but also they might be

the dominant partner in winning presidential alliances. No longer would

populists be tempted to split their votes between Republican Presidents and

Democratic Congresses. Divided government could come to an end.<p>



<p>



Such a system might create incentives for interbranch cooperation, rather than

confrontation. Since Presidents would tend to be elected by the same multiparty

coalition that dominated voting in the House, they would be inclined to view

major congressmen as allies, not enemies. At the same time, the multiplication

of parties might increase presidential influence in Congress, because it would

be difficult for centrist majorities in the House to entice Greens, radical

Christians, and other small parties into the supermajorities needed to override

presidential vetoes. Presidents who found it easier to organize legislative

coalitions, in turn, would be less tempted to circumvent Congress and undermine

constitutional democracy by bureaucratic policy changes in the name of

"inherent executive power."<p>



<p>



There might even be a parallel to the "era of good feelings" that, in

hindsight, can be seen to have existed from 1936 to 1968. Contrast the

accomplishments of that era--the winning of the Second World War, the Marshall

Plan, NATO, GATT, the GI Bill, interstate highways, public education, the Civil

Rights Act--with the dissension, deadlock, and deficits of the period from 1968

to the present. Contributing to the nonpartisan achievements of that earlier

period might have been the fact that the United States had a de facto

three-party system. From their rebellion against FDR's court-packing scheme

until their downfall as the result of the civil-rights movement, conservative

southern Democrats in Congress functioned in effect as a third party, voting

almost as often with the Republicans as with liberal Democrats. Their power had

evil roots, to be sure, in black disenfranchisement; recognizing this, one can

also recognize that they played a moderating role in American politics,

checking the excesses of left-wing New Dealers and isolationist Republicans

alike. If something like the post-1968 two-party system had existed from the

Depression until the 1960s, with a deep division between left-wing New Dealers

and far-right Republicans combined with nearly constant control of the

presidency and Congress by opposing parties, then America might have been far

less stable and successful both abroad and at home.<p>



<p>



The Founding Fathers did not think that the long development of democratic

political forms in America and the world had come to an end with their work.

Neither should we. America was once the laboratory of democracy. If the

alliance of tradition and cynicism against democratic reform of Congress

prevails, America may become democracy's museum instead.<p>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1992 by The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; August 1992; A Radical Plan to Change American Politics; 

Volume 270, No. 2;

page(s) 73-83

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-21</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B032-212</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/puborder.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117192055 text/html 43852
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:20:43 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:11:30 GMT
Content-length: 43646
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Crisis of Public Order by Adam Walinsky

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>July 1995</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			The Crisis of Public Order

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Adam Walinsky</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote> 



	<i><font size=4>The Department of Justice now says that "stranger murders" have become 

four times as common as family killings, and that the chances of getting 

away with one exceed 80 percent. Scholars say the nation's murder rate may 

soon double. The author says we are inviting this "long descending night" 

of crime by teaching violent young people that "we will do almost anything 

not to have to act to defend ourselves, our country, or our character as 

people of decency and strength."</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>N</font>umbers are useful in politics, because they are more neutral than 

adjectival speech and because they express magnitude--that is, they can 

tell us not only that we confront a danger but also what the depth and 

direction of the danger are. The most important numbers in America deal 

with violence--not the occasional terrorist violence but the terror of 

everyday life as it is lived by millions of citizens today, and as it 

threatens to become for many more of us for the rest of this century and 

beyond. <P>

During his campaign and since, President Bill Clinton has spoken of a 

sharp decline in the strength of the nation's police forces. In the 1960s 

the United States as a whole had 3.3 police officers for every violent 

crime reported per year. In 1993 it had 3.47 violent crimes reported for 

every police officer. In relation to the amount of violent crime, then, we 

have less than one tenth the effective police power of thirty years ago; 

or, in another formulation, each police officer today must deal with 11.45 

times as many violent crimes as his predecessor of years gone by. <P>

Title I of the 1994 crime bill intends to add 100,000 police officers 

nationally by the year 2000. (Most experts believe that far fewer new 

officers--perhaps 25,000--will actually be hired. For the purposes of this 

argument, though, let us assume the larger figure.) There are now some 

554,000 officers serving on all state and local police forces; 100,000 

more would be an increase of 18.4 percent. Rather than having 3.47 times 

as many violent crimes as police officers, we would have 2.94 times as 

many; or, each police officer would face not 11.45 times as many violent 

crimes as his predecessor but 9.7 times as many. All this assumes that the 

number of violent crimes will not increase over the next several years; if 

it does, the number of violent crimes relative to police officers will 

again increase. <P>

If we wished to return to the ratio of police officers to violent crimes 

which gave many of us peace and security in the 1960s, we would have to 

add not 100,000 new police officers but about <I>five million</I>. When this 

number was mentioned to some Department of Justice staffers recently, they 

giggled; and it is understandable that the idea of such a national 

mobilization, such tremendous expenditures, should strike them as 

laughable. However, the American people are already paying out of their 

own pockets for an additional 1.5 million private police officers, to 

provide, at least in part, the protection that the public police are 

unable to furnish. <P>

Private police guard office buildings, shopping malls, apartments. 

Businesses pay them to patrol certain downtown streets, such as those 

around New York's Grand Central Station and public library. And they 

patrol residential areas. Private patrol cars thread the streets of Los 

Angeles, and more than fifty applications are before the city council to 

close off streets so as to make those patrols more effective. Across the 

country much new housing is being built in gated communities, walled off 

and privately guarded. We are well on the way to having several million 

police officers, and the next decade will bring us much closer. If current 

trends continue, however, most of the new officers will be privately paid, 

available for the protection not of the citizenry as a whole--and 

certainly not of citizens living in the most violent ghettos and housing 

projects--but of the commercial and residential enclaves that can afford 

them. Between these enclaves there will be plenty of room to lose a 

country.<P>

<BR>



<B>ONE LONG DESCENDING NIGHT</B><P>



<font size=5>P</font>eople hire police officers because they are afraid--above all of 

violence. Their fear is occasionally a source of puzzlement and mild 

disdain in the press, which cannot understand why so many Americans say 

that crime is the nation's most urgent problem and their own greatest 

fear. Indeed, all through 1993 official agencies claimed that crime was 

declining. The FBI said that violent crime in the first six months was 

down three percent overall, and down eight percent in the Northeast.<P>

For crime to be down even eight percent would mean that a precinct that 

had had a hundred murders in 1992 had ninety-two in 1993. But nobody came 

around on New Year's Day of 1993 to give everyone's memory a rinse, 

obliterating the horrors of the previous year. The effect is not 

disjunctive but cumulative. By the end of 1993, ninety-two additional 

people had been murdered. <P>

Many people can also remember years before 1992, in large cities and in 

small. In 1960, for example, six murders, four rapes, and sixteen 

robberies were reported in New Haven, Connecticut. In 1990 that city, with 

a population 14 percent smaller, had thirty-one murders, 168 rapes, and 

1,784 robberies: robbery increased more than 100 times, or <I>10,000 percent</I>, 

over thirty years. In this perspective a one-year decrease of seven 

percent would seem less than impressive. <P>

New Haven is not unique. In Milwaukee in 1965 there were twenty-seven 

murders, thirty-three rapes, and 214 robberies, and in 1990, when the city 

was smaller, there were 165 murders, 598 rapes, and 4,472 robberies: 

robbery became twenty-one times as frequent in twenty-five years. New York 

City in 1951 had 244 murders; every year for more than a decade it has had 

nearly 2,000 murders.  We experience the crime wave not as separate 

moments in time but as one long descending night. A loved one lost echoes 

in the heart for decades. Every working police officer knows the murder 

scene: the shocked family and neighbors, too numb yet to grieve; fear and 

desolation spreading to the street, the workplace, the school, the home, 

creating an invisible but indelible network of anguish and loss. We have 

experienced more than 20,000 such scenes every year for more than a 

decade, and few of them have been truly forgotten. <P>

The memory of a mugging may fade but does not vanish. Nine percent of 

those responding to a recent poll in New York Newsday said that they had 

been mugged or assaulted in the past year. This suggests an annual total 

for the city of more than 600,000 muggings and assaults (remember also 

that many people, in poor neighborhoods especially, are assaulted more 

than once). That would be four times as many robberies and assaults as are 

reported to the police department. The Department of Justice says that not 

three quarters but only half of all violent crimes go unreported: it may 

be that many report as having happened "last year" an incident from more 

than a year ago.<P>

Nevertheless, these are stunning numbers, especially when some other 

common crimes are added in. Eight percent of those polled (implying 

560,000 New Yorkers) said their houses or apartments had been broken into; 

22 percent (1,540,000) said their cars had been broken into. In all, 42 

percent (nearly three million New Yorkers)said they had been the victims 

of crime in 1993. And, of course, about 2,000 were murdered. This is what 

it means to say that crime in 1993 was down eight percent. <P>

In October of 1994 the Bureau of Justice Statistics reported that violent 

crime had not, after all, declined in 1993 but had risen by 5.6 percent.<P>

Several years ago the Department of Justice estimated that 83 percent of 

all Americans would be victims of violent crime at least once in their 

lives. About a quarter would be victims of three or more violent crimes. 

We are progressing steadily toward the fulfillment of that prediction.<P>

<BR>



<B>A TWENTY-YEAR FRAUD EXPOSED</B><P>



<font size=5>O</font>ur greatest fear is of violence from a nameless, faceless stranger. 

Officials have always reassured citizens by stating that the great 

majority of murders, at any rate, are committed by a relative or an 

acquaintance of the victim's; a 1993 Department of Justice report said the 

figure for 1988 was eight out of ten. <P>

Unfortunately, that report described only murders in which the killer was 

known to prosecutors and an arrest was made. It did not mention that more 

and more killers remain unknown and at liberty after a full police 

investigation; every year the police make arrests in a smaller proportion 

of murder cases. In our largest cities the police now make arrests in 

fewer than three out of five murder cases. In other words, two out of 

every five killers are completely untouched by the law. <P>

When a killing is a family tragedy, or takes place between friends or 

acquaintances, the police make an arrest virtually every time. When the 

police make an arrest, they say that the crime has been "cleared"; the 

percentage of crimes for which they make arrests is referred to as the 

clearance rate. Because murder has historically been a matter principally 

among families and friends, the homicide clearance rate in the past was 

often greater than 95 percent, even in the largest cities. As late as 1965 

the national homicide clearance rate was 91 percent. However, as crime has 

spread and changed its character over the past generation, clearance rates 

have steadily dropped. In the past two years the national homicide 

clearance rate averaged 65.5 percent. The rate in the sixty-two largest 

cities is 60.5 percent. In the very largest cities--those with populations 

over a million--the rate is 58.3 percent. <P>

The missing killers are almost certainly not family members, friends, or 

neighbors. Rather, they are overwhelmingly strangers to their victims, and 

their acts are called "stranger murders." Here is the true arithmetic: The 

40 percent of killings in which city police departments are unable to 

identify and arrest perpetrators must overwhelmingly be counted as 

stranger murders; let us assume that 90 percent of them are committed by 

killers unknown to the victims. That number is equivalent to 36 percent of 

the total of all city murders. We know that of the 60 percent of killers 

the police do succeed in arresting, 20 percent have murdered strangers. 

That is, they have committed 12 percent of all murders. As best we can 

count, then, at least 48 percent of city murders are now being committed 

by killers who are not relatives or acquaintances of the victims. <P>

This simple arithmetic has been available to the government and its 

experts for years. However, the first government document to acknowledge 

these facts was the FBI's annual report on crime in the United States for 

1993, which was released last December. The FBI now estimates that 53 

percent of all homicides are being committed by strangers. For more than 

two decades, as homicide clearance rates have plummeted, law

enforcement agencies have continued to assure the public that four fifths 

of all killings are the result of personal passions. Thus were we 

counseled to fear our loved ones above all, to regard the family hearth as 

the most dangerous place. Now that falsehood has been unmasked:the FBI 

tells us that actually 12 percent of all homicides take place within the 

family. Ihave heard no public official anywhere in the United States say a 

word about any of this.<P>

There is another important aspect to the arithmetic: the odds facing a 

robber or holdup man as he decides whether to let his victim live. Again, 

at least 48 percent of city homicides are stranger murders, but only 12 

percent of city homicides result in arrest. That is, the odds that a 

holdup man who kills a stranger will be arrested appear to be one in four. 

The Department of Justice tells us that of all those who are arrested for 

murder, 73 percent will be convicted of some crime; and when convicted, 

the killers of strangers tend to get the heaviest penalties. Nevertheless, 

the cumulative chances of getting clean away with the murder of a stranger 

are greater than 80 percent. Street thugs may be smarter than they are 

usually given credit for being. They do not consult government reports, 

but they appear to know the facts. New York bodega workers have 

experienced an increasing incidence of holdups ending in murder even when 

they have offered no resistance. Killing eliminates the possibility of 

witness identification. <P>

Murder is the most frightening crime, but is the least common. Much more 

frequent are robbery and assault. Robbery, the forcible taking of property 

from the person of the victim, is the crime most likely to be committed by 

a stranger; 75 percent of victims are robbed by strangers. Aggravated 

assault, the use of a weapon or other major force with the intention of 

causing serious bodily harm, is the most common violent crime; 58 percent 

of aggravated assaults are committed by strangers. <P>

Attacks across racial lines are a special case of crimes by strangers. 

Most crimes, including 80 percent of violent crimes, are committed by 

persons of the same race as their victims. However, the experiences of 

blacks and whites diverge in some respects. In cases involving a lone 

offender, 56 percent of white and Hispanic robbery victims report that 

their assailant was white or Hispanic and 40 percent that he was black. 

When two or more robbers commit the crime, white and Hispanic victims 38 

percent of the time report them to be white or Hispanic, 46 percent of the 

time black, and 10 percent of the time mixed. About eight percent of black 

victims, in contrast, are robbed by whites or Hispanics, and more than 85 

percent by blacks, whether the offenders are alone or in groups. Blacks 

and whites are robbed equally--75 percent of the time--by strangers, but 

as these figures indicate, whites are far more likely to be robbed by 

strangers of a different race. <P>

This result occurs because there are many more white people and many more 

white victims: 87 percent of all violent crimes are committed against 

whites and Hispanics. In robberies lone white offenders select white 

victims 96 percent of the time, and lone black offenders select white 

victims 62 percent of the time. White rapists select white victims 97 

percent of the time; black rapists select white victims 48 percent of the 

time. Whites committing aggravated assault attack blacks in three percent 

of cases; blacks commit about half their assaults against whites.<P>

When all violent crimes are taken together, 58 percent of white victims 

and 54 percent of black victims report that their assailant was a 

stranger. Citizens of all races who are fearful of random violence have 

good reason for their concern. Storekeepers, utility workers, police 

officers, and ordinary citizens out for a carton of milk or a family 

dinner are all increasingly at risk.<P>

<BR>



<B>TOWARD A RACE BEHIND BARS</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>n 1990 federal, state, and local governments combined spent about $8,921 

per person. According to the Department of Justice, these governments 

spent $299 per person--about 3.3 percent of total public expenditures--on 

all civil- and criminal-justice activities, including $128 per person on 

domestic police protection. On national defense and international 

relations they spent $1,383 per person.<P>

Spending on the Armed Forces has historically risen to meet perceived 

threats from hostile nations, or in case of rebellion. Sharply rising 

crime rates have not brought equivalent increases in police forces. From 

1971 to 1990, as the rates of homicide and other violent crimes soared, 

per person expenditures (in constant dollars) on state and local police 

forces increased by only 12 percent.  Spending did increase on prisons--by 

more than 150 percent. In 1992 state and federal prisons held 883,656 

inmates (local jails held another 444,584). Out of every 100,000 residents 

of the United States, 344 were in prison (another 174 were in jail). 

Prison populations increased another seven percent in 1993, by which year 

2.9 times as many people were incarcerated as had been in 1980.<P>

The overwhelming majority of prison inmates are male. Of the 789,700 male 

inmates in 1992, 51 percent, or 401,700, were black, and nearly all the 

remaining 388,000 white. (Here Hispanics are included in both categories; 

according to the Department of Justice, 93 percent of Hispanic prisoners 

describe themselves as white and seven percent as black. Asians and Native 

Americans make up at most 2.5 percent of all prisoners.) Rates of 

imprisonment by race are therefore very different. In 1992, of every 

100,000 white and Hispanic male residents, 372 were prisoners. Of every 

100,000 black male residents, 2,678 were prisoners. <P>

The heaviest rates of imprisonment affect men aged twenty to forty. 

Although the overall imprisonment rate for black men is 2,678 per 100,000, 

it reaches 7,210 for every 100,000 aged twenty-five to twenty

nine, and 6,299 for those aged thirty to thirty-four. At any one time six 

to seven percent of black men at these critical ages are in state and 

federal prisons. <P>

(Most arrests, and most new prison sentences, are not for violent crimes. 

In 1992 only 28.5 percent of offenders sentenced to state prisons had been 

convicted of violent offenses; 31.2 percent had been convicted of property 

offenses, and 30.5 percent of drug offenses. These numbers represent a 

major change in just over a decade: in 1980, 48.2 percent of newly 

sentenced offenders had been convicted of violent offenses, and only 6.8 

percent of drug offenses. The Department of Justice has argued that many 

people convicted of nonviolent drug crimes have also committed violent 

offenses. But there can be no question that the police are making more 

drug arrests and relatively fewer arrests for violent crimes. For the past 

five years drug arrests have averaged one million a year, and arrests for 

all violent crimes combined about 600,000.) <P>

A study was made of black men aged eighteen to thirty-four in the District 

of Columbia. On any given day in 1991, 15 percent of the men were in 

prison, 21 percent were on probation or parole, and six percent were being 

sought by the police or were on bond awaiting trial. The total thus 

involved with the criminal-justice system was 42 percent. The study 

estimated that 70 percent of black men in the District of Columbia would 

be arrested before the age of thirty-five, and that 85 percent would be 

arrested at some point in their lives.  There have been no studies of the 

effects of such high imprisonment rates on the wider black society--for 

example, on the children of prisoners. No government or private agency has 

suggested any way to lighten the influence of paternal and sibling 

imprisonment on children, or how to balance the potential value of such an 

effort against the need to suppress violent crimes. Although the crime 

bill will substantially expand prison space, no one has asked how much 

further we can go--whether it is possible, practically, socially, or 

morally, to imprison some larger proportion of the black male population 

at any one time.<P>

<BR>



<B>WHAT'S ALREADY SPOKEN FOR</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>n 1965 Daniel Patrick Moynihan warned that a growing proportion of black 

children were being born to single mothers. When such large numbers of 

children were abandoned by their fathers and brought up by single mothers, 

he said, the result was sure to be wild violence and social chaos. He was 

excoriated as a racist and the subject was abandoned. The national rate of 

illegitimacy among blacks that year was 26 percent.<P>

It took just over a decade for the black illegitimacy rate to reach 50 

percent. And in 1990, twenty-five years after Moynihan's warning, two 

thirds of black children were born to single mothers, many of them 

teenagers. Only a third of black children lived with both parents even in 

the first three years of their lives. Seven percent of all black children 

and five percent of black children under the age of three were living with 

neither a father nor a mother in the house. The rate of illegitimacy more 

than doubled in one generation.<P>

Social disorder--in its many varieties, and with the assistance of 

government policies--can perhaps be said to have caused the sudden 

collapse of family institutions and social bonds that had survived three 

centuries of slavery and oppression. It is at any rate certain that 

hundreds of thousands of the children so abandoned have become in their 

turn a major cause of instability. Most notably they have tended to commit 

crimes, especially violent crimes, out of all proportion to their numbers. 

Of all juveniles confined for violent offenses today, less than 30 percent 

grew up with both parents. <P>

How many killers are there, and who are they? In 1990 a total of 24,932 

homicides were reported. Of all killers identified by the nation's police 

forces and reported to the Department of Justice for that year, 43.7 

percent were white and Hispanic and 54.7 percent were black. Whites made 

up 83.9 percent of the population that year, and blacks 12.3 percent. The 

rate of homicide committed by whites was thus 5.2 per 100,000, and by 

blacks 44.7 per 100,000--or about eight times as great. In the large 

counties analyzed by the Department of Justice, 62 percent of identified 

killers were black. This is equivalent to a black homicide rate of 50.7 

per 100,000--close to ten times the rate among other citizens. <P>

Serial killers and mass murderers, however, are overwhelmingly white.<P>

Of the urban killers identified by the Department of Justice in 1988, 90 

percent were male. Virtually none were aged fourteen or younger, but 16 

percent were aged fifteen to nineteen, 24 percent were twenty to twenty

four, and 20 percent were twenty-five to twenty-nine. <P>

The white and black populations each suffered about 12,000 homicides in 

1990. But the black population base is smaller, and the rate at which 

blacks fall victim is much higher. The victimization rate for white males 

was 9.0 per 100,000, and for white females 2.8 per 100,000. For black 

males it was an astonishing 69.2, and for black females it was 13.5. 

According to the Department of Justice, one out of every twenty-one black 

men can expect to be murdered. This is a death rate double that of 

American servicemen in the Second World War. Prospects for the future are 

apparent in the facts known about children already born. This is what 

Senator Moynihan means when he says the next thirty years are "already 

spoken for." <P>

We first notice the children of the ghetto when they grow muscles--at 

about the age of fifteen. The children born in 1965 reached their 

fifteenth year in 1980, and 1980 and 1981 set new records for criminal 

violence in the United States, as teenage and young adult blacks ripped at 

the fabric of life in the black inner city. Nevertheless, of all the black 

children who reached physical maturity in those years, three quarters had 

been born to a married mother and father. Not until 1991 did we experience 

the arrival in their mid-teens of the first group of black youths fully 

half of whom had been born to single mothers--the cohort born in 1976. 

Criminal violence particularly associated with young men and boys reached 

new peaks of destruction in black communities in 1990 and 1991.<P>

In the year 2000 the black youths born in 1985 will turn fifteen. Three 

fifths of them were born to single mothers, many of whom were drug

addicted; one in fourteen will have been raised with neither parent at 

home; unprecedented numbers will have been subjected to beatings and other 

abuse; and most will have grown up amid the utter chaos pervading black 

city neighborhoods. It is supremely necessary to change the conditions 

that are producing such cohorts. But no matter what efforts we now 

undertake, we have already assured the creation of more very violent young 

men than any reasonable society can tolerate, and their numbers will grow 

inexorably for every one of the next twenty years. <P>

In absolute numbers the teenage and young adult population aged fifteen to 

twenty-four stagnated or actually declined over the past decade. Crime has 

been rising because this smaller population has grown disproportionately 

more violent. Now it is about to get larger in size. James Fox, a dean at 

Northeastern University, in Boston, has shown that from 1965 to 1985 the 

national homicide rate tracked almost exactly the proportion of the 

population aged eighteen to twenty-four. Suddenly, in 1985, the two curves 

diverged sharply. The number of young adults as a proportion of the 

population declined; but the overall homicide rate went up, because among 

this smaller group the homicide rate increased by 65 percent in just eight 

years. Among those aged fourteen to seventeen, the next group of young 

adults, the homicide rate more than doubled. What we experienced from 1985 

on was a conjunction of two terrible arrivals. One train carried the 

legacy of the 1970s, the children of the explosion of illegitimacy and 

paternal abandonment. Crack arrived on the same timetable, and unloaded at 

the same station. <P>

Fox shows further that by the year 2005 the population aged fourteen to 

seventeen will have increased by a remarkable 23 percent. Professor John 

DeIulio, of Princeton University, predicts that the number of homicides 

may soon rise to 35,000 or 40,000 a year, with other violent offenses 

rising proportionally. Fox calls what we are about to witness an 

"epidemic" of teenage crime. He does not give a name to our present 

condition.<P>

<BR>



<B>GUNS</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>t is a commonplace that many crimes are committed with guns, particularly 

handguns. In 1993, 69.6 percent of all homicides were committed by gun, 

four fifths of these by handgun. Guns were also used in 42.4 percent of 

all robberies and 25.1 percent of aggravated assaults. The total of such 

gun felonies reported to the police was about 571,000. <P>

As long as surveys have asked the question, about half of all American 

households have answered that they own at least one gun. Patterns of 

ownership, however, have changed. In the 1960s weapons used primarily for 

sport--rifles and shotguns--made up 80 percent of the approximately 80 

million guns in private hands. About 12 percent of the population reported 

owning one or more handguns. By 1976, with the great postwar crime wave 

under way, more than 21 percent of the population reported owning 

handguns--an increase of 75 percent. The largest increases were among 

nonwhites (by 99 percent), college graduates (by 147 percent), and Jews 

(by 679 percent, to a total of 14.8 percent reporting handgun ownership, 

which left them well behind Protestants but ahead of Catholics). By 1978 

the estimate of total number of guns owned had increased to roughly 120 

million. <P>

In every year since, at least four million new guns have been manufactured 

or imported. In 1993 there were 5.1 million guns manufactured and another 

2.9 million imported. Of the eight million new guns in 1993, half--3.9 

million--were handguns. The current estimate is that more than 200 million 

guns are in private hands.<P>

Twenty states allow any law-abiding citizen to carry a gun concealed on 

his or her person, and fourteen more states are actively considering such 

laws. In some of the states where the laws have passed, about two percent 

(Oregon and Florida) or three percent (Pennsylvania)of the state's 

population have applied for and received a permit to carry a concealed 

handgun at all times. There is evidence that many people own and carry 

handguns without permits. One 1991 survey reported that a third of all 

Americans own handguns, another that seven percent carry them outside the 

home. A quarter of small business establishments may keep firearms for 

protection. <P>

Last year The New York Times said that the city's bodegas had become 

"Islands Under Siege," in which fifty store workers were killed in a year. 

It reported on Omar Rosario, the manager of a grocery store whose previous 

owner was killed in a holdup. Rosario prepares for work by donning a 

bulletproof vest and sliding a nine-millimeter semi-automatic into his 

waistband. When a young man with one arm hidden inside his coat enters the 

store, "Mr. Rosario takes out his pistol and eases it halfway into the 

pocket of his pants, his finger on the trigger. He faces the man and lets 

him see the gun in his hand. He wants to make it clear that if the young 

man pulls a gun, he will be killed."<P>

Professor Gary Kleck, of Florida State University, has made a close 

examination of citizens' use of firearms for self-defense, including in 

"civilian legal defensive homicides." Self-defense is not a crime, and 

most defensive uses of firearms, even when criminals are killed, are not 

routinely reported to the FBI. On the basis of local studies Kleck 

estimates that at least 1,500 citizens used guns to kill criminals in 

1980. This is nearly three times the number of criminals killed by the 

police. The Department of Justice thinks these numbers may be too high. 

Nevertheless, it is evident that Omar Rosario is not the only citizen with 

his finger on the trigger. <P>

<BR>



<B>BEYOND THE NUMBERS</B><P>



<font size=5>F</font>or more than twenty years the children of the ghetto have witnessed 

violent death as an almost routine occurrence. They have seen it on their 

streets, in their schools, in their families, and on TV. They have lived 

with constant fear. Many have come to believe that they will not live to 

see twenty-five. These are often children whose older brothers, friends, 

and uncles have taught them that only the strong and the ruthless survive. 

Prison does not frighten them--it is a rite of passage that a majority of 

their peers may have experienced. Too many have learned to kill without 

remorse, for a drug territory or for an insult, because of a look or a 

bump on the sidewalk, or just to do it: why not?<P>

These young people have been raised in the glare of ceaseless media 

violence and incitement to every depravity of act and spirit. Movies may 

feature scores of killings in two hours' time, vying to show methods ever 

more horrific; many are quickly imitated on the street. Television 

commercials teach that a young man requires a new pair of $120 sneakers 

each week. Major corporations make and sell records exhorting their 

listeners to brutalize Koreans, rob store owners, rape women, kill the 

police. Ashamed and guilt-ridden, elite opinion often encourages even 

hoodlums to carry a sense of entitlement and grievance against society and 

its institutions. <P>

These lessons are being taught to millions of children as I write and you 

read. They have already been taught to the age groups that will reach 

physical maturity during the rest of this century. <P>

The worst lesson we have taught these benighted children I have saved for 

last, because it is a lesson we have also taught ourselves: We will do 

almost anything not to have to act to defend ourselves, our country, or 

our character as people of decency and strength. We have fled from our 

cities, virtually abandoning great institutions such as the public 

schools. We have permitted the spread within our country of wastelands 

ruled not by the Constitution and lawful authority but by the anarchic 

force of merciless killers. We have muted our dialogue and hidden our 

thoughts. We have abandoned millions of our fellow citizens--people of 

decency and honor trying desperately to raise their children in love and 

hope--to every danger and degraded assault. We have become isolated from 

one another, dispirited about any possibility of collective or political 

action to meet this menace. We shrink in fear of teenage thugs on every 

street. More important, we shrink even from contemplating the forceful 

collective action we know is required. We abandon our self-respect and our 

responsibility to ourselves and our posterity.<P>

How to change all this, how to recover heart and spirit, how to save the 

lives and souls of millions of children, and how to save ourselves from 

this scourge of violent anarchy--in short, how to deal with things as they 

are, how to respond to the implacable and undeniable numbers: this will be 

the real measure and test of our political system. But more than that, it 

will be the measure of our own days and work, the test of our own lives 

and heritage. <P>

<BR>



<B>WHERE DO WE START?<BR>

A MODEST RADICALISM</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>n the past decade 200,000 of our citizens have been killed and millions 

wounded. If we assume, with the FBI, that 47 percent of them were killed 

by friends and family members, that leaves 106,000 dead at the hands of 

strangers. Ten years of war in Vietnam killed 58,000 Americans. Over an 

equal period we have had almost the exact equivalent of two Vietnam Wars 

right here at home. Whether fighting the war or fighting against the war, 

participants and opponents alike engaged Vietnam with fury and passion and 

a desperate energy. Were we to find such energy, such passion, now, how 

might we use it? Where would we start? I suggest simplicity. If your 

territory and your citizens are under constant deadly assault, the first 

thing you do is protect them.<P>

To do this we need forces. We need a very large number of additional 

police officers: at least half a million in the next five years, and 

perhaps more thereafter. We do not need more private police, who protect 

only the circumscribed property of better-off citizens who can afford to 

pay; we need public police, whose mission is the protection of all 

citizens, and who are available for work in the ghettos and housing 

projects where most of the dying is taking place.<P>

If we as a society expect black citizens to construct reasonable lives, we 

cannot continue to abandon so many of them and their children to criminal 

depredation. If we expect children to respect law and the rights of 

others, it would seem elementary that we must respect the law and their 

rights enough to keep them from getting murdered.<P>

We need a larger police force not to imprison more of our fellow citizens 

but to liberate them. The police need not function as the intake valve of 

a criminal-justice system devoted to the production of more prison 

inmates, of whom we already have more than is healthy; their true role is 

to suppress violence and criminal activity, to protect public space that 

now serves as the playground and possession of the violent. The role of 

the police is to guard schools and homes, neighborhoods and commerce, and 

to protect life; they should represent the basic codes and agreements by 

which we live with one another. Today's vastly undermanned police forces, 

whose officers race from call to call, taking endless reports of crimes 

they were not around to prevent, do not control the streets. They do not 

exercise and cannot embody the authority for which we look to government. 

Rather, it is the most violent young men of the street who set the tone 

and filter the light in which the children of the city are growing. That 

is what we need at least half a million new officers just to begin to 

change.<P>

Some will ask how we are to afford the $30 billion or so a year that this 

would cost. The question has a ready answer. We have a gross domestic 

product of more than $6 trillion, and a federal budget of more than $1.6 

trillion. President Clinton has requested $261.4 billion for defense 

against foreign enemies who killed fewer than a hundred Americans in all 

of last year. It would be silly to suggest that the federal government 

should not or cannot spend an eighth as much--two percent of even a 

shrunken federal budget--to defend the nation against domestic enemies who 

killed more than 10,000 people who were strangers to them in 1994, and who 

will surely kill more in every year that lies ahead. <P>

This is not a complete program, because this is not the time for a 

complete program. We have to stop the killing. Beyond doubt we must reform 

welfare, minimize illegitimacy, change the schools, strengthen employment 

opportunities, end racism. In the midst of this war, while the killing 

continues, all that is just talk. And dishonest talk besides: there can be 

no truth to our public discussions while whites are filled with fear of 

black violence, and blacks live every day with the fear and bitter 

knowledge that they and their children have been abandoned to the rule of 

criminals. If some foreign enemy had invaded New England, slaughtering its 

people and plundering its wealth, would we be debating agricultural 

subsidies and the future of Medicaid while complaining that the deficit 

prevented us from enlarging the Army or buying more ammunition? Would the 

budget really force us to abandon New Hampshire? Why is this case 

different?<P>

<BR>



<B>NONE OF THIS IS NECESSARY</B><P>



<font size=5>S</font>ome people will say that I propose an army of occupation. But all too 

many black citizens already live in territories occupied by hostile bands 

of brigands. How can these citizens be freed except by forces devoted to 

their liberation? <P>

It is true that the police, especially in the ghettos of older cities, 

have often been corrupt, brutal, and ineffective, although they are almost 

always better than most of their critics. The remedy for bad policing is 

for good people to join the police force and make it better: that is why 

the one truly promising feature of the 1994 crime bill is the creation of 

a prototype Police Corps, a police ROTC that will offer four-year college 

scholarships to the best and most committed of our young people in return 

for four years of police service following their graduation. Now and for 

many years into the future the opportunity to give the greatest service to 

one's fellow citizens will be as a member of a police force --the one 

truly indispensable agency of a free and civil government.<P>

Others will say--not openly, because this kind of thing is never said 

openly--that it's hopeless, and that the best we can hope for is that the 

killers will kill one another and leave the rest of us alone. Indeed, a 

visitor from another planet might well conclude that only such a belief 

could explain our society's otherwise inexplicable passivity. History 

should save us from such vile and horrible thoughts. Despite all 

vicissitudes, within two generations of Emancipation black families had 

achieved levels of stability and nurture comparable or superior to those 

of many immigrant groups. The long history of black people in America has 

not been one of violent or cruel conduct beyond the national norm. Rather, 

it is a story of great heroism and dignity, of a steady upward course from 

slavery to just the other day. <P>

The collapse of the black lower class is a creation not of history but of 

this generation. It has been a deliberate if misguided act of government 

to create a welfare system that began the destruction of black family 

life. It was the dominant culture that desanctified morality, celebrated 

license, and glorified fecklessness; as the columnist Joe Klein has 

observed, it is in moral conduct above all that the rich catch cold and 

the poor get pneumonia. It was stupidity and cowardice, along with a 

purposeful impulse toward justice, that led the entire governmental 

apparatus, the system of law enforcement and social control, to cede the 

black ghettos to self-rule and virtual anarchy in the 1960s and 1970s, and 

to abandon them entirely since. It is the evident policy of the 

entertainment industry to seek profit by exploiting the most degraded 

aspects of human and social character. None of this is necessary. All of 

it can be changed.<P>

I have spoken of the need to change conditions among blacks, because they 

are experiencing the greatest suffering and the gravest danger today. But 

let none of us pretend that the bell tolls only for blacks; there is no 

salvation for one race alone, no hope for separate survival. At stake for 

all of us is the future of American cities, the promise of the American 

nation, and the survival of our Constitution and of American democracy 

itself.<P>



	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1995 by Adam Walinsky.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; July 1995; The Crisis of Public Order; Volume 276, 

No. 1; pages 39-54.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-22</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B039-36</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/neelycri.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117193123 text/html 29905
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:31:06 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:11:19 GMT
Content-length: 29699
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Politics of Crime by Richard Neely

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>August 1982</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			The Politics of Crime

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Richard Neely</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote> 

  

  <center>

  

	<i><font size=4>Why governments don't do what they could to 

	reduce violent crime.</i></font><p>

	

  </center>	

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>hrough at least the past decade, no public problem has worried Americans 

more persistently than crime. When people are asked in opinion surveys to 

list the problems that concern them most, the threat of crime typically 

comes at or near the top of the list. But when the same people list the 

issues on which they'll decide which candidate to vote for, crime usually 

comes behind half-a-dozen other subjects. The explanation they offer most 

frequently is that a candidate's statements about crime are 

unimportant--no one can do much about the problem.<P>



What is misguided about this attitude is that it is possible to do 

something about crime. Although the evidence lacks scientific precision, 

certain facts of criminal-law enforcement are clear:<P>



In many big cities, where the limit on crime is the presence of the police 

(as opposed to family members, watchful neighbors, and the like, who limit 

crime elsewhere), more officers on the streets or in the subways means 

fewer criminals who dare to act. But in courtrooms, most accused criminals 

go free because the system cannot afford to have it any other way. 

Everyone involved in the criminal courts is overtaxed, from the policemen, 

who must take time off the beat to testify, to the prosecutors, who need 

to dispose of cases as quickly as possible, to the judges, who know as 

they make their sentencing decisions that the prisons are already 

overcrowded. The result of this pressure is the plea-bargain, in which a 

man who faces, for example, a ten-year sentence with a three-year minimum 

term if convicted of armed robbery will instead plead guilty to grand 

larceny and end up serving one year in jail.<P>



Many people complain that plea-bargaining returns criminals to the 

streets, but few have considered the statistics that lie behind this 

practice. There are nearly 104,000 felony arrests in New York City every 

year. New York City has facilities for only about 5,000 full-blown jury 

trials per year, so it is forced to do what nearly all city courts must: 

find some way to dispose of the surplus, usually through plea-bargaining 

or dropped charges. Many of the people thereby freed undoubtedly belong in 

jail, and the crime rate would undoubtedly fall if they were imprisoned. 

All that is required is money--for police, prosecutors, judges, and 

jails.<P>



Why, then, have we not taken steps we know would have some effect? The 

answers are complicated, but chief among them is that for every proposal 

that might be made to reduce crime, there is a powerful, organized 

interest that opposes it. These obstructive groups often include the most 

influential force of all, the middle-class interests that so frequently 

complain about the threat of crime.<P>



This problem is intimately connected with the general difficulties of 

American courts, but not the courts as they are usually conceived. When 

lay people speak of the courts, they often mean judges and attendant 

judicial staffs of clerks and secretaries. However, the term "courts" must 

be expanded when we talk of criminal law to encompass all of the 

supporting agencies that either feed criminals to the judges or receive 

them after conviction. When courts are understood in this way, it becomes 

clear that improving their operations can be costly. Doubling the number 

of policemen and prosecutors would spare many people the costs they now 

bear as victims of crime, but it would increase the costs many others 

would pay in taxes.<P>



As is often the case, the people who stand to gain the most from this 

protection are the ones with the least say about how public money is 

spent. The primary victims of crime pay the lowest taxes. Most victims of 

crime live in ghettos or declining working-class neighborhoods, and they 

work at low-wage jobs in places such as all-night diners or gas stations, 

which are easy to rob. But the taxpayers who would bear the cost of better 

protection for these victims are themselves seldom victims--they are 

instead large corporations with privately retained security forces, or 

middle-class taxpayers who live in well-protected neighborhoods and send 

their children to safe neighborhood schools or private schools.<P>



Although it might not seem in the interest of the middle-class to pay for 

increased enforcement, the cost of crime in the United States runs to 

hundreds of billions of dollars every year--much more than increased 

enforcement would cost. Shoplifting alone accounts for a loss of between 3 

and 7 percent of all merchandise inventoried for sale by large chain 

stores, which means we all pay 3 to 7 percent more for our routine dry

goods purchases.<P>



Moreover, criminal courts and their supporting agencies--unlike most 

government operations--actually generate revenue. At the simplest level, 

traffic courts and magistrate courts make more money from fees and fines 

than it costs to operate them. When state or local business regulations 

are enforced, the fines augment the treasury. Low crime rates also 

contribute to a desirable climate for industry, commerce, and residences, 

which in turn means higher property values and a stronger tax base. Lack 

of funding for the courts must be something more than just a reflection of 

overall budget constraints; while budget considerations do play a part, 

underfunding is often deliberate, purposeful, and unrelated to the 

budget.<P>



One simple example should illustrate the point. Cheating on federal and 

state income taxes is pervasive in all classes of society; except among 

the compulsively honest, cheating usually occurs in direct proportion to 

opportunity. Why, then, do we not expand the Internal Revenue Service and 

its state counterparts? Every new revenue agent pays his salary and 

overhead at least eight times. The answer is that we do not really want 

Rhadamanthine enforcement of the tax laws. As long as the IRS is 

overworked and understaffed, everyone except the scrupulously honest will 

enact his own personal tax-reform program. The IRS's understaffing also 

guarantees that all but the most flagrant evaders still escape with a 

payment of back taxes and possibly a civil penalty.<P>



Overworked United States attorneys cannot spend their time arguing every 

questionable deduction in tax court. The IRS will challenge a 

businessman's deductions, only to cede most of its points at settlement 

conferences. The mediocre enforcement of the tax codes stems not only from 

the IRS's lack of staff but also from a lack of U.S. attorneys, U.S. 

district court judges, and court-of-appeals judges. Without an increase in 

the personnel of supporting agencies, there is a limit to the 

effectiveness of new IRS agents, but there is no question that such an 

increase will bring in more money than it costs.<P>



Since more rigorous enforcement will inspire a higher level of "voluntary" 

compliance, it must be obvious that some people out there do not want 

better enforcement. I am probably one. I actually do pay every cent I owe 

in taxes, and since I am a public official, I get audited about every four 

years. Notwithstanding my annoyance with those who cheat, I do not want to 

be audited more than once every four years, because it is a nuisance. 

Quite frankly, I prefer to let my neighbor cheat a little rather than be 

bothered with a yearly audit.<P>



Most people probably feel as I do about forgiving their neighbors' tax 

trespasses in return for minimal personal harassment by Uncle Sam, but a 

similar philosophy of live and let live does not exist about violent 

crime. Why, then, do we not double the number of cops and courts?<P>



The reason is both ideological and financial. Policemen, in my experience, 

are by nature bullies as well as heroes, and the smaller the police force, 

the more policemen tend to exhibit the characteristics of heroes rather 

than bullies. But the more policemen who are "cracking down on crime," the 

greater the likelihood that individual citizens will suffer abuse of their 

civil liberties. Work in any bureaucracy tends to expand to fill the time 

allocated to do it. If the police are not busy with serious crime, they 

may meddle in such citizen activities as private poker games, where no one 

wants their help. Consequently, a silent, even unconscious alliance exists 

between pro-civil-liberties liberals, who want small police forces for 

ideological reasons, and conservative taxpayers, who do not want to pay 

the costs of what from their point of view amounts to social services for 

others.<P>



My favorite illustration of the diverse alliances that oppose improvements 

in the criminal-justice system is the repeated failure of a bill that is 

perennially introduced in the West Virginia Legislature. The bill, which 

is introduced at the request of the state attorney general, would give the 

attorney general statewide prosecutorial powers. Under the current system, 

each West Virginia county elects a prosecutor who has absolute discretion 

concerning what crimes will be prosecuted in his county. The attorney 

general handles criminal cases on appeal, defends the state's interests in 

federal habeas corpus proceedings, and represents the state's agencies in 

civil litigation; however, the attorney general has no power to initiate 

prosecutions at the trial-court level in the fifty-five counties. Why 

should there not be a statewide prosecutorial agency, particularly since 

many local prosecutors are reluctant to enforce the law against their 

political friends?<P>



The answer is quite simple. The position of attorney general has 

historically been a stepping-stone to the governorship. Since 1936, four 

out of ten governors held the office of attorney general immediately 

before their election as governor. High elected office has tended to go to 

media stars since the demise of well-organized political machines. Only 

certain types of political antics, however, attract media attention; these 

include crusades against political corruption and white-collar crime. 

Everyone who is actively involved in either business or government is 

aware of the public-relations value of an anti-corruption crusade, yet 

even the consummately honest prefer not to be bothered by one. Zealous 

investigations demand the production of documents, testimony by employees 

on company time, and a costly disruption of normal business operations. 

None of these costs is borne by the government; all must be borne by the 

private sector.<P>



The important facts are that there is less than universal support for the 

enforcement of most laws, from consumer fraud to drug use, and that lack 

of consensus about the value of some types of law enforcement is seen in 

the legislature's failure to establish a statewide enforcement agency.<P>



In West Virginia's four northernmost counties, the population is composed 

largely of the children of Italians, Greeks, Poles, Hungarians, and other 

non-Anglo-Saxon peoples. The biggest illegal gambling institutions used to 

be the churches, which held regular, illegal bingo parties and raised 

significant revenues (bingo games for charitable organizations were 

recently legalized). Other social institutions similarly rely on slot 

machines and football pools; it is a way of life completely different from 

that of the predominantly fundamentalist southern part of the state. Local 

prosecutors in those counties are elected by citizens who expect a policy 

of conspicuous non-enforcement of the gambling laws, at least as they 

apply to churches and social clubs. The last thing on earth they want is a 

statewide strike force destroying their churches and clubs.<P>



In 1977, when John D. Rockefeller IV became governor, his new chief of the 

state police attempted to enforce the gambling laws in the northern 

counties. Within a month, the state police were instructed to back off, 

because it became obvious that continued enforcement would anger every 

member of the legislature from those counties and that, in retaliation, 

those legislators would torpedo the governor's legislative program.<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<font size=5>E</font>very effort at improvement in the criminal justice 

system will seem either helpful or threatening, depending on the 

perspective of some political-interest group.  Thus an increase in the 

number of policemen means more protection to some, more bullying to others.  

If, for example, the staffs of prosecuting attorneys are increased so that 

they can diligently prosecute armed robbers, murderers, and dope peddlers, 

they will also be available to ferret out consumer fraud, anti-trust 

violations, and political corruption.  Since prosecuting attorneys are 

usually elected and, therefore, are lawyers with political ambitions, they 

will be tempted, as in West Virginia, to play to the press by prosecuting 

white collar crime.  These campaigns are middle-class morality plays that 

assuage the newspaper reader's sense of unrecognized merit.  They are 

usually less attractive to the political establishment, however resolute it 

may be about cracking down on murder and armed robbery.  Even firebrand 

political reformers use questionable tactics at election time, and the 

prospect of an elaborate enforcement bureaucracy falling into enemy hands 

is horrifying to politicians.<P>



A classic example of frivolous white-collar-crime prosecution took place 

recently in Pittsburgh. A county commissioner, who was also the county 

Democratic Party chairman, was charged with theft of services during his 

tenure as county coroner. At that time, in addition to being coroner, he 

owned a private laboratory, which did pathology and toxicology testing. It 

was alleged that he brought tissue specimens from his lab to the morgue, 

where they were processed by morgue employees on the county payroll, 

thereby "stealing" $115,000 worth of county services.<P>



The case had all the trappings of a political trial. The defendant, Cyril 

H. Wecht, was highly placed in county politics, so prosecuting him would 

bring much publicity--adverse for Wecht, angelic for the prosecutor. Wecht 

had political enemies even within his own party, and some of them were 

involved in initiating and developing the investigation. Others used the 

investigation and trial as a reason to force him to withdraw from the 

party chairmanship. And the district attorney responsible for the 

prosecution, perhaps trading on the publicity it generated, was running 

for the state supreme court bench at the same time.<P>



Political or not, theft of government services is not a trivial charge. 

But this case certainly was not one of those occasions when an expensive 

jury trial was warranted by any cost-benefit analysis of the "public 

good." Fortunately for Wecht, he was able to hire the nationally known 

trial lawyer Stanley Preiser to defend him. After six weeks of exhaustive 

testimony and with thirty-two cartons of documentary evidence, the jury 

deliberated for ten hours and acquitted Wecht.<P>



The investigation and trial took nearly two years and involved ten 

investigators and seven lawyers from the district attorney's office at one 

time or another. The trial lasted six weeks, and the whole affair was 

estimated to have cost the county about $1.5 million--more than ten times 

the value of the services said to have been stolen. The money spent on the 

trial could have bought almost forty prosecutors for a year at an annual 

salary of $40,000, and they each could have been prosecuting fifty violent 

crimes and property crimes such as murder, rape, arson, armed robbery, and 

larceny--the ones that affect the average citizen's life.<P>



As long as we are talking only about the criminal courts, the questions 

are comparatively simple. But when we add the complications created by the 

civil courts, all bets are off. Devoting more money to the criminal courts 

would return economic dividends to the public, but increased funding for 

the entire court system has a much more mixed effect. Indeed, for certain 

groups, including local governments, businesses, unions, landlords, and 

even tenants, a better-functioning court system would be a calamity.<P>



Consider the case of New York City, which is notorious for its long court 

delays. In the abstract, most New Yorkers would like to have an efficient 

court system so that criminals would be sent away. To the casual observer, 

New York's felon problem would appear easy to solve by increasing the 

number of policemen and prosecutors, and by expanding the court system.<P>



The hitch, however, is that a New York trial-court judge is empowered to 

hear both criminal and civil cases: if the number of judges is increased, 

more civil cases can be heard. Of 26,589 civil cases concluded in New York 

City in the first forty weeks of the 1979-1980 fiscal year, 6,623 were 

against New York City itself. New York City has been on the verge of 

bankruptcy since 1976, and the policies of the Reagan Administration 

threaten even greater financial strains in the next two and a half years. 

The potential liability for New York City from the civil suits currently 

awaiting trial runs to billions of dollars. New York City cannot afford an 

efficient court system, because it would be bankrupt beyond bail-out if 

all these suits came to trial in one or two years.<P>



New York is an extraordinary example, but legal-aid and other public

interest lawyers elsewhere are bringing suits challenging the standards of 

operation in mental hospitals, prisons, schools, and other state and local 

facilities. When courts take action in these areas, it can mean that local 

governments must spend millions or even billions of dollars they never 

planned to. In New Jersey, for example. the state supreme court ordered 

the legislature to enact an income tax to support the public schools. This 

required the allocation of state money to projects that judges wanted 

rather than to projects that the governor and the legislators wanted.<P>



The moral of these stories is that the costs of creating more courts, 

along with all their supporting staff, are but a fraction of the total 

amount of money that an expansion of the courts will eventually involve. 

Typically, the entire judicial branch of government takes less than 2 

percent of any state's budget. In New York City, the cost of doubling the 

number of judges, prosecutors, city attorneys, courtrooms, and supporting 

staff would be small compared with the cost of paying the judgments the 

new courts would render against the city.<P>



In other parts of the United States, there are powerful private interests 

in the same position as New York City: they are not in the least 

interested in improving the efficiency of civil courts. If, for instance, 

litigation against insurance companies takes eight years to complete, the 

company has the use of its money for eight years, and can invest it during 

that period at between 10 and 18 percent. Furthermore, delay alone is a 

powerful force to inspire settlements for low sums. Since most federal and 

state courts are unified criminal and civil tribunals, in which any judge 

can hear either type of case, the positive economic effect for the general 

public of improved criminal courts is almost always offset by increased 

costs on the civil side for those who have the most political power. The 

public takes its accustomed beating.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>I</font>f expanding the courts has varied effects, some of them welcomed and some 

of them abhorred by powerful political groups, the logical solution would 

be to separate the courts' various functions. We might create institutions 

that would work in areas where there is broad agreement--

such as fighting violent crime--while avoiding other areas. Everyone wants 

violent criminals prosecuted and the streets made safe. During the 1960s 

and 1970s, there were numerous programs that attempted to get at the root 

causes of crime--slums, broken families, unemployment. While we have not 

abandoned these efforts, there is an increasing awareness that we do not 

have either the resources or the knowledge to reduce violent crime through 

preventive means, and this lack should not be used as an excuse for doing 

nothing.<P>



New institutions will not be developed, however, until there is an 

organized citizen lobby that makes campaign contributions, sends out 

direct-mail newsletters about how elected officials perform in the area of 

court reform, and has representatives entering into the give-and-take of 

political bargaining in the committee rooms and the corridors of 

legislatures. Until there is such a lobby around which political support 

can coalesce, politically workable plans will not be generated. Since 

there is no active citizen lobby for court reform, and since, to the 

contrary, all of the day-to-day political rewards go to those who oppose 

court reform, the legislative branch is entirely indifferent to the 

courts. In fact, I cannot think of any other subject of major social 

concern that intrudes itself less upon the imagination of the average 

legislator than the courts. Yet court reform, albeit in simplistic terms, 

is the frequent subject of campaign rhetoric, which gives the illusion 

that politicians have some continuing interest in the subject. Sadly, the 

courts are usually regarded in the same light as is the Federal Reserve 

Board--as an institution that is to be reviled and attacked but ultimately 

to be left unchanged.<P>



The history of the environmental movement suggests the direction that a 

citizens' movement could take. Environmental and conservation issues used 

to be as low a legislative priority as court reform is today. But in the 

early 1960s, the whole question of pollution control and conservation of 

unspoiled wilderness captured the imagination of the college-educated 

middle class. Suddenly, defense of the environment took on the aura of a 

religious crusade. Groups such as the Sierra Club organized on the 

national level, and in every state local groups developed and kept in 

communication with one another.<P>



The reform of the criminal law may be ripe for the same type of crusade 

that the environmentalists led fifteen years ago. Most street crime is, to 

be sure, perpetrated upon the poor, because they must live where the 

criminals are. But crime has risen to a level that intrudes itself into 

the lives of many middle-class citizens on a daily basis. It is the middle 

class that has organizational and political skills, along with a spare 

hundred dollars to contribute to a political-action group. It was 

essentially the middle class that accomplished the environmental 

revolution.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>T</font>he beginnings of a citizen lobby for better law enforcement can already 

be perceived. In West Virginia last year, the relatives of persons killed 

by drunk drivers organized themselves to make the drunk-driving penalties 

more severe. In general, the enforcement of the drunk-driving laws in the 

United States is a disgrace. But last year, the public outcry against 

drunk drivers was such that the West Virginia Legislature made drunk 

driving a serious offense, amending the law to include a no-nonsense 

procedure for enforcement.<P>



West Virginia's decision to crack down on drunk driving was not unique; 

several other states amended their laws last year with spectacular 

results. In California, for example, after a new drunk-driving law went 

into effect, the highway death toll during the Christmas season was 

reduced by 50 percent over the previous year.<P>



Drunk driving differs from other criminal questions in that it is a 

comparatively easily understood problem and there is no political pressure 

to protect drunk drivers. Although there is no pressure to protect any 

criminal who strikes at random, the more a criminal activity looks like a 

regular business--car theft, gambling, drug sales--the more criminals 

organize to influence the political process. Even more important in the 

passage of the drunk-driving laws, perhaps, was the lack of debate about 

what would reduce drunk driving. Everyone agreed that strict sanctions, 

quickly applied, would do the trick for the occasional drunk, and that 

permanent revocation of their licenses would keep most of the habitual 

drunks off the road. Like the environmental movement, the lobby against 

drunk driving knew just what it wanted.<P>



By contrast, efforts within the political system to improve the criminal

justice system often stall because of the timeless debate about stricter 

enforcement versus elimination of the root causes of crime. The advantage 

of a citizen lobby seriously concerned with an improved criminal-justice 

system is that citizens want protection--they are content if the symptoms 

of the disease can be controlled, and that is probably the practical 

approach for the foreseeable future.<P>



It is important to differentiate between traditional law-and-order 

rhetoric and real criminal-law reform. Traditional law-and-order rhetoric 

addresses itself primarily to the decisions of the United States Supreme 

Court since Miranda v. Arizona in 1966, when the Supreme Court began the 

wholesale reform of the criminal law in order to further civil rights and 

civil liberties. A return to police brutality, official harassment of the 

lower socio-economic class, and kangaroo-court summary convictions by 

forced guilty pleas is not my idea of criminal-law reform. It is possible 

to have a well-functioning system of criminal-law enforcement without the 

violations of personal integrity inherent in the police state. But it 

would be expensive.<P>



In my estimation, a good criminal-justice system that reduces violent and 

petty crime to roughly one fifth of their current level could be 

established with substantially less political activism than was required 

for environmental reform. Furthermore, the costs to the nation of criminal

law reform would be dramatically less than those of the environmental 

movement, although they would all be borne directly by the taxpayers 

instead of being paid for through the inflation of consumer prices, as was 

the case with most environmental reforms. Cleaning up the environment 

exacted its costs through lost jobs, higher utility bills, and more 

expensive automobiles. Criminal-law reform will cost higher taxes.<P>



It is not necessary that everyone suddenly become interested in criminal

law reform. After all, the number of voters who were actively dedicated to 

the ecology revolution was comparatively small. Extremely effective 

interest groups--the National Rifle Association, for example--are 

comparatively small in terms of active members. It must be remembered that 

politicians are not concerned with influencing everyone who is eligible to 

vote--just the 21 to 65 percent, depending on the election, who actually 

come to the polls. It is the militant and not the indifferent voter who 

must be satisfied first.<P>





	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1982 by Richard Neely.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; August 1982; The Politics of Crime; Volume 258, 

No. 2; pages 27-31.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-23</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B042-108</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/family/growing.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117195203 text/html 47863
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:51:53 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:51:15 GMT
Content-length: 47657
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Growing Up Scared
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>June 1990</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Growing Up Scared

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Karl Zinsmeister</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>Spurred on by family instability, violent crime now touches millions of 
young lives. The control of crime in the streets, in the schools, and in 
the home ought to be the pre-eminent "children's issue"</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>C</font>rime does not wash over all Americans equally. It especially terrorizes 
the weakest and most vulnerable among us. Three quarters of America's 64 
million children live in metropolitan areas, a fifth live in low-income 
households, at least a tenth come home after school to a house containing 
no adult, and all are physically immature and incompletely formed in 
character. These are the people who suffer most when law and order decay. 
Children need order. Aside from love and sustenance, there is nothing they 
need more than order.<P>
Law enforcement is often presented as a conservative issue, but today 
there is a powerful bleeding-heart justification for getting tough on 
crime: to protect child welfare. Physical safety and psychological 
security are the foundations--the essential preconditions--for a child's 
health, education, and overall development. A good school, an accessible 
doctor, a rich library, a 15 percent increase in the Head Start 
budget--these are of little use to a child sharing an apartment with his 
mother's abusive, violent, drug-selling boyfriend, or to a child who fears 
the very sidewalks, or to one who cannot find a safe haven even in the 
classroom. In failing to insulate our children from criminal activity, we 
are jeopardizing the future of millions of American youngsters.<P>
Yet none of the established children's-defense organizations has 
emphasized public order as an issue of supreme importance to the young. 
Why have those who claim to speak in behalf of children made no outcry for 
tougher laws, no-nonsense sentencing, more police officers, more prisons, 
safer schools, and less drugs? Why have they initiated no campaign for 
putting the full weight of public protection on the side of babies and 
schoolchildren, instead of on the side of mothers who poison their own 
offspring with crack, and gang members who bring guns into classrooms?<P>
The present state of affairs is intolerable. It is time to compile a new 
list of "children's issues," and to put crime reduction at the top.<P>
<BR><p>
 <b>IS IT REALLY THAT BAD?</b><P>
In May of 1987 the mayor of Washington, D.C., visited an eighth-grade 
science class for gifted students at a public school in a poor 
neighborhood. The mayor posed a question. "How many of you know somebody 
who's been killed?" There were nineteen students in the class. Fourteen 
hands went up. The mayor went around the room: How were they killed? The 
answers began like this: "Shot." "Stabbing." "Shot." "Shot." "Drugs." 
"Shot." These were thirteen-year-old children. Given that they were in the 
gifted class, one can assume that they were from more privileged 
backgrounds than most of their schoolmates.<P>
Over a four-month period in Detroit at about the same time, 102 youngsters 
age sixteen or under were shot, nearly all of them by other children. 
There was so much violence in the public schools that the whole system had 
to be shut down for two days. In October of 1987 The Wall Street Journal 
ran a front-page story that chronicled three months in the life of a 
twelve-year-old Chicago boy named Lafeyette Walton. That life included 
almost daily gun and submachine-gun battles in his housing project, 
beatings and maimings of relatives and friends, rapes, gang recruiting, 
cocaine-running by a nine-year-old female cousin, and several murders.<P>
Our failure to curb such mayhem must be blamed on tolerance, not 
ignorance. Anecdotes like the ones above have been piling up for years. 
There is no shortage of quantitative evidence either. Researchers at the 
University of Maryland School of Medicine, in Baltimore, recently 
completed a study of 168 teenagers who visited an inner-city clinic for 
routine medical care. The teenagers were questioned about their exposure 
to various kinds of violence. A stunning 24 percent had witnessed a 
murder; 72 percent knew someone who had been shot. These teenagers had 
themselves been victims of some type of violence an average of one and a 
half times each and had witnessed an average of more than five serious 
criminal episodes. One out of five had had their lives threatened, and 
almost one out of eleven had been raped. The doctors who collected the 
information point out that because of the nature of the clinic population, 
some 80 percent of the respondents were female. Among a sample of 
adolescent males many of these measures of exposure to violence would be 
higher.<P>
"What I think is going on in the inner city is warfare--social warfare," 
one psychologist in Boston says. Lawrence Gary, the director of the 
Institute for Urban Affairs and Research at Howard University, says, "This 
kind of violence is a new phenomenon in America. We've always had murder 
and violence, but not like this. We don't know what the long-term impact 
is going to be."<P>
Young people are not only increasingly exposed to violence: they are also 
increasingly the perpetrators of violence. In the most troubling cases we 
are seeing a pattern of extreme remorselessness. The Central Park 
"wilding" attack is an infamous example; those accused of raping and 
nearly killing a young jogger in 1989 said afterward that "it was fun." In 
an earlier case, in Washington, D.C., a group of youths robbed, raped, and 
brutally murdered a middle-aged mother named Catherine Fuller while 
singing and joking. In another instance in Washington an eighteen-year old 
shot a cab driver in the head because he "wanted to try out a gun." In 
another, two teenagers killed a third who passed them on the street 
because they wanted his "boom box."<P>
"I had a kid who shot a guy twenty-seven times," one juvenile-court 
supervisor reports. "What kind of anger is that?" Even the murder victim's 
girlfriend, he says, showed no emotion when informed of the crime. In 
Brooklyn three teenagers methodically set fire to a homeless couple in 
1987. When rubbing alcohol wouldn't ignite the pair, the youths went to a 
local service station for gasoline, which worked. Hundreds of similarly 
disturbing cases exist. Investigators say that juveniles are often found 
laughing and playing at homicide scenes.<P>
From 1983 to l988 the number of minors arrested for murder increased by a 
startling 31 percent (to 1,765), even though the number of people age 
twelve to seventeen actually decreased by eight percent over those five 
years. The jump in murder arrests of children age fourteen or younger (up 
28 percent, to a total of 201 over that same period) is especially 
troubling. Victor Herbert, the executive director of New York City's 
Division of High Schools, says a new breed of young people "who are very 
reckless, very carefree, and, we believe, very dangerous" has arrived on 
the scene. "There's real fear among young people about each other," he 
reports.<P>
Homicide is now the leading cause of death among children in many American 
inner cities, and about half the assailants are other youths. 
Extrapolations from death-certificate and FBI statistics show that 
approximately 2,000 minors were murdered in 1988--twice the number killed 
in 1965, when there were 6.5 million more people under age eighteen in the 
country. Among blacks the destruction is particularly disturbing. More 
than 1,000 black children fell victim to homicide in 1988, a 50 percent 
increase over the toll in 1985. The murder and drug epidemics sweeping 
black communities are now so serious as to have actually reduced the 
average black life-span. From 1970 to 1984 steadily improving medical 
technology and diet, rising income, and other factors pushed black life 
expectancy up from 64.1 years to 69.7 years. The progress stopped right 
there. While white longevity has continued to rise, the average black 
life-span has decreased since 1984 by nearly four months--a development 
without parallel in the postwar period.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE ROOTS OF THE PROBLEM</b><P>
The most important source of violence by and among children is family 
breakdown. More than 60 percent of all children born today will spend at 
least some time in a single-parent household before reaching age eighteen. 
That kind of collapse of family structure is historically unprecedented in 
the United States and possibly in the world. For many black teenagers 
according to a report by one child-welfare organization, marriage is "now 
an almost forgotten institution."<P>
There is a great difference of opinion over the cause of this family 
decay. On one side is, let us say, the Charles Murray school, which argues 
that perverse government policies lie behind the collapse of family 
responsibility. In opposition is what we might call the Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan school, which argues that the causes are a mystery (but probably 
involve culture) and that government intervention offers the best hope for 
a solution. But despite the deep split over causes and solutions, there is 
broad agreement--at last--that family disintegration is at the root of 
many of the social and economic problems that worry us most.<P>
To say that family structure is now the principal conduit of class 
structure is not to deny that plenty of children in intact families have 
problems, or that many youngsters from single-parent homes will grow up to 
be happy and successful. There are children being raised in Beirut today 
who will turn out fine too; nonetheless, growing up in Beirut is not to be 
recommended. The point is, having only one parent's time, energy, and 
earning and teaching power is a serious blow from which a child recovers 
only with effort. Lack of male direction is an additional problem for many 
such children.<P>
That is not personal prejudice. A major study of children from one-parent 
families, conducted by the National Association of Elementary School 
Principals, has found that 30 percent of the two-parent elementary school 
students surveyed ranked as high achievers, compared with only 17 percent 
of the one-parent children. At the other end of the scale, 23 percent of 
the two-parent children were low achievers--versus 38 percent of the 
one-parent children. There were more clinic visits among one-parent 
students, and their rate of absence from school ran higher. One-parent 
students were consistently more likely to be late, truant, and subject to 
disciplinary action. One-parent children were found to be more than twice 
as likely to drop out of school altogether.<P>
The Bureau of Justice Statistics reported not long ago that 70 percent of 
the juveniles in state reform institutions grew up in single-parent or no
parent families. One recent study of seventy-two adolescent murderers 
found that three quarters came from single-parent homes. Most street gang 
members, it has been shown, come from broken homes.<P>
These findings should not surprise us. Fully twenty-five years ago Daniel 
Patrick Moynihan observed:<P>
"From the wild Irish slums of the 19th-century Eastern seaboard to the 
riot-torn suburbs of Los Angeles, there is one unmistakable lesson in 
American history: a community that allows a large number of young men (and 
women) to grow up in broken families, dominated by women, never acquiring 
any stable relationship to male authority...that community asks for and 
gets chaos."<P>
One of the depressing lessons we have learned in the past quarter century 
is how unamenable the problems of the broken family are to monetary 
solutions. It is not that we haven't tried to make compensation for the 
withering of the nuclear unit. Two thirds of all people in female-headed 
families with children under eighteen now get benefits from a welfare 
program (Aid to Families with Dependent Children, General Assistance, 
Supplemental Security Income, Medicaid, food stamps, rent assistance), the 
Census Bureau tells us. Of all never-married mothers, more than 80 percent 
are receiving some kind of government check. The federal government spends 
more than $100 billion every year on means-tested assistance to families. 
Yet this aid has not even come close to providing those households with 
the kind of existential security that most intact families enjoy.<P>
Given family integrity's essential importance, one might have expected 
society-wide efforts to support and encourage two-parent families when 
signs of rot were first detected, in the 1960s. That didn't happen. For 
the past quarter century American public policy has shied away from the 
idea that certain family forms are more desirable than others. There is no 
attempt to promote childbearing within wedlock. There is little penalty 
attached to child abandonment. There is scant recognition of the social 
benefits of marriage, or of the social contributions of those who devote 
themselves to conscientious child-rearing. There is no reward from our 
public programs for standing by kith and kin.<P>
The most tragic aspect of this lack of nerve among American elites in 
defending the integrity of the nuclear family is that it misled and left 
badly exposed precisely those groups that had the fewest other assets to 
fall back on. The rich can perhaps afford a splintered family; though it 
may bring heartache, it is usually not incapacitating. But the 
ill-educated, the poor, the historically discriminated against--strong 
families were in many cases the only thing such people had going for them. 
Once enticed out of the safe harbor of family solidarity, people in these 
groups often cannot recover.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>BOLSTERING FAMILIES</b><P>
There is no fully adequate substitute, public or private, for intact 
families. How, then, do we foster them? To begin with, there is a very 
substantive role for simple public rhetoric. Despite a quarter century of 
heartbreaking experience, the establishment message often continues to be 
that family structure is just a choice, and that a preference for one form 
over another is a kind of prejudice. A typical expression of the sentiment 
was made by the writer Toni Morrison in a Time magazine interview last 
year: "I don't think a female running a house is a problem, a broken 
family," she said. "The little nuclear family is a paradigm that just 
doesn't work. It doesn't work for white people or for black people. Why we 
are hanging onto it, I don't know." So long as thinking like this 
prevails, there will be no brake on our slide toward family forms that are 
economically, socially, and emotionally less tenable for children--and 
that perpetuate themselves over generations. To point out just one of many 
weaknesses invisible to Morrison, single-mother families have a poverty 
rate, after government transfers, of 38 percent; the comparable figure for 
husband-wife families is six percent. The nuclear family is not a perfect 
institution, but it is a necessary one. It is one of the very few 
institutions found in societies of every ethnic, political, and cultural 
stripe. While it would hardly be sufficient to solve the problem by 
itself, a broad public effort to document the human damage that results 
from widespread family meltdown, and to encourage marriage as the 
appropriate locus of childbearing, could eventually help curb family 
abandonment and neglect.<P>
In addition to rhetorical measures to reinforce two-parent families, we 
need to help mothers and fathers by giving them more choice, more 
independence, and more responsibility. Parents are likelier to shoulder 
obligations to their children if they believe that their interventions can 
make a difference. Poor parents in particular need new incentives and new 
tools. Rhode Island is now formulating a $10 million plan that, beginning 
next year, will allow the state to make its 10,000 third-graders and their 
parents an offer: children who pass their courses every year from now on, 
obey the law, avoid pregnancy, and do not use drugs will receive special 
academic help, plus one-on-one guidance from a trained volunteer "mentor," 
throughout their elementary and high school years. Any student who 
fulfills the compact and is accepted into college or a job-training 
program after graduation will have his education or training paid for. 
Measures like this, which try to forestall self-injuring behavior rather 
than just salving its effects with public funds, have a decent prospect of 
success. Trading substantial assistance for cooperative self-reform is 
also respectful of individual autonomy and free will, and thus is less 
likely to dispirit the low-income recipient. There is another advantage: 
payments conditioned on two-sided compacts have a much better chance of 
inspiring enthusiasm and generosity among taxpayers, who are 
understandably cynical about traditional welfare transfers.<P>
To avoid the corrosive effects of patron-client welfare custodialism, 
parents ought to be offered transportable resources--vouchers, say--and 
real choice in the selection of schools and housing. Yes, plenty of 
guardians would ignore a chance to transfer their child to a better 
school, and some would just discard a housing voucher. But an increased 
ability to act with effect would startle some parents into new interest in 
their child's welfare.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
The housing area offers a powerful justification for a rapid move toward a 
voucher strategy. A given house or apartment is not just a shelter; it is 
also an assignment to a physical neighborhood, a milieu, a social class. 
Homes are the locus of family life, and specific homes in specific places 
can exert powerful influences on the personalities and experiences of the 
occupants. Traditional public-housing complexes tend to be giant 
conglomerations of the troubled--isolated reservations where dysfunction 
is not the exception but the norm. Housing projects are petri dishes for 
family disintegration. All the role models, all the financial incentives-
the entire world view--are an encouragement to other-than-intact families. 
It would be much healthier for low-income families if households receiving 
housing assistance were dispersed broadly through a more normal 
cross-section of neighbors. The best way to promote dispersion is to 
assign people means rather than a place.<P>
Other attempts to break the physical segregation of dysfunctional families 
are also needed. The typical single mother on public assistance lives in 
stark withdrawal--closeted in an apartment to avoid the dangers beyond, 
doing no outside work, having no civic attachments or other means of 
integration into the larger world. Her universe is defined by a small 
circle of people living similarly. A check slips through her mail slot 
every two weeks. To break this isolation, welfare recipients ought to be 
required to satisfy certain requirements for activity during their period 
of dependency: completing high school or a high-school-equivalency program 
within a given number of years, getting a part-time job, taking classes in 
child-rearing or household management--whatever. Failure should mean loss 
of benefits. The emphasis must be on making measurable efforts toward 
self-improvement.<P>
More generally, helping America's lower classes reclaim a solid family 
structure will require sharp changes in the way we transfer income in this 
country. Significant welfare reform is a grail that has eluded legions of 
crusaders over several generations, but some progress has at least been 
made in agreeing on what we ought to be disgusted with. Most observers now 
believe that our welfare programs ought to be made strictly transitional, 
phasing out entirely after a limited period of recipiency, rather than 
serving as a long-term source of income (as they currently do for many). 
Support is growing for refundable tax credits for poor people with earned 
income--and for putting heavier reliance on the tax system to transfer 
money to people without earned income--instead of fishing checks to 
welfare recipients through multiple layers of social workers. There is a 
growing consensus that the presence of children, rather than the mere fact 
of low income, ought to be the trigger for assistance. And sentiment is 
growing in some quarters for discrimination in favor of intact families in 
public-housing, tax, and entitlement policy.<P>
Public policy ought to aim to weave parents and children together in webs 
of mutual responsibility and obligation. With respect to child support; 
the state should set itself up as a kind of bondsman--enforcer of private 
obligations first, gap-filler second--stepping into the breach only when 
payments cannot be collected from an absentee parent. Only 37 percent of 
mothers with absent spouses received payments from those spouses in l985; 
the average annual amount was just $2,220, down 25 percent in constant 
dollars from the level of seven years earlier. Tracking down irresponsible 
fathers will not always be cost-effective; many of them have no earnings. 
(A variety of evidence suggests that up to half of inner
city young men have not worked a single day in the past year.) 
Nonetheless, the effort of establishing a paternity decree is worthwhile, 
if only to force wider recognition of the parental obligations that are 
being defaulted on.<P>
<BR>
One fatal mistake to be avoided in government efforts to promote healthier 
families is undertaking measures that supersede or substitute for parental 
efforts. If you house the child, and feed him his hot meals, and provide 
all his intellectual and moral instruction at school, you run the risk of 
persuading marginally involved parents that they are superfluous.<P>
Interventions must operate through and with parents, not around them. 
Day-care programs, for instance, ought to require classroom participation 
by each parent on a rotating basis. Child counseling should include 
parents. Unless undertaken cautiously, well-intentioned public efforts to 
compensate for parental remoteness can have the inadvertent effect of 
apologizing for, and increasing, such remoteness.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>CONFRONTING BAD PARENTS</b><P>
Parents are responsible for their children. They need to be held 
responsible We already have limited laws holding parents to account for 
truancy and early school dropout by children. There is growing agreement 
that keeping control of one's children ought to be a condition for 
residence in public housing--twenty-nine states have won a federal waiver 
to evict families from projects if a child is found to be using or selling 
drugs. Florida has just passed legislation that punishes parents and other 
adults who let their guns fall into the hands of children. In Wisconsin 
and Hawaii parents can be forced to support offspring of their unmarried 
teenage children.<P>
Real sanctions should be meted out against uncooperative mothers and 
fathers when juveniles repeatedly violate youth curfews in those cities 
where they exist. Some cities are considering giving family courts new 
powers to force parents to participate in court-ordered counseling along 
with their delinquent juveniles. The California legislature passed an anti
youth-gang law in 1988 that allows parents to be arrested for failure to 
"exercise reasonable care, supervision, protection, and control over their 
minor child." Under its provisions derelict parents can be directed into 
various forms of treatment and counseling, with criminal penalties of up 
to a year in jail and a $2,500 fine if they refuse. (British authorities 
recently proposed the adoption of a similar statute.) Though growing in 
number, parent-accountability statutes are not yet enforced nearly as 
often, or as effectively as they should be. In Los Angeles, which has been 
making active use of the California statute, thirty to forty cases are 
being processed every month. These include instances where parents have 
openly tolerated guns and gang insignia in the home, where friends of the 
parents have tried to recruit their children into prostitution, where 
drug-addicted parents have simply stopped providing and caring for their 
children. Egregious negligence of this kind justifies public intrusion 
into certain parent-child relationships.<P>
In instances where parents prove unwilling or unable to provide their 
children with the care and oversight they need, our child-protection 
services must have the resources and will to act. Currently they don't: 
our standards of child protection have fallen to scandalously low levels 
in recent years. Many child-protection agencies are now doing little more 
than preventing murder and sometimes they fail even to do that. In the 
state of Washington, for instance--where conditions are better than they 
are in most other places--seventeen children who were on state case rolls 
for protection have died from abuse or neglect in the past three years. 
(Another twenty-eight not previously known to the authorities also died of 
neglect or abuse.) In Washington, D.C., where reporters last summer 
discovered that the backlog of child-endangerment cases yet to be 
investigated numbered 771, one social worker says, "'Prevention' is nor a 
word that exists in our agency anymore." He goes on: "when we define 
tragedy, it is not a child's failure to thrive. It is either they are 
maimed...or they are dead." Asked why he hadn't acted to remove a six
year-old boy from a known crack house run by the child's mother (the boy 
regularly begged his teachers, "Please don't make me go home. I don't want 
to go back there"), an investigator in Maryland explained that he had 
twenty similar cases on his desk, and that he didn't have time to go 
through the time-consuming process of taking a child from a parent unless 
there was "imminent danger." Such a minimal standard of child welfare 
verges on the barbaric.<P>
Making child-protection agencies more attentive will be particularly 
important if we intend to continue the standard practice of erring on the 
side of risk--that is, keeping children with previously abusive parents 
and hoping for the best. Family courts are generally unwilling to 
terminate parental rights these days unless there is a threat of immediate 
physical harm. The increased levels of violence and drug addiction that we 
are now seeing have, strangely done little<BR>
to change this pattern.<P>
Some jurisdictions have won so-called "findings of abuse" against drug
using parents in the juvenile and family courts. These findings have no 
criminal ramifications, but they allow the court to enter mandatory orders 
of protection in the child's behalf (for instance, forcing a parent to 
enter a treatment program) and to take custody of a child if a parent 
undertakes no constructive change "We don't want newborns going home with 
drug addicts," says Paul Logli, the state's attorney in Winnebago County, 
Illinois. To me, those places where babies are handed to mothers 
regardless are examples of a collapsing system. If prosecutors and social 
workers can't work out something better than that, then we ought to just 
close up shop."<P>
Unfortunately, most cities and counties are unwilling to intervene. 
Keeping children with problem parents is the pattern even in notably 
extreme instances. One example came to light in Philadelphia last year. In 
June a child named Michaela Robinson was born addicted to cocaine, after a 
pregnancy in which her mother had sought no prenatal care. The addicted 
infant underwent withdrawal and then boarded for a period at Temple 
University Hospital. Social workers, meanwhile, were having difficulty 
making contact with the mother, and when they did, she was "very 
unaccommodating." The woman had been under investigation by the city's 
Department of Human Services since 1988, because of tips that she was 
caring improperly for her other three children. Nonetheless, the mother 
was persuaded to take Michaela home.<P>
The mother was uncooperative in her dealings with social workers in the 
months that followed. When investigators were able to get into the 
residence, they noted that the baby was very small and unclean. "We saw 
evidence of neglect," one DHS worker said, but not what would have been 
considered enough to have the child removed. Finally, on December 73, 
paramedics found the emaciated body of the six-month-old dead in an infant 
seat. According to authorities, cocaine poisoning was the cause of death; 
crack smoke blown into the baby's face and mouth in an attempt to pacify 
her was possibly the source of the fatal intoxication. The medical 
examiner reports that ten other infants, ranging in age from twenty-eight 
days to ten months, have died in Philadelphia over the past three years 
after inhaling crack fumes.<P>
A strong case can be made that mothers giving birth to drug-addicted 
babies should lose them, unequivocally and permanently, unless they submit 
to immediate treatment. Yet in Washington and other cities legal 
strictures and anesthetized agencies often impede custody transfers, even 
for abandoned infants. Of course, many of these children, because of their 
damaged brains and unhealthy bodies, will eventually become a public 
responsibility anyway.<P>
Besides new standards for action and increased efficiency at child
protection agencies, we also need safe havens for youngsters who have been 
pulled out of danger. In particular, we need a big push to support and 
improve adoption in this country--a market with bulges at both the supply 
and demand ends but with a host of bureaucratic interferences in between, 
which prevent congenial matches.<P>
Referring to the drug-affected babies living in his institution, Haynes 
Rice, the director of the Howard University Hospital, says, "A lot of 
people really want to adopt these babies, but there have been 
social-services cut backs, and city authorities and the judicial system 
don't have a speedy process for handling the proceedings." Some small, 
specific changes--for instance, ending prohibitions where they exist on 
adoptions by foster parents, reducing strictures where they exist against 
cross-race adoptions, cutting enormous adoption fees, strengthening legal 
protections for adoptive parents, and restoring some confidentiality to 
the adoption process--could ease the placement of thousands of youngsters 
into supportive and loving homes.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>BRINGING SCHOOLS TO ORDER</b><P>
Schools are the primary public institution in the lives of children. If 
dangerous disorder is allowed to exist there, children will get a 
powerfully negative impression of society's interest in protecting them. 
Schools must be sanctuaries, where at a minimum physical safety is 
guaranteed. "If we can't ensure at least inside a school building or a 
schoolyard that there is still safety from the chaos of the streets," says 
Sandra Feldman, the president of New York City's teachers' union, "then I 
fear for the future of our whole society." Unfortunately, we are not now 
even close to providing such a guarantee. We seem to have decided that the 
level of violence in our schools today is something we can live with-
indeed, that it is virtually normal.<P>
There is nothing normal, however, about the present situation. Some 3 
million incidents of attempted or completed street crime (assault, rape, 
robbery, theft) take place inside schools or on school property annually. 
Nearly 300,000 high school students are physically attacked each month. 
One teacher in twenty is assaulted every year. Twelve percent of all 
teachers hesitate to confront misbehaving students for fear of reprisal. 
The results of the National Adolescent Student Health Survey, which 
queried l1,000 eighth- and tenth-grade students in twenty states in 1987, 
indicate that nearly two percent of all students (that would amount to 
338,000 students nationwide) carried a handgun to school at least once 
that year. A third of those students packed a pistol DAILY. About eight 
times as many students carry knives as guns.<P>
There is no way to justify bringing a weapon to school. Brandishing a 
firearm there challenges every civilized norm, and until the possibility 
of such conduct is eliminated, there can be no fine-tuning, or even 
functioning, in our classrooms. Hectoring against television violence, 
doling out food and health care, and pressing children to "respect 
themselves" and practice "self-esteem" are ludicrous--and hypocritical-
measures under conditions where responsible authorities do not even secure 
life and limb. The individual improvement and social training that are a 
school's mission cannot credibly take place in an atmosphere of terror.<P>
And terror is not too strong a word. Eight percent of urban junior and 
senior high school students miss at least one day of school a month 
because they are afraid to go. More than a third of these students report 
that someone threatened to hurt them in school, and 13 percent report 
actually having been attacked on the premises or on a school bus at least 
once during the past year. As one would expect, the meekest suffer most. 
Klaus Bornemann, a Bronx schoolteacher, says that in his violence-plagued 
junior high, "The kid who demonstrates fear is raw meat." It is not only 
the meek, however, who feel exposed. Nearly half of all students in New 
York City's public high schools stayed home from school on Halloween last 
year, out of fear that there would be trouble on what has in recent years 
often been a violent occasion.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Strong support for teachers and principals who exert discipline at the 
schoolhouse level will be needed to dissipate this climate of fear. And 
some educators will have to be prodded. Only one teacher out of the 63,000 
in New York City's public school system was fired in 1988, and only one 
principal (a convicted drug user) has been fired in the past eleven 
years--not exactly evidence of public revulsion against the anarchy in New 
York classrooms. Beating down gangsterism takes strict policies and 
determined personnel. It will require making suspensions and expulsions 
stick, and establishing more alternative schools for chronic miscreants. 
In some places metal detectors, more guards, ID cards, occasional locker 
searches, and similar steps will be necessary. Squeamishness about such 
measures often reflects the public-relations worries of administrators 
more than anything else. Whether we choose to admit it or not, violence 
has entered our schools. To pretend otherwise is unconscionable.<P>
Fortunately, even in the meanest schools it is usually a limited number of 
youths who cause most of the turmoil. Klaus Bornemann estimates that most 
of the danger in his school originates with just 10 percent of the 
students. Toughness with this group can make a difference. In 1988 New 
York City finally began a weapons-detection program in five high schools, 
and nine more high schools and one middle school were added this school 
year. A security team with metal detectors visits three of the fifteen 
schools on a random basis every day. Principals and students report that 
even this modest step (there are 119 high schools in the New York system) 
has improved school safety. A federal "schoolyard drug law" is now on the 
books, stipulating heavier penalties when a drug-trafficking offense takes 
place within 1,000 feet of any campus, but overworked federal prosecutors 
rarely invoke it. Taking matters into their own hands, some states have 
recently begun to levy heavier sentences for certain offenses when they 
take place on school grounds.<P>
An example that should NOT be followed was set last year by California's 
First District Court of Appeals. In 1982 California voters added a 
"Victim's Bill of Rights" to the state constitution. Part of it reads: 
"All students and staff of public primary, elementary, junior high and 
senior high schools have the inalienable right to attend campuses which 
are safe, secure, and peaceful." In a 1986 lawsuit Constance Hosemann and 
her son Stephen, a student in Oakland who had been repeatedly bullied, 
beaten, and robbed at school, charged that their school district had 
failed to protect Stephen's right to a safe classroom. The Alameda County 
Superior Court judge in the case ruled in the Hosemanns' favor, holding 
that they could seek monetary damages, and ordering the school district to 
develop a safe-schools plan. In May of last year a three judge panel in 
the First District Court of Appeals overturned that decision, arguing that 
while the California constitution does provide students with a "general 
right" to security, it "imposes no express duty on anyone to make schools 
safe"--a perfect rationalization of the inertness that has so damaged the 
serenity of American childhood in the past twenty-five years.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>GIVING CRIMINALS NO QUARTER</b><P>
Not just around schools but across society we need to crack down on 
personal crime. There are those who will say we are now in the midst of 
just such a cleanup. They are wrong. Figures produced by the Bureau of 
Justice Statistics show that only 18 percent of people arrested for 
violent felonies are convicted and sentenced to at least a year in prison. 
For those arrested for drug felonies, the figure is 10 percent. Among 
people arrested for homicide, only 49 percent are sentenced to a year or 
more behind bars. For rapists, the figure is just 29 percent. A typical 
inmate getting out of lockup these days has spent seventeen months there. 
That is 45 percent of the average original court-ordered sentence. In 
other words, there is relatively little chance that criminals will go to 
jail even if arrested, and when they do go, they usually spend less than a 
year and a half in confinement. That's our war on crime?<P>
It is no wonder, then, that four out of five state-prison inmates today 
are repeat offenders. Almost half of them are serving at least their 
fourth sentence. These people are making crime a career, in which 
occasional short prison terms are just a cost of doing business. Along the 
way, many of them are recruiting the young as criminal accomplices.<P>
There is little motive today for criminals to avoid further illegal 
activity. This is particularly true for juveniles, who can expect 
especially light treatment. Judge Reggie Walton, a black jurist who saw 
thousands of juvenile offenders while sitting on the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia for eight years (before becoming the nation's 
assistant "drug czar"), says, "Many of the young people [who get] involved 
in the illegal drug trade do so because the risk of prosecution does not 
act as a deterrent. Knowing that a conviction in juvenile court will in 
all probability result in little or no punishment, the benefits...outweigh 
the risks....We must not permit this situation to continue." Walton points 
out that if the young men who attacked the Central Park jogger last year 
had committed their assault in the District of Columbia, they would have 
been jailed for at most two years before being released back into the 
community, if their behavior was good.<P>
In California, our "leading indicator" state, rates of arrest for 
burglary, theft, car theft, arson, and robbery are now higher among 
juveniles than among adults. Using the underaged to sell drugs and carry 
out shootings is a common gang practice nationwide, and thwarting it will 
require expanding the list of crimes for which a juvenile is automatically 
certified to stand trial as an adult. Increased juvenile accountability in 
general would be a good idea. Little things like revoking the driver's 
licenses of youngsters convicted of certain crimes--as some states now 
do--would communicate an appropriate message, linking civic privileges to 
minimum standards of behavior. The aim of tough juvenile programs is not 
so much to punish as to startle, to communicate resolute concern. In an 
earlier era, when the sentiment that there are "no bad boys, only bad 
societies" prevailed, the usefulness of firm responses to individual 
antisocial acts was often ignored. Today we are beginning to remember. The 
truth is, children and adolescents hunger for clear limits, caring 
authority even the occasional boundary-delineating confrontation.<P>
The way we have been using the criminal-justice system to protect 
children's interests is perverse at both ends of the age spectrum. The 
very young, as we have seen, suffer from grossly insufficient protection. 
Meanwhile, the older young--teenagers who in many societies would be 
accorded full adult responsibilities--are overprotected and excused from 
accountability for even the foulest offenses. A lack of nerve and an 
indulgent passivity characterize both responses.<P>
The only way to reverse the flow toward criminal experimentation by the 
young is to reverse the incentives facing criminals generally. That means 
building more prisons and boot camps and work farms and militant schools 
and electronic house-arrest monitoring systems and whatever else works, 
and then making sentences stick. Genuine compassion demands that we forgo 
the comfortable, and ever so much easier responses of softness.<P>
Creative thinking in the area of corrections is desperately needed, 
particularly for juveniles. In 1984 Oklahoma instituted a program called 
RID (for "regimented inmate discipline"), which it uses to segregate and 
try to reclaim young offenders. RID inmates face a structured environment, 
including physical conditioning, rigid dress codes, and limits on personal 
property. (If you imagine that those are things all prison inmates face, 
you are mistaken.) They receive military-style haircuts every two weeks. 
Rooms must be neat. For many RID inmates this is a first encounter with 
discipline. Intense classroom training and homework are required, and 
inmates are tested. Stays are short--about three or four months--and when 
probationary releases occur, intensive supervision is provided for a 
minimum of three months afterward. This seems to help.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Without denying that carrots are generally far more important than sticks 
in keeping a society on track, it nonetheless seems clear that government 
priorities have recently been unduly skewed away from directly defensive 
responses to personal violence. Governments currently spend seventeen 
times as much on income transfers, education, and social aid as they do on 
law and order. This is not to say we ought to do without social programs 
or measures to promote employment. The point, rather, is simply this: the 
way to fight crime is to fight crime. Public policies that operate on the 
premise that brutality is merely an effect of limited economic means are 
both inaccurate (right through the recent murder wave in Washington, D.C., 
the unemployment rate for people age sixteen and over was less than three 
percent in the metropolitan area, and between four and five percent within 
the District itself) and unfair to the large majority of low-income 
Americans who conduct themselves peaceably.<P>
Besides, there is a hierarchy of social dysfunction, and first things must 
be secured first. A child who comes of age under a haze of fear will never 
know the early assurance that is the only reliable basis for adult 
competence. Later he will discover that schools dominated by outlaws are 
no place to acquire job skills. If he is afraid to wait at a bus stop in 
the evening, he will be no candidate for steady employment. And economic 
opportunity will never come to him in his neighborhood so long as shops 
are vandalized and potential customers must fear for their safety. 
Peacekeeping and aid-sprinkling are complementary, not mutually exclusive, 
undertakings. Yet while we've tried a lot of the latter over the past 
quarter century, we've neglected the former.<P>
A final point: The origins and effects of childhood disturbance are 
obviously of interest to public-policy makers. If we can identify children 
at risk of being caught up in the turmoil swirling around them, then 
possibly some of the turmoil can be avoided. But once a particular 
juvenile has committed a serious crime, the "whys" and "how comes" can no 
longer be a central issue. At that point justice must be pursued--for the 
sake of the aggrieved, and to maintain the essential proposition that 
crime brings on punishment. If you injure another human being, your 
liberties will be suspended: that is a message that can be comprehended by 
adult and juvenile citizens alike, and behind which a society can justly 
stand. Too often today we become paralyzed trying to decide whether the 
juvenile criminal is a victim or a victimizer. That leads to very 
dangerous territory.<P>
If we are to have any chance of preventing young criminals from infecting 
a class of successors, and from stalking an innocent public then we must 
see with clear eyes what they have become: sad cases, but non 
unambiguously part of the problem. Unless this new crop of teenage 
marauders is incapacitated, the vicious cycle of youths preyed upon and 
then preying on others may become unbreakable in our cities. And blameless 
children, never having known the protections and sanctuaries that are 
civilization's original justification, will be hurt most. 
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1990, Karl Zinsmeister.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"Growing Up Scared";
The Atlantic Monthly, June, 1990, issue.
Volume 265, number 6 (pages 49-66).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-24</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B031-35</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/fallowf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191222 text/html 46738
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:12:19 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:14 GMT
Content-length: 46532
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>Entitlements</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

	<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>



</center>





<p>



<font size=4>November 1982</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





Entitlements</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by James Fallows</font></center>

<p>



<blockquote><i><font size=4>If all Americans are "entitled"

to help, who will pay for it?</i></font><p>



<p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>E</font><font size=3>arly last spring, Hastings Keith tried to return some money to the federal

government. For fourteen years Keith was a Republican congressman from the

Massachusetts district that includes Cape Cod. After leaving the Congress in

1972, he worked for a few months in the Nixon Administration and then went into

business. Together with the five years and ten months he had spent in the

military before, during, and after World War II, Keith had put in twenty years

on the federal payroll; and so, in 1973, at the age of fifty-eight, he was

eligible for the early retirement benefits the government provides.<p>



<p>



<p>



His combined congressional/civil-service pension provided him initially with

$1,560 a month, or $18,720 a year. He also received retirement pay, $55l a

month, for service on active military duty and in the reserves, which he began

getting in 1975. And in 1980, when he turned sixty-five, Keith drew a third

government benefit, his monthly Social Security check.<p>



<p>



<p>



Like other federal benefits, Keith's were fully "indexed" against inflation,

which meant that they were increased once, and in some cases twice, a year, in

step with changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Because of these

increases, Keith, whose highest salary as a congressman had been $42,500, found

himself by 1982 taking in nearly $61,000 a year in federal pensions. His

congressional pension had more than doubled since 1973, to $3,419 a month. His

military pension had risen to $903 a month, and his Social Security payment was

$691 a month. Another round of cost-of-living adjustments made this summer

raised Keith's federal pensions yet again, to a total of more than $65,000.<p>



<p>



<p>



And that was not the end of federal benefits for the Keith household. Keith's

wife had retired from the federal government during a "reduction in force " or

RIF, when she was forty-six years old. Since she had put in twenty-five years

of federal service, she was, as a victim of a RIF, entitled to a pension, which

started at $550 a month in 1976. By this year, it had nearly doubled, to some

$1,000 a month. All told, then, the Keith family's federal pensions came to

more than $77,000 as of last summer--and all of it was fully indexed to future

increases in inflation.<p>



<p>



<p>



To Hastings Keith, this seemed excessive. He wrote a letter to the secretary of

the Treasury, Donald Regan, explaining why he wanted to turn over three checks,

totalling $3,107, each representing a portion of his monthly allotments that he

considered unwarranted.<p>



<p>



<p>



Keith's hope had been to present his checks in a public ceremony, where he

would register his complaint about the system that depleted the Treasury to

finance windfalls such as his. The government shared little of his enthusiasm

for the plan. Instead, he was granted an audience with an assistant secretary

of the Treasury, who listened politely to his case, but did nothing.<p>



<p>



<p>



His rebuff at the Treasury did not stop Hastings Keith, who has been telling

his story to congressional committees and devoting his extra money to the

effort to change the federal retirement system. But the government's lack of

interest in his cause helps explain some of the current agonies over the

federal budget and federal deficits.<p>



<p>



<p>



Although the generosity of congressional pensions makes the sums in this

example extreme, they illustrate a basic fact of modern government. Benefits

that are indiscriminately awarded, and then ceaselessly increased, add more to

the federal budget than do those more familiar evils "cost overrun" and

"welfare fraud." Yet politicians of every camp have found it perilous to

tackle, or even to acknowledge, this problem.<p>



<p>



<p>



Since early this year, both friends and foes of the Reagan Administration have

understood that the next four years might well produce the largest sustained

budget deficits in American history. When the administration released its

budget proposals for fiscal year 1983 last spring, it did what no other

administration had ever done: for the years ahead it predicted a smooth, robust

return to national prosperity yet it still foresaw budget deficits that would

hover in the vicinity of $100 billion a year.<p>



<p>



<p>



Last year's reductions in tax rates are part of the reason for the deficits, as

are the administration's plans for a sustained military buildup. But while

these two policies have been debated to death, neither the administration nor

its critics have yet wrestled with the largest single force behind the

deficits. Neither liberals nor conservatives have yet devised a confident

approach to that portion of federal spending known as "entitlements."<p>



<p>



<p>



Entitlements, sometimes called "payments to individuals," are technically

defined as benefits for which people qualify automatically, by virtue of their

age or income or occupation. Social Security is such an entitlement, by far the

largest. So are medical programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, civil-service

and military pensions, unemployment insurance and price-support payments for

farmers, and (with certain technical quibbles over definitions) subsidized

housing and food stamps.<p>



<p>



<p>



From a budgetary point of view, the significance of such programs is that, at

least in the short run their costs cannot be controlled. If the Congress

appropriates $2 billion to build a dam or a highway, it can be confident that

no more than $2 billion may legally be spent. But when it authorizes extended

unemployment benefits, or a different reimbursement formula under Medicare, it

can set no limit on the money that will ultimately flow from the Treasury,

since the government is legally obligated to provide benefits to anyone who can

prove that he is eligible.<p>



<p>



<p>



The Reagan Administration took office committed to a fundamental redefinition

of federal responsibilities, but it will almost certainly depart having made no

dent in entitlements. From less than one third of federal spending in 1970,

entitlements rose to represent nearly half (of a much larger total) in 1980.

Even if the Reagan Administration should continue to be granted its every wish

for more military spending, and even if Congress were to concur in all its

proposed cuts in the rest of the budget, entitlements would still make up

nearly half of the budget in 1983 and 1984.<p>



<p>



<p>



The two national parties have virtually raced each other to distance themselves

from this dangerous issue. Old-style liberals to "neo-liberals," the Democrats

have attacked almost every other part of the administration's economic plan,

without volunteering their ideas about this half of the budget. In its

top-to-bottom re-examination of government spending, the administration

exempted from Budget Director David Stockman's scrutiny not only the military

but also the largest and fastest-growing entitlements.<p>



<p>



<p>



The "entitlement problem" is often thought of as a "welfare problem." To a

trivial extent, it is: most federal programs for the needy, including the

classic welfare program, AFDC (Aid to Families with Dependent Children), do

fall within the entitlement budget. But they make up a small part of the whole.

Only a sixth of all the money spent on entitlements is for programs that are

"means-tested," or aimed at the poor, and those programs are the

slowest-growing part of the entitlements budget. For example, AFDC at $7

billion, costs one third as much as civil-service pensions, and it shrinks

while the pensions grow. Rather than a "welfare problem," the growth of the

entitlements is actually a "retirement problem."<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



October 1 marks the beginning of the government's fiscal year, and in fiscal

year 1983, just begun, the federal government will, according to the latest

congressional budget resolutions, spend some $770 billion for all its varied

activities. Of that total, $362 billion will go toward entitlements; of the

$362 billion, $264 billion will be for retirement programs. In other words, one

out of every three dollars the federal government spends this year will be

spent on pensions or on medical care for those over the age of sixty-five.<p>



<p>



<p>



Social Security, of course, heads the list of retirement programs; it will cost

about $170 billion in 1983. Medicare, the medical-care program for people over

the age of sixty-five, is second largest, at $49 billion. Together, these two

programs account for more than half of the entitlement budget and more than a

quarter of all federal spending. Two other major retirement items are

civil-service pensions, $21.2 billion in 1983, and military retirement pay,

$16.2 billion. By way of comparison, the largest means-tested program, Medicaid

(Medicare's counterpart for the needy) is expected to cost $18.5 billion in

1983, and food stamps will be about $12 billion.<p>



<p>



<p>



Retirement programs not only dominate the federal budget, they also represent

its largest area of growth. The basic reason for this growth is demographic:

over the past generation, more people have been surviving to retirement age,

and the birthrate has declined. In 1950, roughly one American out of every

forty-three drew benefits from the main Social Security account, known as Old

Age and Survivors Insurance. Now about one in seven receives payments

(including those who draw from the newer Disability Insurance account). In

1950, every 100 working Americans had to provide, through their Social Security

taxes, the support for six retired people. Now each worker's obligation is five

times as great (thirty-one retirees per 100 workers). That ratio should remain

steady for the next twenty-five years, while the children of the postwar baby

boom remain in the workforce. But early in the next century, the ratio should

shift again. Fifty years from now, each person in the office or on the assembly

line may be responsible not only for his own livelihood but also for half the

support of a retired countryman.<p>



<p>



<p>



The average single man who retired in 1960 received six and a half times as

much money in benefits as he ever paid in. (These comparisons are adjusted for

inflation, and for the interest that the taxpayer could have been earning on

his contributions.) The man who retired in 1970 got back more than three times

as much as he contributed, and the man who retired in 1980 should eventually

receive two and a quarter times as much money as he paid in. But by the time

one of today's teenagers retires, in the year 2030, he will have paid more into

the system than he will ever get back.<p>



<p>



<p>



Moreover, while life-spans were increasing, the retirement age was being

lowered. The average man who turned twenty in 1940 could expect to live six

months past his sixty-eighth birthday. Since the retirement age was then

sixty-five, he could expect to spend three and a half years receiving the

retirement benefits toward which he had contributed during his forty-five years

of work. In 1956, the Social Security retirement age for women was lowered to

sixty-two; it was lowered for men in 1961. (Retiring at sixty-two instead of

sixty-five means a maximum reduction of 20 percent in Social Security benefits,

but most of those eligible choose to take their benefits as soon as possible.<p>



<p>



<p>



The average man who turned twenty in 1977, could expect to live to the age of

seventy-five, or thirteen years past his retirement age. Consider how this

young man's expectations would differ from his older counterparts. The thirteen

years he would spend in retirement would be nearly one third as long as his

forty-two-year working career. Forty years ago, the average retirement was only

one twelfth as long as the average working career.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



Demographic trends, powerful as they are, do not fully explain the growth of

the retirement programs; political maneuvering deserves much of the credit. The

explosion in retirement benefits derives in large part from a reform gone

awry.<p>



<p>



<p>



The reform in question was an attempt to take the "politics" out of federal

benefits. In 1962, Congress undertook a reform of civil-service pensions. Until

that time, Congress had to approve each pension increase, in rituals very much

like its regular votes to raise the ceiling on the national debt.

Good-government spokesmen argued that this sapped the Congress's energies and

debased its deliberations, by enticing congressmen to play politics with

pension adjustments. It would be far better, they said, to delegate adjustments

to the automatic workings of a formula.<p>



<p>



<p>



The reformers also recommended an improvement over the military's system of

raising pensions whenever active-duty pay went up. In those days when federal

salaries were considered to be "low," it was argued that the government might

need to increase its pay selectively to attract the right talent; there was no

logical reason to pass this on as a windfall to retirees. Pensions should rise

only in accordance with the cost of living.<p>



<p>



<p>



Starting in 1962, therefore, pensions for civil servants were to be adjusted

once a year, in proportion to the rise in the CPI. Indeed, starting in 1969,

the adjustment was one percent more than the CPI increase. This one percent

"kicker" was supposed to make up for the lag between the rise in prices and the

annual adjustment in the checks.<p>



<p>



<p>



The other major step came in 1972, when Congress voted to index Social Security

benefits to the CPI (but with no "kicker"). Until then, Social Security benefit

levels had also been adjusted by the Congress. Switching to the index plan was,

once again, supposed to shield the system from political demagoguery. The logic

seemed so compelling that by the end of the 1970s, 30 percent of all federal

spending was directly indexed to the CPI, and another 14 percent was indexed to

other measures.<p>



<p>



The architects of indexing failed to foresee what would happen next, and

understandably so: through most of the fifties and sixties, inflation had

averaged less than 2 percent a year. But at just the moment when so large a

share of federal spending was being tied to the CPI, the historic American

inflation of the 1970s began. As prices increased by 8, 10, 12 percent each

year, exactly in pace rose federal payments.<p>



<p>



<p>



No, not exactly in pace. In fact, the payments rose faster, because of

peculiarities in the design of the indexing formulas. The kicker for federal

pensions, for one thing, put federal retirees far ahead of the game, until it

was removed in 1976. Civil-service retirement pay cost $2.8 billion in 1970;

after ten years of sustained inflation, it reached $14.7 billion in 1980, an

increase of 525 percent. Perversely, indexing meant that it could be more

profitable to retire than to work. Eric Heimel wrote in the Journal of

Contemporary Studies that a four star general who retired in 1971 would have

seen his retirement pay increase, through indexing, to $64,000 in 1981, while a

four-star general still on active duty in 1981 would be earning $54,000.<p>



<p>



<p>



In principle, indexed increases did nothing more radical than enable federal

pensioners to keep even with inflation. But in practice, their effect was quite

different. During the inflation of the 1970s, few prices rose faster than those

of energy and housing; but the increases in those prices, dramatic enough in

reality, were exaggerated by the formulas used to calculate the Consumer Price

Index. The costs of home ownership, which made up one quarter of the "market

basket" of goods whose prices determined the CPI, were calculated in a way that

made the index extremely sensitive to changes in the mortgage rate. For

example, if the mortgage rate were to rise by one point in a month, from 10

percent to 11, that change would, all by itself, raise the CPI for that month

by almost one full point, which could be "annualized" into an inflation rate of

12 percent. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that this and other

quirks in the CPI's treatment of housing costs exaggerated the real rise in

consumer prices by as much as 6.1 points between 1978 and 1980, with each of

those points triggering an extra $2 billion in federal spending each year. As

for the cost of energy, the CPI market basket assumed that families would keep

buying the same amounts of gas and oil and electricity, no matter how much

prices might rise or fall. The real market basket of American consumers has of

course changed markedly from that of 1972. The era of cheap fuel ended, and

consumers cut back, but the CPI ignores such adjustments totally.<p>



<p>



<p>



Beyond these technical defects in the index was a larger question of fairness,

for "full indexation" led to very different fates for different segments of the

American public. It created a class that had nothing to fear from the inflation

that was the scourge of the rest of the populace. Those who retired from

private companies were, if anything, more vulnerable to inflation than their

working counterparts, since more than 90 percent of private pension plans offer

no cost-of-living protection. (Hastings Keith's pension from the private firm

where he spent twenty years started out at $160 a month and dropped to $100

when he began receiving Social Security) But because of the technical oddities

of the CPI, those who received federal pensions and Social Security could come

out ahead when prices rose. For one class of beneficiaries, indexation all but

shattered the connection between the nation's productivity and their economic

welfare.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



There is one further engine of growth at work within the retirement accounts:

medical insurance. In financial terms, the medical programs are potentially the

most explosive of all; they also present the most intractable of the

entitlement dilemmas.<p>



<p>



<p>



Through the past decade, no major program run by the federal government has

grown more quickly than medical care for the aged. Between 1970 and 1980,

federal payments for medical entitlements, of which Medicare makes up three

quarters (Medicaid accounts for nearly all of the rest), rose by 133 percent in

real dollars (i.e., adjusted to remove the effects of inflation). Medicare now

costs less than one third as much as Social Security, but it is increasing at a

much faster rate. According to projections based on the 1981 Social Security

Trustees' report, Medicare could, by the year 2006, surpass Social Security to

become the largest single item in the federal budget.<p>



<p>



<p>



That Medicare should be outstripping Social Security suggests that it is

subject to pressures other than demographics, since the clientele of the two

programs is almost the same. The pressures driving Medicare costs ever higher

are built into the medical system.<p>



<p>



<p>



American doctors, researchers, and hospitals have proven far more brilliant in

combating the ravages of age than in figuring out how to do so at a

controllable cost. This imbalance presents choices that are inescapably cruel:

who shall be denied kidney dialysis if the cost of serving everyone is too

high? Who shall pay the cost if no one is to be denied? These are precisely the

sorts of choices that democratic governments find most awkward to make, and

medical-entitlement plans reflect that uneasiness. Under Medicare and Medicaid,

the choices finally do get made, but only in a backhanded fashion that does not

pretend to be rational and does not succeed in being economical.<p>



<p>



<p>



The choices fall to the doctors: if your physician authorizes a trip to the

hospital and elaborate tests, Medicare will pick up the costs of the next sixty

days (after you pay the first $260). In principle, the brake on expenditures is

the cumulative effect of half-a-million doctors' prudent decisions. In

practice, the limit is often set by local availability of hospital beds, of

specialists, and of machines.<p>



<p>



<p>



After years of bitter struggle, Congress enacted the Medicare program in 1966.

Organized medicine, led by the American Medical Association, represented the

principal opposition; as part of the political bargaining that ensured

congressional passage, Medicare took on features that guaranteed that doctors

and hospitals would not suffer financially under the plan. Doctors would be

reimbursed according to a schedule of permissible fees--but the schedule would

be based on rates set by the doctors themselves. Moreover, the doctors were

free to bill their patients for supplements on top of the charge to Medicare.

Hospitals, unlike doctors, agreed to accept Medicare's reimbursement as payment

in full for a patient's bill. But that reimbursement would be based on the

hospital's rendering of "reasonable costs" of care. Hospitalization insurance

was automatic under Medicare. To get the extra coverage for doctors' bills,

each person had to pay a premium, now $12.20 a month. Nearly everyone chooses

the additional coverage, and so is effectively shielded from rising medical

costs--which was, of course, one of the fundamental purposes of the plan.<p>



<p>



<p>



The result of these arrangements was another of the "cost-plus" schemes so

common in government contracting. No party to the transaction had both the

incentive and the ability to economize on care. A hospital-building boom left

new beds waiting to be filled. Filled they soon were, and the charges were

passed on to Medicare or to private insurers. These "third-party reimbursers"

watched their payments shoot through the roof--hospital charges have typically

risen by 15 to 20 percent each year.<p>



<p>



<p>



This general quandary for American medicine has created a particular challenge

for Medicare, because expensive new medical techniques are most often used to

treat older patients. Nearly a quarter of all Medicare payments are made in the

last year of a recipient's life. While Medicare has been a resounding success

in enabling retired Americans to meet their routine medical needs without

financial terror, its budget is tremendously skewed by the costly last efforts

to fend off death.<p>



<p>



<p>



Political arguments about medical care have simmered down in the past

half-dozen years, because of the near-universal assumption that the time has

not been right to create another expensive new entitlement, in the form of a

national health system. Yet the very difficulty of balancing our public

accounts may soon refocus political attention on the basic questions of who

gets what kind of medical care, and how we can pay for it.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



As it drew up its proposals for the 1983 budget, the administration decided not

to recommend any reductions in Social Security, and only minor adjustments in

Medicare and federal pension plans. In so doing, it started out by declaring

one third of the budget off-limits for spending cuts. Another quarter of the

budget belonged to the military, and its share was supposed to increase to one

third over the next few years. A further 15 percent of the 1983 budget was

committed to repaying interest on the national debt.<p>



<p>



<p>



Together, these three areas account for nearly three fourths of all federal

spending without even counting the other entitlements. If they could not be

cut, an administration pledged to frugality and embarrassed by mammoth deficits

had little choice but to slash everything else. The administration proposed

"zeroing out" most job-training programs cutting research-and-development

funds, and taking other difficult steps. There was one final possibility for

savings: the "other" entitlements, those aimed at the poor. This possibility

the administration seized.<p>



<p>



<p>



Between Jimmy Carter's budget for fiscal year 1981 and Ronald Reagan's

proposals for 1983, the major pension programs increased by 20 percent and

Medicare increased by 30 percent. But in that same period. AFDC was cut by 20

percent, the low-income energy-assistance program by 30 percent and a variety

of nutrition programs, including food stamps, by 15 percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



The unequal sharing of the sacrifice became one of the administration's central

political problems: it led even conservative pillars such as Senator Robert

Dole to complain about shoving the burden onto the poor. Even so, the cuts were

not enough to solve the budget problems. No matter how deeply it might probe

elsewhere, an administration that chose not to confront the biggest

entitlements (to say nothing of the military) was left with the prospect of

deficits so stupendous that they could double the national debt within five

years.<p>



<p>



<p>



In the middle sixties, it took the simultaneous pursuit of a war on poverty and

a war in Vietnam to throw the federal budget into chronic deficit. Now it might

require nothing more ambitious than meeting our routine obligations.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



Can the entitlements explosion be contained? The ultimate answer demands a

reconsideration of basic political premises that we have found comforting since

the New Deal. Yet certain technical changes, primarily involving pensions for

public employees, provide a place to start.<p>



<p>



<p>



The single most important technical change is to begin dismantling preferential

federal pensions and bring new federal employees into the Social Security

system.<p>



<p>



<p>



Federal employees now enjoy the nation's most generous pension plan. Most

private pensions aim at replacing 20 to 25 percent of a worker's previous

earnings. Social Security, reduced living expenses, and, yes, savings are

supposed to make up the rest. A federal employee with thirty years service will

typically receive 56 percent of the average salary for his last three years on

the job, congressmen 80 percent. All of it is fully indexed, of course

(although the Congress did, this summer, limit, indexing for retirees under the

age of sixty-two, on the theory that most of them were holding other jobs).

Federal retirees receive more in pensions than retirees from all private

businesses combined.<p>



<p>



<p>



The pension plans of private businesses usually require the worker and his firm

to invest, in varying proportions, the resources that will pay dividends during

retirement. Federal pension plans don't come close to doing so. The largest

contributions come neither from the workers nor from the agencies that employ

them but from general federal funds. Patrick Owens reported in Newsday that in

1980, federal workers and their agencies contributed a total of $3.6 billion

toward their retirement funds. The Treasury contributed an extra $11.9 billion.

The unfunded liabilities of the federal retirement systems--the commitments

made to workers but backed by no investment or trust fund--now amount to some

$1 trillion, roughly as much as the entire national debt. According to Hastings

Keith, unfunded liabilities average $149,000 <i>per person</i> in the military,

$173,000 in the civil service, and $530,000 in the foreign service.<p>



<p>



<p>



The generosity of federal pensions is a legacy of the 1920s, when federal pay

was poor. For the past twenty years, the federal government has embraced the

principle of "comparability," offering salaries comparable to those in

business. Why should the principle not extend to pensions as well?<p>



<p>



<p>



"Integrating" federal employees into Social Security would ultimately mean more

generous benefits for low-paid federal employees, especially those who do not

work for the government long enough to earn pension rights, since they would be

able to count their years in government service toward their Social Security

benefits. At the other end of the scale, it would mean an end to the windfalls

now available to "double-dippers": government employees who, having qualified

for pensions while still in their late forties or fifties, take private jobs

and become eligible for Social Security as well. Robert Myers, a former chief

actuary for Social Security who now directs a presidential commission on Social

Security, which will recommend reforms for the system this winter, contends

that <i>three quarters</i> of all retired government workers are either receiving a

second pension or are working in a job that will qualify them to do so.<p>



<p>



<p>



A few groups of federal employees have already set an example that might be

widely emulated. The retirement plan for the Tennessee Valley Authority has

since the 1950s been integrated with Social Security. Like most private pension

plans, it does not count military service toward its pensions; it applies its

disability standards more strictly than does the civil-service retirement

system; and it discourages early retirement. Except for the provisions for

early retirement, it offers benefits comparable to those of other civil

servants; yet, unlike most other systems, it is actuarially sound. The Federal

Reserve pension plan and a few others operate on similar principles.<p>



<p>



<p>



The logic of comparability also suggests a change in military pensions. Career

soldiers can now retire on half pay after twenty years of service, or

three-quarters pay if they serve for thirty years. (Members of the military are

also eligible for Social Security.)<p>



<p>



The demands of military duty obviously differ from those of any other work. But

the twenty-year career costs a great deal while adding very little to our

national defense. Gradually converting the military to a thirty-year career

might mean increasing active-duty pay, especially for the sergeants and petty

officers who are now the services' scarcest resource. In the long run, this

would probably cost less than adding to the mountain of unfunded pension

liabilities; and by reducing many officers' sense that their military duty can

be only a "first career," it might well enhance the services' integrity.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet all such reforms take us only so far. No matter how we might crack down on

the retired colonels and GS-15s, it will not make much more difference in the

entitlements budget than cracking down on welfare mothers would. Our national

accounts will remain out of balance until we wrestle with the IOUs that

middle-class America has issued to itself, through Social Security and

Medicare. The two awesome challenges of the entitlements are to control medical

costs and to re-examine our notion of who "needs" public help.<p>



<p>



<p>



The budgets for Medicare and Medicaid, in their leaps to the sky, reflect the

same pressures that are driving Blue Cross premiums and personal medical bills

up and up. Tinkering with the government programs is the minor solution to this

problem: the major one is changing incentives in the medical system. In forcing

this issue to the Center of political attention, the entitlements mess may

indirectly do some good.<p>



<p>



<p>



One political camp, exemplified by Senator Edward Kennedy, contends that the

government can never contain medical costs unless it controls the medical

system. To that end, Kennedy has tirelessly pushed for a nationwide, largely

publicly financed, centrally planned approach to health care. The opposite

view, espoused by David Stockman in his days in the Congress, holds that rising

medical costs reflect imperfections in the medical market. The answer,

therefore, is to unleash market forces through more competition.<p>



<p>



<p>



Of the two views, Stockman's seems more in harmony with the politics of the

time. The Reagan Administration plans to unveil a new medical-reform scheme,

emphasizing "market forces," about the time of the President's State of the

Union address next January.<p>



<p>



<p>



The logic of the market means encouraging the pre-paid medical plans known as

health-maintenance organizations. It also means--though this may or may not be

a feature of the President's plan--removing some of the padding that now

protects the typical patient from his medical bills. Economists lament "third

party" payment schemes, whether run by Blue Cross or by the U.S. government,

because they blunt the instinct for frugality that is so powerful when one's

own money is at stake. When the patient can pass the bill to someone else, why

should he worry about unnecessary tests? Why should he wait two weeks for an

appointment at the doctor's office when he can use the hospital emergency room

as a clinic? He will ultimately pay the bill, of course, through higher taxes

or insurance premiums; but the market functions poorly when its messages are so

long delayed and so weak.<p>



<p>



<p>



One government economist, who chooses to remain unnamed, has taken reliance on

the market a radical step further. Medicare's biggest economic problem, the

economist argues, is the last-resort measures taken before an elderly patient's

death, which dwarf the costs of previous care. When patients and their families

decide how hard the doctors should fight, and with what machines, finances do

not color the deliberations, because Medicare covers nearly all hospital fees.

The economist argues that when such a patient dies, his estate should be tithed

to recover a share of his "Medicare profit"--the difference between the

premiums he has put into the system and the benefits paid on his behalf. This,

the argument continues, would repair the social contract between the

generations. It would also build into individual decisions the same realities

that the nation faces, as high-priced medical possibilities grow more rapidly

than resources.<p>



<p>



<p>



This may seem a ghoulish suggestion, as its author is aware, but when public

leaders dismiss out of hand the possibility of questioning the rules, even

though those rules lead straight to bankruptcy, are a few ghoulish thoughts so

much more dangerous than the conventional wisdom? Whether or not this specific

proposal is workable, the spirit behind it is constructive, because it

demonstrates a willingness to think of new ways out of a predicament.<p>



<p>



<p>



The main idea waiting to be spoken is that people have different claims on

public support. Yes, there are cases in which the state bestows its benefits

equally on all. The Children of rich and poor alike should be entitled to

schooling at public expense. But to extend that logic to pensions and subsidies

leads to commitments beyond our national means. The people who really <i>need</i> help

need more than they are now getting. If they are to have it, other people must

have less.<p>



<p>



<p>



In the case of medical care, there are certain obligations that the state

should assume on everyone's behalf. Any burn victim, to choose one example,

should be entitled to the best care that is available, regardless of the cost.

But there are other obligations that the nation cannot assume, simply because

there would never be enough money to pay for them. Medical technology now

offers answers to many of mankind's universal complaints. Corneal surgery can

eliminate much of the need for eyeglasses. Joints can be rebuilt, arteries

reamed, gums surgically lifted and the underlying bone scraped to remove

plaque. We all "need" such services, but if all these innumerable repairs to

all parts of all bodies were carried out, the cost would rival the gross

national product.<p>



<p>



<p>



How, then, can we decide where to draw the line? One way is to ask each patient

to share more of the cost, giving him a stake in the decision about costly

care. But if that is done without recognizing the differences in economic need,

it will deny some people a more basic level of medical care.<p>



<p>



<p>



A twenty-dollar physician's fee, or a $500 deductible for hospitalization,

would mean quite different things to a retired couple with pensions and

dividends of $30,000 and a widow surviving on $4,000 from Social Security. For

the one, it would mean some sacrifice; for the other, denial of care. Yet our

retirement plans, in their magnificent evenhandedness, treat the poor widow and

the well-off couple the same. When we provide for some, we must provide for

all. If we change the rules so as to balance the budget, we revoke the widow's

right to treatment. But if we do not, we lose control of our financial

future.<p>



<p>



<p>



The original genius of Social Security was precisely that it did treat everyone

the same. No one need feel humiliated by accepting its benefits, because it was

not welfare. Everyone was included in the plan. As a political ideal, this is

most attractive; but, in Social Security as in Medicare, it may simply have

become too costly to sustain.<p>



<p>



<p>



Consider two of the major proposals for bringing Social Security's commitments

into line with its resources. One is to raise the retirement age, in

recognition of medical improvements and demographic shifts. Raising the

retirement age to sixty-eight by the end of this century would keep the average

time in retirement one quarter as long as the average adult life-span--the same

balance that has prevailed for the past few years. Another proposal is to hold

down the automatic increases in Social Security and other benefits, perhaps by

gearing them to the Consumer Price Index or the average increase in wages,

whichever was less in a given year. If wages rose faster than prices, the

buying power of the pension would be fully protected. If the reverse, people of

all ages would share in the sacrifice of a less productive economy. (The CPI

will, in any case, soon be revised to eliminate the housing-cost bias.)<p>



<p>



<p>



But if changes like these were applied "fairly," with equal effect on all, the

results would be unfair. Some people need the payments; others do not.<p>



<p>



<p>



To speak of "the aged," or "Social Security recipients," as one homogeneous

group no longer makes sense. As recently as twenty years ago, it did. Those

above sixty-five were then an economically distinct group. Like black Americans

or single women heading households, they were on the whole poorer than other

people. The economic differences within the group were less important than the

gap between them and the American norm. To aim a program at all retired people

not only made political sense, in avoiding the taint of welfare; it also made

economic sense, for it transferred money to people in need.<p>



<p>



<p>



That has changed. Older Americans are now economically very much like their

children's generation, and their grandchildrens'. Michael Hurd and John B.

Shoven, of the National Bureau of Economic Research, have reported that the per

capita income of people over sixty-five is now higher than for the population

as a whole. In 1978, it was 121 percent of the national norm. Two thirds of all

people over sixty-five own at least one home.<p>



<p>



<p>



As the differences between the generations have diminished, the differences

among older people have grown more acute. On average, those above sixty-five

enjoy parity with those below; but the average conceals many retired people who

are desperately poor. About a fifth of all retired couples have incomes above

$24,000; but of the 5.8 million single women sixty-five or older, fully half

have incomes below $5,000. As the world works, the wealthiest couples generally

receive the highest Social Security benefits (because they earned more when

working) but depend on them least. For the couples making more than $24,000,

the comparatively large Social Security check represents about one sixth of

their income. For the poorest elderly women, their smaller check is more than

80 percent of their total support.<p>



<p>



<p>



Can it be fair to treat these people "equally," to hold the widow's $300 a

month and the couple's $900 a month to an "even" 5 percent increase? Only a

perverted sense of fairness is thereby honored; yet it is this kind of equity

that our evenhanded entitlement policy now serves.<p>



<p>



<p>



In practical terms, the solution might be to provide a full cost-of-living

adjustment for only a certain portion of Social Security benefits--say, the

first $500 a month. A more significant step might be to make Social Security

benefits subject to federal income tax. The automatic workings of the IRS are

administratively far simpler than any other means for concentrating scarce

resources on people in need. Social Security is already subject to a tax of

sorts--the "earnings test," which reduces benefits by $1 for each $2 a

recipient earns above $6,000 per year. (The limit is $4,400 for those under the

age of sixty-five.) But the test does not apply to people above the age of

seventy-two, and next year the age will fall to seventy. More important, it

applies only to <i>earnings</i>, from jobs, and not to investment income or other

pensions, which are the major source of income for the most affluent older

people.<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet to tax Social Security would be heresy: that attitude is nearly universal,

its emotional and political power a legacy of the era when we could

effortlessly afford to treat everyone "equally." As I have tried to suggest,

that era has ended, but adjusting our assumptions takes time. The only

political proposition more challenging than taxing Social Security would be

carrying the logic to its next step, and asking why there should be extra

exemptions on Form 1040 for everyone over the age of sixty-five. Since older

Americans are, on the whole, economically even with everyone else, why are the

exemptions necessary? And since they transfer money to the wealthiest members

of the group (those who pay taxes) and do little or nothing for the poorer 50

percent, how can they be defended?<p>



<p>



<p>



We are understandably reluctant to face seemingly mean-spirited questions such

as these. Yet our reluctance helps explain why the entitlements have grown so

large, and why we seem so powerless to control them. We are also hindered by a

widespread misunderstanding of where most people stand on the economic pyramid,

and who should therefore be entitled to help. A family whose income is in the

mid-$30,000s is part of the richest 20 percent of all Americans. A family in

the mid-$50,000s is in the upper 5 percent. Yet most such people would be

horrified to think that they were anything but "middle class," entitled to

public help in financing their homes or sending their children to school and to

the rewards of a lifetime of work in the form of monthly Social Security

checks. As individuals, they undoubtedly deserve help; but if all of us are

entitled, where will the money come from?<p>



<p>



<p>



The entitlements problem has forced such questions upon us. The cost of

ignoring them is not simply the obvious--the automatic growth of federal

spending--but also the subtle destruction of other public goals. This effect

transcends ideology. It matters little whether you want to improve education

for all children, or build more aircraft carriers, or lift the burden of

taxation from the shoulders of America's entrepreneurs--all causes are in

jeopardy as long as more and more of us are "entitled" to support from everyone

else.<p>

<br>

</blockquote>

<hr>

<blockquote>

James Fallows is the Washington Editor of <i>The Atlantic Monthly</i>. 

He is the author, most recently, of <i>Breaking the News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy</i>.<p></blockquote>

</blockquote>

<p><hr>



<img src="../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1982 by James Fallows.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-25</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B040-75</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/defense/moskos.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117193909 text/html 42296
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:38:56 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:47:09 GMT
Content-length: 42090
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Success Story: Blacks in the Military

</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>May 1986</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Success Story: Blacks in the Military

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Charles C. Moskos
</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>Blacks occupy more management positions in the military than in any other 
sector of American society.</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>T</font>he banquet for black officers of flag rank fairly glittered with stars. 
Seventy-six black generals and admirals--active, reserve, and 
retired--were being honored at the National Guard Armory in Washington, 
D.C. The date was February 26, 1982. More than two thousand people were 
present. The secretary of defense, Caspar Weinberger, gave the principal 
address. Perhaps predictably, the banquet received little attention in the 
national media. Surprisingly, however, it also received little attention 
in the black press.<p>

The absence of coverage was noteworthy because the record of the U.S. 
military in race relations is one that deserves recognition. Some 400,000 
blacks serve in an active-duty force of 2.1 million. Most of these men and 
women serve in the enlisted ranks, many as noncommissioned officers, or 
NCOs, and an increasing number can be found in the officer corps. Blacks 
occupy more management positions in the military than they do in business, 
education, journalism, government, or any other significant sector of 
American society. The armed services still have race problems, but these 
are minimal compared with the problems that exist in other institutions, 
public and private.<p>


A visitor to a military installation will witness a degree and a quality 
of racial integration that are rarely encountered elsewhere. At many 
points in their terms of military service whites are sure to be commanded 
by black superiors. In the performance of their military duties blacks and 
whites typically work together with little display of racial animosity Not 
only do whites and blacks inhabit the same barracks but also equal 
treatment is the rule in such non-duty facilities as chapels, barbershops, 
post exchanges, movie theaters, snack bars, and swimming pools. 
Observation of any dining facility (as the mess hall has been renamed) 
reveals little informal racial separation. A rule of thumb is that the 
more military the environment, the more effective the integration. 
Interracial comity is stronger in the field than in the garrison, stronger 
on duty than off, and stronger on post than in the world beyond the base.<p>


By the fall of 1985 blacks accounted for 13 percent of enlisted personnel 
in the Navy, 17 percent in the Air Force, 20 percent in the Marine Corps, 
and 30 percent in the Army. Each branch of the military has a distinctive 
history and reputation with respect to blacks. Of the four services the 
Navy has been the slowest to recruit large numbers of blacks (although 
today it recruits actively). The Army has always been at the forefront. 
Ten percent of its officers today are black, a proportion twice that for 
the Air Force and Marine Corps and three times that for the Navy. The 
Army, with some 776,000 men and women on active duty, is by far the 
largest of the armed services. In terms of what blacks have achieved in 
uniform and the difficulties they still face, the Army is a bellwether for 
the military as a whole.<p>


Military sociology is a small academic specialty, most of whose 
practitioners, like me, are white. My research has allowed me to observe 
at close hand the variable progress of race relations in the Army for 
three decades. The title of my first published journal article, written in 
1957, when I was a draftee, was "Has the Army Killed Jim Crow?" My answer 
at the time was Yes. It was clear, however, that the end of overt 
segregation in the armed forces had not spelled the end of discrimination. 
The persistence of subtle forms of racism in an otherwise completely 
integrated setting defines to this day the experience of blacks in the 
military. Yet there is no question that on the whole the military has 
served blacks well, just as blacks have served the military well. The 
story of blacks in the military is instructive. So is the fact that it has 
received little attention.<p>


The account that follows is based on my own observations of Army units in 
the United States and in Europe and on numerous interviews with blacks of 
every rank, including a half dozen black generals whom I have known for 
many years. Because the military personnel I spoke with asked not to be 
identified, I have used pseudonyms.<p>





Some background information may be useful. In 1948 President Harry S. 
Truman abolished racial segregation in the armed services by executive 
order. Starting with the Korean War, in 1950, integration proceeded 
rapidly: first at training bases in the United States, then in combat 
units in Korea, and finally at U.S. military installations around the 
world. Racial integration in the Army was accomplished with striking speed 
(the process took only five years) and thoroughness, at least on a formal 
level. By the mid-1950s a snapshot of a hundred enlisted men on parade 
would have shown, say, twelve black faces; integration was a fact of life. 
At a time when blacks were still arguing for their educational rights 
before the Supreme Court and marching for their social and political 
rights in the Deep South, the Army accomplished integration with little 
outcry--but not without cost. It almost surely lost support from some of 
its traditional conservative allies, yet it did not gain support from 
liberal groups.<p>


One reason that integration went so smoothly was that at first it affected 
enlisted men almost exclusively, and enlisted men of every race, as the 
saying went, had always been treated "like Negroes." There were few black 
officers in the Army during the 1950s, so integration required only 
relatively minor adjustments on the part of the command structure; 
resistance to greater change might have been intense. If the paucity of 
black officers (they would make up less than three percent of all Army 
officers until the Vietnam era) helped to facilitate integration, it was 
also one obvious indication that racial prejudice in the armed services 
remained a force to contend with.<p>


The main reason that integration succeeded in the military has to do with 
the special nature of military life. Orders, once given, must be followed, 
whatever a soldier's private feelings or misgivings. Those who cannot 
adapt to Army life generally either fail to re-enlist or are weeded out. 
Thus once the decision to desegregate the military was made, it was final. 
There was no turning back, no recourse to delays, no catering to racist 
sentiments. From that time on, no known racist could expect to occupy a 
position of authority in the military hierarchy.<p>


The integration of the military has taken place in three phases. From the 
Pentagon's point of view the 1950s and early 1960s--phase one--represented 
a quiet period in race relations. The increasing activism of the 
civil-rights movement, coupled with the widening of the Vietnam War, led 
to turbulent change. Truman's executive order had brought blacks partway 
into the military mainstream; the upheavals of the mid- and late 1960s 
provided the impetus for some measure of real equality.<p>


Many factors and events coincided to initiate phase two. If integration 
was the rule on base, beyond the gates discrimination was blatant, 
especially in the South. Blacks were no longer disposed to accept such 
treatment. Where, moreover, was the black officer corps? The black 
draftees of the l950s were fast becoming NCOs--the backbone of the 
Army--but as late as 1968 only 0.7 percent of the new class of plebes at 
West Point were black. Racial prejudice of some sort, blacks contended, 
was to blame. The Vietnam War heightened racial polarization. While many 
black leaders, notably Martin Luther King, Jr., denounced the war, the 
antiwar movement was led mainly by whites. Middle-class whites were the 
most adept at avoiding the draft, legally and illegally. Perhaps the most 
emotional issue of all--and one that politicians white and black still 
bring up--was the contention that black troops were used as "cannon 
fodder" in the field.<p>


This charge, as it happens, is unfair. Black fatalities amounted to 12.1 
percent of all Americans killed in Southeast Asia--a figure roughly 
proportional to the number of blacks in the U.S. population. But the other 
issues raised by blacks, inside and outside the military, were obviously 
legitimate. The war years were marked by well-publicized breakdowns of 
discipline among black servicemen and, more broadly by an atmosphere of 
racial hostility in the ranks. Racial clashes occurred in Vietnam, on 
military bases around the world, and on ships at sea. All of this must be 
seen in context, however. In the waning years of the war the Army was 
unraveling in more respects than racial ones.<p>


Racial tensions subsided as the war wound down, and the military took a 
hard look at its procedures. Several steps were taken to improve relations 
between blacks and whites. Most visibly, courses in black history and the 
dynamics of racial prejudice became an integral part of every soldier's 
basic training. How much good this accomplished is impossible to say. Some 
soldiers--black and white--derided such efforts as attempts at "black 
pacification." And junior black officers were often shunted into 
race-relations slots (to teach the courses and serve as equal-opportunity 
officers) and thus were unable to pursue careers in other, 
non-race-related arenas of military service. Many senior officers retiring 
today do so with a heavy conscience, knowing that they did not do all they 
might have to save the careers of young black officers who were thrown 
into the breach.<p>


More important for blacks than the new race-relations curriculum was the 
revision of the efficiency report, a performance evaluation that carries a 
lot of weight in all promotions. Starting in the early 1970s a new 
category appeared in the efficiency reports for officers and NCOs: 
race-relations skills. Filling out this section was mandatory, and the 
requirement was rigorously enforced. More blacks received promotions. Some 
officers with a poor record on race were relieved of command. All of this 
helped to set a tone. If only for reasons of self-interest, Army officers 
and NCOs became highly sensitive to the issue of race. Today one is more 
likely to hear racial jokes in a faculty club than in an officers' club. 
And in an officers' club one will surely see more blacks.<p>


The end of the draft, in 1973, ushered in phase three. With the advent of 
the volunteer military, the white middle-class soldier became something of 
an endangered species. The military, armed with bonuses and the prospect 
of good pay, began recruiting at the margin. The citizen-soldier was 
replaced by Economic Man. For poor blacks and poor whites there was simply 
nothing like the Army. In the last year of the draft blacks made up about 
17 percent of the enlisted force. By the early 1980s the proportion had 
nearly doubled. The qualitative improvement in the Army's race relations 
was thus accompanied by a major demographic shift. The appointment in 1977 
of Clifford Alexander, a black, as the secretary of the Army seemed to 
ratify what was occurring at all levels in that branch of the service. 
Even today, in a Republican Administration not known for its openness to 
blacks, the Department of the Army remains an exception. Two of its five 
assistant secretaries are black: Delbert R. Spurlock, for manpower and 
reserve affairs, and John L. Shannon, for installations and logistics.<p>





The army's enlisted men, three out of ten of whom today are black, will 
continue to come disproportionately from the pool of young blacks as long 
as opportunities for these youths remain limited in other occupations. But 
blacks are not only being pushed into the Army; they are also being 
pulled. In recent years several factors have made a spell in the Army 
increasingly attractive: a more positive image of military life as the 
memory of Vietnam recedes, a vastly improved recruiting command, the 
availability (since 1982) of GI Bill-style educational benefits, and the 
generous pay earned by new recruits. A buck private receives a base pay of 
$7,668 a year, in addition to room and board, medical care, pension, and 
other benefits. He may receive an enlistment bonus of up to $8,000.<p>


A 1982 study published by Martin Binkin and Mark J. Eitelberg, of the 
Brookings Institution, showed that an astonishing 42 percent of all 
qualified black youths enter the military, whereas 14 percent of their 
white counterparts do. Since the end of the draft the proportion of high 
school graduates among blacks entering the Army has consistently exceeded 
that among whites, although the gap narrowed in the 1980s with the overall 
improvement in recruiting. In 1985, 95.4 percent of black men joining the 
Army had high school diplomas, in comparison with 87.6 percent of whites. 
Indeed, the Army's enlisted ranks are the only significant social arena in 
which black educational levels (though not test scores) surpass those of 
whites. A longtime employee of the U.S. Army in Europe--a German--told me 
during the late 1970s, "In the volunteer Army you are recruiting the best 
of the blacks and the worst of the whites." At the time, his observation 
was basically correct. Since then, as the Army's enlistment package has 
gradually become more generous, better-qualified whites have been lured to 
the recruiter and the proportion of blacks in the enlisted ranks has 
dropped by a few percentage points. Still, the overall picture since the 
end of the draft is one of growing black participation in the volunteer 
Army. And it continues to be true that the black recruits are among "the 
best of the blacks."<p>


Young men and women can join the Army for enlistments of two, three, or 
four years. All soldiers undergo an eight-week basic course, essentially 
infantry training. Basic training represents a leveling process. At no 
other time in a soldier's Army career will racial differences be so 
utterly inconsequential. After basic training the recruit is sent to 
advanced training, where he is assigned a military occupational specialty 
(MOS). Most advanced training courses take six to twelve weeks, though 
training for some technical specialties may require as long as a year. 
Upon completion of advanced training the enlisted man is sent to a 
permanent duty station, where, in most cases, he can expect to complete 
his initial enlistment.<p>


Blacks and whites diverge during selection for advanced training, because 
black soldiers tend to score lower than whites on aptitude tests. About 
two thirds of white recruits, and about one third of blacks, fall in the 
top half of the test distribution. Black and white test scores are much 
closer among soldiers than among civilians, but the gap in the Army is 
substantial nonetheless. Because scores on aptitude tests help determine a 
soldier's MOS, there is a racial differential in many military jobs. Thus 
blacks are more likely than whites to be assigned to "support" branches of 
the service. They make up 50 percent of those in supply, 46 percent of 
those in food service, and 44 percent of those in general clerical work. 
Blacks are less likely than whites to be found in highly technical fields, 
such as signal intelligence, cryptography, and electronic warfare. And in 
combat specialties--the guts of the Army--black participation has been 
declining. From 1980 to 1985 the percentage of blacks in the infantry 
dropped from 32 to 22 percent. Declines were also registered in the 
armored and artillery specialties. Although blacks are overrepresented in 
combat specialties relative to their numbers in American society, they are 
considerably underrepresented relative to their numbers in the U.S. Army. 
Despite popular perceptions, black males are not being tracked into combat 
units.<p>


The disparities in job assignments stem ultimately from the fact that the 
Army's insulation from civilian life is not total. Whereas blacks in the 
military are more likely than whites to have high school diplomas, they 
are also more likely to have attended inferior public schools. The Army 
can often mitigate the effects of social and educational deprivation, but 
it cannot eliminate them.<p>





In one important respect black soldiers do significantly better than white 
soldiers: making it through the initial enlistment. Since 1978 about one 
white male soldier in three has been prematurely discharged for reasons of 
undisciplined behavior, lack of aptitude, psychological problems, or the 
like. The figure for black male soldiers is one in four. Even among 
soldiers of similar educational background, blacks are more likely than 
whites to complete their enlistments.<p>


For women soldiers, the racial contrast in attrition rates is even more 
striking. Blacks now make up 42 percent of enlisted women (who account for 
10 percent of the enlisted ranks overall). Black females have been far 
more likely to complete their enlistments than white females. The low 
attrition rates for black women in the Army are not easily explained. Many 
black women claim that they have more street savvy than their white 
sisters, that they are simply better able to take the physical demands of 
Army life, or that they have a better sense of knowing when to "get over" 
(as goldbricking is now called) and when not to. Perhaps the main reason 
why blacks, male or female, are more likely to make a go of it in the Army 
is that they know that for them the grass is not necessarily greener in 
civilian life.<p>


But blacks who return to civilian life after being honorably discharged 
earn significantly more than blacks who have not served in the military. 
The most carefully crafted research on the matter has been conducted by 
Harley L. Browning, Sally C. Lopreato, and Dudley L. Poston, Jr., a team 
of sociologists at the University of Texas at Austin. They have found that 
white veterans with a high school education fare the same in civilian life 
as their nonveteran counterparts, but that military service has a 
substantial positive impact on men who have not finished high school or 
who are black (or Hispanic). This finding is noteworthy because soldiers 
in general and black soldiers in particular do not leave the military with 
skills readily transferable to the civilian marketplace. The explanation 
seems to be that the military teaches deprived youths how to cooperate and 
how to cope with the bureaucratic complexity of large-scale organizations. 
The military, in the words of the Texas study's authors, functions as a 
"bridging environment."<p>


But I think there is more to it than that. The interracial leveling of 
military service gives black soldiers a perspective on society less easily 
acquired by black nonveterans. Just to have completed a tour of duty means 
that a black soldier has competed, and competed successfully, with whites. 
The Army experience emphasizes the correlation between reward and effort 
(as opposed to reward and race). A black sergeant put it this way: "The 
Army showed me that life can be hard no matter what your color. No race 
has it easy." That realization surely accounts for some of the intangible 
advantage black veterans take away from military service.<p>


If the Army is a bridging environment, it is also one in which relations 
between the races, particularly among enlisted men, remain complex. Racial 
harmony does not always prevail. Some whites see blacks as arrogant if not 
threatening, and as the beneficiaries of a double standard. Some blacks 
see whites as deceptive and sometimes racist, and as the beneficiaries of 
a double standard. When a post is large enough to have more than one 
enlisted men's club, the clubs tend to become monopolized by one race or 
the other. As elsewhere in society, the closest friendships normally 
develop between people of similar educational or social backgrounds.<p>


Still, give or take a surly remark here, a bruised sensibility there, the 
races do get on. The most common topics of concern and conversation, among 
and between the races, have nothing to do with race but deal with the work 
of the Army and with the good and the bad of military life. The locus of 
friction in the Army lies not so much between whites and blacks as between 
soldiers and sergeants, enlisted men and officers, line units and staff 
units, and so forth.<p>


The influx of blacks in the Army has changed the culture of the barracks. 
A partial Afro-Americanization of enlisted life has occurred. Black 
Pentecostal congregations have been established on many bases; their 
services not only have attracted some whites but also have begun to 
influence the style of worship in more-conventional on-post services. 
White soldiers are moving away from a long-standing preference for 
country-and-western music. Rock-and-roll is now the music of choice, but 
disco, soul, and especially rap music have strong followings. If there is 
a favorite comedian among enlisted men today, it is undoubtedly Eddie 
Murphy.<p>


How do whites and blacks perceive the racial climate in the military? 
Opinion surveys commissioned by the Army--there have been at least a dozen 
since the end of the draft--repeatedly reveal that whereas black soldiers 
are more likely than white soldiers to discern the persistence of racial 
discrimination in the military, they are also more likely to express 
satisfaction with their Army careers. The views of Specialist William 
Jones, a tank mechanic in West Germany, are fairly typical of what one 
hears from junior black enlisted men. Jones, who comes from the 
Cabrini-Green housing project in Chicago, credits the Army with "having 
pulled me up, and saving me from the streets." He does not mind fixing 
tanks but knows that his Army training will not have a direct civilian 
payoff. Jones sends money home to his mother on a regular basis, and he 
also puts fifty dollars a month into an educational fund (the Army matches 
it twofold). Jones likes the Army but knows it is not perfect.<p>


"You can still bump into an invisible shield of racism, but you have to 
ignore it," Jones says. "I was at the EM [enlisted men's] club and heard a 
white call someone a nigger the other night. I was shocked to hear it. I 
know whites are still top dog. But I know that we've got to get along 
together in peacetime if we're going to fight together in wartime." Jones 
says that when he goes back home now he has little in common with his 
friends who stayed behind. "They're still hanging around waiting for 
something to happen. They'll never grow up. They'll always be losers. We 
don't have much to talk about anymore."<p>





Relative rates of promotion have something to tell us about the status of 
blacks in the Army. During his first enlistment a soldier can expect to 
achieve the rank of specialist or corporal (E-4) or in some cases sergeant 
(E-5). Advancement to senior NCO grades--staff sergeant (E-6) and 
upward--takes much longer. A complex formula that weighs test scores, 
evaluations by superiors, service record, and interviews with a promotion 
board determines who will fill the openings that occur. Within twenty 
years of service a soldier will almost surely attain the rank of staff 
sergeant, and most likely will make sergeant first class (E-7) and get a 
shot at master sergeant (E-8). Sergeant major (E-9), the Army's most 
senior enlisted rank, is attained only by exceptional men and women, 
almost all of whom are making the Army a thirty-year career.<p>


If there is a black center to the Army, it is among the 94,000 black 
noncommissioned officers. Because blacks are about one and a half times 
more likely than whites to re-enlist after their first hitch, the black 
presence in the Army is notably high in the NCO corps. About a third of 
all buck sergeants and staff sergeants and about a quarter of all first 
sergeants, master sergeants, and sergeants major are black. The rates of 
black promotion to the top three enlisted ranks are slightly lower than 
average. Primarily this reflects the relative underrepresentation of 
blacks in combat specialties, where promotion is easiest to achieve.<p>


Sergeant Major Harold Smith joined the Army in 1956, the same year I was 
drafted. He has seen from the inside all the changes that I have seen as a 
frequent visitor. "The longer you stay in," he told me not long ago, "the 
more you can see that racism knows how to hide itself. But it's there. 
Still, I owe the Army a lot. When I came in, it was my last option. I 
wasn't middle-class and I sure wasn't upper-class. I wasn't even 
working-class. So you know what that leaves."<p>


"The Army was my only chance to turn myself around, and I took it," Major 
Smith said. "I went to Vietnam three times. Along the way I picked up a 
bachelor's degree, and I'm halfway through my master's. But the thing I'll 
never forget is those days of race troubles. I used to think those 
race-relations and black-history courses were all to the good. Now I think 
we were tricked. The black soldier needs courses on how to use the system, 
not on telling whites our secrets."<p>


"There are more-subtle forms of racism today than there used to be," Smith 
continued. "Some of the white boys have posters saying THE SOUTH WILL RISE 
AGAIN. I tell them to take them down, because it bothers the blacks. Some 
of the white sergeants say I'm too touchy. I'll say this, though. I know 
some of those white sergeants are racists, but they never once let 
anything slip. That's progress of a sort.<p>


"Why did I stay in so long? I wanted to teach young black soldiers how to 
make it in a white man's world. If you expect to give orders, you have to 
learn to take orders. You have to adapt to the Army; it's not going to 
change for you. It's as simple as that."<p>


Many black NCOs profess a kind of bootstrap conservatism. They can easily 
recognize a part of themselves in the character of Master Sergeant Vernon 
Waters, in the movie A Soldier's Story, set in the days of the segregated 
Army. Sergeant Waters is obsessively concerned that blacks not play the 
fool in front of whites. Waters can be seen as a martinet or as someone 
who challenges black soldiers to do their best. What is different today, 
of course, is that black NCOs lead soldiers of all races. Black sergeants 
take umbrage at any hint that they are partial to blacks. Indeed, an 
analysis of efficiency reports by Charles Hines, a black brigadier general 
who holds a Ph.D. in sociology, suggests that black sergeants grade 
"average" black soldiers more severely than white sergeants do. If there 
is any racial favoritism in superior-subordinate relations, it is 
certainly not black favoring black.<p>


Because of their unwillingness to show favoritism, a number of senior 
black noncommissioned officers say that they feel helpless to alter a 
trend that has disturbing implications for junior black NCOs. During the 
late 1970s, when recruitment and retention rates were relatively low, the 
Army accepted many people into its ranks--including many blacks--who were 
of less than superior caliber.<p>


Army Secretary Alexander dismissed as racist any criticism of the quality 
of the new recruits. Now, at a time of high recruitment and retention 
rates, those enlistees are coming up for re-enlistment and promotion. 
Thanks both to the lingering effects of the recession of 198l-1983 and to 
new enlistment incentives being offered, the Army has been enjoying 
something of a buyer's market. Standards for re-enlistment and promotion 
have been raised. Some black soldiers who have performed well in 
subordinate roles and who would easily have won promotion several years 
ago cannot meet the new standards. The senior black NCOs I've talked to 
are of two minds about the situation. On the one hand, they know that many 
of the most vulnerable black candidates for promotion were coaxed to join 
by an Army desperate for recruits, and encouraged to think of military 
service as a career. On the other hand, they believe that the highest 
possible standards must be maintained, both for the Army's sake and so 
that there will be no question that blacks have met those standards.<p>


What the near future holds is already clear. Blacks in the Army, hampered 
by low test scores, will be promoted into the ranks of the NCO corps at a 
rate somewhat lower than that for whites. But because disproportionately 
high numbers of blacks will be candidates for promotion, blacks will 
continue to account for more than their share of the Army's NCOs. The 
social importance of these twenty-and thirty-year soldiers transcends 
their function in the military. Every year for decades to come some 2,500 
black NCOs in the Army (5,000 in the military as a whole) are expected to 
retire from service. Most of them will be relatively young and looking 
forward to second careers. The impact of this group of men and women on 
the civilian black community is impossible to predict, but it is likely to 
be tangible and positive.<p>





Above the ranks of noncommissioned officers in the Army is the officer 
corps, where one person in ten today is black (the figure was one in 
twenty-five as recently as l972). If officers are the executives of the 
armed forces, then the armed forces boast more black executives than any 
other institution in the country. The Army's l0,000 black officers come 
from several places. The most prestigious source of a commission is still 
the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and about seven percent of its 
graduating class in recent years has been black. However, most officers, 
white or black, come not from West Point but from campus-based detachments 
of the Reserve Officer Training Corps. ROTC produces six times as many 
officers as the Military Academy does, and one ROTC graduate out of five 
is black. The expansion of the black officer corps is due in part to the 
expansion of ROTC since l969 at historically black colleges--the 
Pentagon's response to the abolition of ROTC at many predominantly white 
institutions. Almost half of all Army ROTC, commissions received by blacks 
are awarded by twenty-one black schools.<p>


Whether or not race enters into the officer-promotion process remains a 
bone of contention in the military. An equal-opportunity assessment 
conducted in l984 shows that black and white officers are selected at 
about the same rates for the advanced service schools, war colleges, and 
command assignments that are so important for career advancement. Still, 
white officers believe that blacks are unfairly favored in promotion 
decisions; black officers contend that they have to be better qualified 
than whites in order to advance. The truth seems to me to lie with the 
black viewpoint.<p>


A very senior black officer gave me this succinct appraisal, one that is 
seconded by most older black officers: "You don't have to be a supernigger 
anymore, but you still have to be better than the rest to make it." 
Another senior black officer said, "We can run the race with handicaps, 
but don't expect blacks to perform miracles. The Army, to its credit, 
doesn't make us perform miracles." He continued, "I'm worried about some 
of the younger guys. They don't understand that a black still has to do 
more than a white to get promoted--maybe not as much as before, but still 
more. If they think equal effort will get equal reward, they've got a big 
surprise coming."<p>


At the pinnacle of the military hierarchy are, of course, the generals. As 
of early this year there were thirty-one black Army generals on active 
duty, about seven percent of the total. Another six black generals were in 
the Army Reserves or the National Guard. About fifty were retired. Some 
one hundred blacks have achieved flag rank in the U.S. military, all but 
four of whom are alive today. Two have been four-star generals--the Army's 
Roscoe Robinson, Jr., and the late Daniel ("Chappie") James, of the Air 
Force. Eight blacks have attained the three-star rank. Two black women, 
Hazel W. Johnson-Brown and Sherian G. Cadoria, have become brigadier 
generals in the Army. The promotion of a black to flag rank is no longer a 
rarity in the American military. It occasions little comment.<p>


To a person, black generals look back upon extremely satisfying careers. 
They are rarely shy about their accomplishments or abashed about their 
patriotism. If there is a sense of disappointment among them, it is not 
with the military but with what happens after they leave the military. 
Black generals feel that few of their kind attain post-retirement 
positions commensurate with their abilities. One retiree put it simply: "I 
will state categorically that no black general ever got a decent job in 
the private sector in Washington, D.C." Another said, "Look--the offers 
come rolling in for white generals even before they're out of uniform."<p>


What is particularly puzzling is that most of these retired black generals 
once had responsibility for thousands of soldiers and oversaw logistics 
systems of enormous cost and complexity. Many are familiar with the 
contracting and procurement procedures of the defense industry. Yet 
consultancies and seats in the boardrooms of the military-industrial 
complex continue to elude even the most highly qualified black generals. 
Why is this the case? It is hard not to conclude that the discrimination 
these men have overcome in the military overtakes them again in civilian 
life.<p>


For the time being, the state of the black officer corps appears healthy. 
If there is concern among black officers, it has to do with the quality of 
newly minted black second lieutenants, fresh out of ROTC. A relatively 
small percentage of blacks at predominantly white schools participate in 
ROTC. And though ROTC enjoys more general support at historically black 
schools, this support is not as strong as it once was. These schools, 
moreover, no longer attract the cream of black high school graduates. 
Observers agree that the levels of writing and analytic skills among 
recent ROTC graduates from the black colleges are lower than those of 
their predecessors--a development that could eventually affect promotion 
rates. Black leaders in the Army worry that the pool of highly qualified 
black officer-candidates could dry up. One senior black officer told me 
that unless the black middle class somehow gets behind ROTC, the patterns 
of the old segregated Army might recur--with blacks aplenty in the 
enlisted ranks and a senior officer corps consisting almost solely of 
whites.<p>





Whereas the black community is alert to the opportunities that the 
military offers its young people, it has difficulty focusing on the black 
career officer. Certainly, black officers are seen as individual success 
stories by their families, friends, and neighbors. But the leaders of 
black organizations seem reluctant to recognize the achievements of blacks 
in the military. I have asked many senior black officers why this should 
be the case, and the following reply is typical of what they had to say: 
"To pat us on the back would be to pat the military on the back. This they 
can't afford to do. It galls them that of all institutions, it is the Army 
that is really making a go of integration."<p>


It galls them, I was told, for several reasons. One is that blacks in the 
military have chosen to pay their dues in the white system, not the black 
one; as a result, career blacks in the Army have less of an affinity with 
established black organizations than many other blacks have. More 
important, though, is the ideological orientation of civilian black 
leaders. Most of them are uninterested in, even alienated from, the 
long-term goals of American foreign policy, among which resistance to 
Soviet expansion is central. When foreign-policy issues are raised by 
black leaders, the discussion generally involves racist features of U.S. 
behavior overseas, especially in Africa and the Caribbean. I do not know 
of a single elected black official or prominent spokesman who supports 
increased defense spending. Among traditional black leaders there does not 
seem to be much conviction that blacks have a stake in broad defense 
issues. Black leaders often find it hard to reconcile themselves to the 
fact that black officers are the military executors of policies that they 
deem irrelevant at best. When the Congressional Black Caucus issued a 
formal condemnation of the U.S. invasion of Grenada, the reaction of one 
black general was, "Why can't they support us just this once?" Another 
general explained, "I just tune out the so-called black leadership when it 
comes to anything military."<p>


As such comments suggest, the estrangement is mutual. Black officers tend 
to be unimpressed with the black civilian establishment. Senior black 
officers emphasize that as military managers they have acquired a special 
set of skills. They command thousands of men, and they give orders to 
whites as well as blacks. They have learned from the inside how a 
mainstream organization functions. Inevitably, their circumstances affect 
their perceptions. Among black civilians a large majority sees in Jesse 
Jackson a stirring leader who was shortchanged by the Democratic Party 
establishment. Many black military officers, in contrast, see Jackson as a 
man who does not understand the white world and who is therefore destined 
to be largely ineffective on a national stage. Black officers view some 
aspects of the civilian black leadership's agenda as highly dubious; those 
who argue that affirmative action is necessary nevertheless believe that 
preferential treatment is inappropriate in the military. They draw 
manifest self-esteem from the fact that they themselves have not been 
beneficiaries of such treatment--rather, the reverse. Black officers 
distrust black leaders in civilian life who would seek advancement through 
racial politics or as supplicants of benevolent whites. As a group they 
are unquestionably less liberal than blacks outside the military. While no 
precise data exist on the subject, career blacks in the Army were probably 
much more likely than civilian blacks to vote for Ronald Reagan in 1984.<p>


Even so, however, my own informal poll indicates that by far the majority 
of black officers and NCOs voted Democratic. For the fact is that blacks 
in the military, unlike whites, cannot forget their color. One career 
soldier told me, "My wife said I should vote Reagan because the man gave 
me a raise. But my father made me promise I would never vote for anyone 
who kept the black man down. I kept my promise to my father."<p>





I have asked many Army blacks what it was that made a military career 
attractive as an avenue of mobility. For one thing, many of them have 
said, there were enough blacks in the Army to promise a certain degree of 
social comfort and professional support. For another, there were enough 
non-black and non-poor people to prevent the Army from being thought of as 
a "black" institution or a haven for society's underclass. The Army, in 
short, delivered the uplift but not the stigma of a government social 
program. If the Army has succeeded as a remedial organization for many 
youths with otherwise dead-end prospects, it may be precisely because the 
Army does not admit to being a remedial organization at all. In the coming 
debate on whether the nation should institute some sort of system of 
national service for the young, this point might profitably be borne in 
mind. <p>


	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1986 by Charles Moskos.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
The Atlantic Monthly; May 1986; Success Story: Blacks in the Military;
 Volume 257, No. 5;
page(s) 64-72.
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-26</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B044-255</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/immigrat/wardf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117200836 text/html 27977
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:08:32 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:59:30 GMT
Content-length: 27771
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Immigration and the South

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>November 1905</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



Immigration and the South



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Robert DeCourcy Ward</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4></i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>T</font>he North finds itself greatly burdened with the many problems which have grown

out of, or have at least been greatly aggravated by, the enormous and very

indiscriminate immigration of the past few years, and is rapidly becoming

convinced of the impossibility, even with unlimited resources of men and money,

of properly assimilating this alien population so long as it is crowded into

the slums, and so long as the stream of new immigrants continues to pour in

with increasing volume. It is clear that the only remedies for existing

conditions are, first, a considerable restriction of immigration, and second,

the distribution of the present slum populations, as well as of the arriving

aliens, through the agricultural districts. The second of these remedies alone

is wholly inadequate, for to attempt to relieve the pressure in the crowded

cities by dispersing their inhabitants, without at the same time further

limiting the numbers of newcomers who pour in, is like trying to keep a boat

bailed out without stopping the leak. Distribution alone simply opens the way

for a still larger immigration; the overflowing populations of Europe can send

ten new immigrants to fill every opening that may thus be created.<p>



<p>



<p>



While the North is thus preparing to unload some of its alien burdens upon

other parts of the country, and in this effort is naturally receiving every

possible assistance from the railroad companies, who see in this

distribution-scheme a large source of revenue to themselves, the South is

developing a new-born zeal for immigration. From many parts of the South there

comes a demand for laborers in the cotton fields and on the sugar plantations;

in mines, mills, and factories; on the farms and in the cities. Newspapers in

the North as well as in the South repeat the call, "more labor needed in the

South."<p>



<p>



<p>



It is not difficult to perceive some of the reasons for this new enthusiasm on

the part of the South for the immigration which has thus far gone practically

altogether in the Northern states.<p>



<p>



<p>



(1) The rapid growth of manufacturing interests has resulted in a demand for

thousands of workmen in mill and factory, which the native population has not

been able to meet.<p>



<p>



<p>



(2) The old methods of working the land, such as "cropping" and renting, which

were adopted partly because of the antipathy of the negro to continuous daily

work under the wage system, and partly because of the necessities of the

planters, have impoverished the land and do not give the best return from it.

Diversified or intensive farming will greatly improve existing conditions, and

is developing rapidly. It will supply farm products for the growing needs of

the manufacturing community and of the plantation, as well as for the Northern

markets. It will preserve the fertility of the soil, and reduce the labor cost

of the crop. For this diversified farming the negro is by many considered

unfitted, while the northern European immigrant, with his skill in this

direction, can find good openings throughout the South.<p>



<p>



<p>



(3) The South has thus far had on the whole an encouraging though somewhat

limited experience with aliens of several different nationalities, and

therefore naturally favors a larger immigration. In the matter of alien

immigration the South has hitherto experienced the benefits of very gentle,

scattered, and refreshing showers, without any of the serious consequences of

the alien cloudburst which has overwhelmed many northern communities. Small

Italian colonies, more or less successful in their outcome, have been

established at various points, as at Daphne and at Lambeth, Alabama, at

Tonitown, Arkansas, and elsewhere. In Texas, Italians have succeeded in cotton

and rice culture, in vine-growing and truck-farming. In Louisiana and in

Mississippi large number of them have proved valuable help on sugar and cotton

plantations and in truck-farming. In South Carolina a new Italian colony is to

undertake grape and silk culture.<p>



<p>



<p>



The Italian seems to be well fitted to do much of the work which needs doing in

the South, and in many parts of the southern country where Italians have

settled they are praised as industrious, thrifty, frugal, good citizens, and as

having increased land values. On some railroads, also, they are reported as

being satisfactory laborers. On the other hand, it must be noted that the most

successful settlements have been those of northern Italians; that the greater

desirability of the northern Italian is recognized wherever experience has been

had with both northern and southern Italians, and that thus far the number of

Italians in the South has been small, and practically none of the less happy

consequences of their congestion have been noted. There are also many employers

who have found Italians unsatisfactory; have considered them no improvement

upon the negro, and regard them as an undesirable element in the community.

Numerous colonies of Germans and of many other nationalities have likewise

succeeded well; but thus far the foreign elements have been unimportant, except

locally, and data are not yet at hand for any exhaustive study of their effects

upon the development of the South.<p>



<p>



<p>



(4) The southern railroads are another and an important factor in creating a

demand for more immigration. The inadequacy of the labor supply has stimulated

concerted movements on the part of mill-owners, planters, and other large

employers in many Southern states to attract immigration, and in these

movements the railroads are plying a very aggressive part, albeit their

influence is not always apparent on the surface. Efforts are everywhere being

made by the railroads to plant colonies of immigrants throughout the South.

This movement has already gained great headway. in some cases the new arrivals

are brought directly from Ellis Island; in some they are taken from one of the

large Northern cities; in most, from the farming districts of the West and

Northwest. The importation of Italian laborers into the Delta region has been

especially heavy, although it is stated that about sixty per cent of these have

already gone to the towns. Among other recent importations there have been

Germans, Swedes, Hungarians, Danes, Poles, French Canadians, and Mexicans. So

active are the railroads in this matter that it is often impossible to tell how

much of the "demand for more labor" is a bona fide one, and how much is

circulated by the railroads for their own ends. In order to increase the

immigration of Italians into the South, the Southern railroads recently

provided the Italian Ambassador with an extended tour through the South, from

which journey that gentleman returned full of enthusiasm for the courtesies

which were showered upon him, and determined to do all in his power to

encourage the immigration of his countrymen into the Southern states. At a

recent conference on immigration held in one of the Southern cities, the

influence of the railroads was so strong that a paper urging some reasonable

restriction of immigration was not allowed a public reading, and was not given

to the press. That a wholesale distribution of immigrants by transportation

companies is not so likely to be controlled by a desire to do what is best for

the community as by purely selfish interests, is a fact which has not escaped

the attention of observant persons in the South, some of whom have not been

afraid to express their views very plainly on the subject.<p>



<p>



<p>



(5) Probably the most important factor in the Southern immigration situation is

the negro himself. There is in the South to-day a widespread and decided

reaction against the negro. Many of the white population are losing patience

with him. He is charged with being less efficient than before the war; with

incapacity, irresponsibility, and instability; with unfitness for and

dissatisfaction with his work; with demanding too much pay and requiring too

many holidays. Most of these complaints, it may be noted, are similar to those

which are heard in the North with regard to white laborers and servants.

Furthermore, many negroes, in common with the whites, are leaving the country

and flocking to the cities, often making it impossible to secure negro labor

for cotton picking or for work on the sugar plantations. Now, while the North

has no special interest in the difficulty which some sugar-grower in Louisiana

or some cotton-planter in Mississippi experiences in securing labor, it is

vitally interested in the effect which foreign immigration into the South is

having on the negro. It is perfectly clear that alien white immigrants are

displacing the negro. He is going to the Southern cities, and in increasing

numbers to the Northern cities. Italians are proving their ability and

willingness to do work at  least equal to that of the negro in the cotton

fields. They have begun to displace the negro on the sugar plantations and

truck farms of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Mexicans are found cheaper

and more easily obtainable than negroes in parts of Mississippi. Hungarians,

Slavs, and Italians are being imported form New York into the Birmingham

district of Alabama to work in the furnaces and mines instead of the negroes.

Italians, Mexicans, and Bohemians are replacing negroes in Texas, in

Mississippi, in Georgia. On plantation and truck farms; in furnaces and mines;

in factories and mills; in the occupations of city and country; even in

domestic service, the black is steadily losing ground to the alien white. The

result is twofold: there is a tendency for the negro to leave the occupations

which require greater skill and intelligence, and to take refuge in those which

require less, or the negro gives up the struggle and goes to the city,

especially in the North. It is the latter tendency which must attract the

attention of thinking men and women in the North, who, already familiar with

the conditions of negro life in the cities, cannot fail to view with anxiety

the inevitable congestion of these Southern negroes in the slums of Northern

cities. Into one city of 100,000 inhabitants in Massachusetts there came during

the past winter 750 negroes from the South. This  immigration has only just

begun; it will gain greater and greater headway as more aliens pour into the

South. What the result will be for the negro, time alone can tell, but those

who have the welfare of the negro at the heart may well ask themselves whether

the indiscriminate admission of hundreds of thousands of aliens will not

inevitably force the majority of the colored race down. This matter concerns

more persons that a few mine owners in Alabama, or a few cotton planters in

Mississippi or Louisiana. It is a national question.<p>



<p>



<p>



The Southern negro is now engaged in a life and death struggle. A Southern

editor writes: "The negro must now fight for his very existence. All along the

line the battle is on."..."The white races...are disputing the negro's

usefulness in those strongholds heretofore deemed impregnable to white attack."

It cannot be denied that there is a distinct feeling of satisfaction in the

South that the North is soon to have its share of the negro burden brought to

its own doors, and a hope that actual contact with the negro will modify some

of the sentimental ideas which have not altogether commended themselves to many

Southerners. There is also the feeling that the best thing that could happen to

the South, as well as to the colored race, would be the dispersion of the negro

by the incoming of alien whites. A Baltimore paper has recently congratulated

the South on the fact that the coming of large numbers of white immigrants will

supplant the negro, driving him North; will relieve the negro question of its

sectional aspect; and may check the negro's rate of advance. Such statements

represent some of the best Southern opinion. In spite of his shortcomings, the

larger, although the least aggressive, portion of the Southern population

prefers the negro to the alien white as tenant, laborer, or domestic servant.

This class is represented in the following communication from West Virginia:

"We wish peaceful, law-abiding citizens for the South, not with the idea of

superseding negro labor, which must remain the best labor for the South. What

we most need is to improve that labor by fair and proper education." Or again,

in an Alabama letter, as follows: "The door of opportunity is open to the negro

as long as he will enter and occupy it, but when he abandons it, and then finds

an alien foe coming in and taking his place, his mouth will be closed against

making complaint....This is a critical time for the negroes of the South, and

we feel deeply for them."<p>



<p>



In the South, as in the North, there is the capitalist, mill owner, or railroad

manager who wants "cheap labor;" who cares not whether the community or the

immigrant himself is benefited so long as dividends are increased. It is a

matter of indifference to such a man whether the labor of wife and child is

necessary in order to eke out the low wages of the husband and father, nor does

he concern himself about the increasing burdens of hospitals and almshouses

which inevitably result from the breaking down in health of the overworked men,

women, and children of the "cheap labor" class. Upon this class of employers

there is no use in urging that American character is of more importance to

preserve and develop than American wealth, and that only such immigration is

desirable as adds to the moral and intellectual welfare of the country, as well

as to its material wealth. The propaganda for the wholesale importation of

ignorant aliens into the South as a means of satisfying the present perfectly

natural demand for more labor comes from this comparatively limited number of

capitalists, and from the Southern railroads. That plans for importing

thousands of "cheap laborers" are being carried out, is clear. It remains for

the rest of the South to say how much farther these schemes shall be allowed to

go. There is also an increasing demand for Chinese and Japanese laborers in the

South, because many employers think that they would be more docile and more

servile than either the negro or the European. <p>



<p>



<p>



In the South, as in the North, there is a class of persons who are ignorant of

the conditions which have resulted from the wholesale immigration of aliens of

low standards of living and of morals, and who therefore have no opinion

regarding desirable or undesirable immigration. <p>



<p>



<p>



Thirdly in by far the largest class of all, are found the great majority of the

intelligent and patriotic citizens of the South, who say: The South does not

want the "derelicts" and the "chronic discontents" of Europe. It does not wish

to burden itself with vast expenditures for the support of pauper, criminal,

diseased, insane, and physically defective aliens. It knows of the sweat-shops

and gorged tenements of the alien colonies in the North, and would have none of

them. It realizes that a great many of our present immigrants are too poor, too

ignorant, too weak and too sickly to be fitted for a successful agricultural

life. It is opposed to the incoming of persons of such poor physique that they

cannot support themselves by a good day's work. The influential citizens who

hold such views as these are making themselves felt in the South. They are

forcing their convictions upon the railroads. At the recent Immigration

Conference at Birmingham, Alabama (June 13), they carried a resolution calling

for the exclusion of the criminal, the pauper, and the illiterate alien. They

believe that the South should think twice before it allows its capitalists and

its railroads to flood the country with "cheap" and ignorant alien laborers.

They are convinced that while such an importation might give a temporary relief

where labor is now scarce, it would bring in its wake, in the future, many vast

and complex problems which the South has not yet had to face. It would soon add

another race problem.<p>



<p>



<p>



What the South most wants to-day is not the newly arrived, ignorant, and

penniless alien, but the settler with means of purchase, preferably one who has

already resided in the United States for some years and who is familiar with

American customs, or else the immigrant with money, coming from northern

Europe, skilled in intensive and diversified farming, and who can depend on his

own exertions, manage his own business, market his own products, and save

money. As the large plantations are cut up into small farms, thrifty tenants,

not ignorant and pauper laborers are needed. The newer farms throughout the

South have been purchased very largely by farmers form the West and Northwest,

either native Americans who have sold their old farms to recent immigrants, or

foreigners who have lived in the country for a good many years--"predigested"

immigrants, as one correspondent called them. Thousands of immigrants of these

most desirable classes have recently been brought into the South from the

Western and Northwestern states, and from northern Europe, showing in a most

striking manner how easy a matter it is to secure desirable immigrants if the

effort is made. Intelligent, industrious, strong, thrifty, skilled, independent

farmers, with some money, are the classes most desired, and can look forward to

the greatest success. With the exception of the demand made by certain large

employers, already referred to, there is a distinct feeling that hordes of poor

and ignorant laborers are not desirable, and many Southern editors have

emphatically stated that the South would forego all the benefits to be gained

form first-class foreign immigration rather than have thousands o aliens who

are purely of the laboring class sent there.<p>



<p>



<p>



As Italians constitute so large a proportion of the present alien immigration

to the South it is worth while to note what Baron Gustavo Tosti, Italian Consul

at Boston, has to say regarding his own countrymen:--<p>



<p>



<p>



"There is a misleading idea in certain quarters that 'the agricultural

distribution of Italian immigrants' should be obtained simply through the

employment of a large number of Italians as farm workers and farm hands. This

would be only a palliative measure. The character of agricultural work is, by

its very nature, precarious. The Italian immigrants would thus find employment

during a few months of the year, when for instance at harvest time, there is an

enormous demand for labor....But after a comparatively short period of

occupation they would lapse into enforced idleness which would undoubtedly

drive them back to the industrial centres. The only way to get at the root of

the question is to transform a large portion of our immigrants into land-owners

or farmers." It must be remembered that to transform ignorant laborers, with

but a few dollars in their possession, into landowners, is not a matter of a

day or a year. It involves an expenditure of time and money. It is a matter of

the assimilation of the immigrant and of the elevation of his standard of

living. Thus neither the interests of those states which desire immigrants who

shall at once buy their land, nor the best interests of the Italian immigrants

themselves, as set forth by Baron Tosti, are met in a wholesale distribution of

ignorant farm laborers. Further, while about 80 per cent of our Italian

arrivals were farm laborers in Italy, they are unfamiliar with country life as

we know it, for although they worked in the fields by day, their actual

residence was in the crowded towns. Their natural tendency is city-ward.<p>



<p>



<p>



There are at present before the writer the results of a somewhat extended

private correspondence, undertaken within a few weeks, in order to ascertain

the views of representative Southerners regarding the immigration problem as it

affects the South. Letters of inquiry were sent to the Governors of all the

Southern states; to Commissioners of Agriculture, Labor, and Immigration; to

other public officials, and to prominent citizens, asking for an explicit

statement regarding the particular nationalities and the classes of immigrants

most desired in the South, as well as the views of the person address

concerning any desired changes in the United States immigration laws as a

whole. The results of this inquiry, which have not before been made public,

show an extraordinary unanimity of sentiment. Taking the replies of public

officials alone, which represent every Southern state, 100 per cent prefer

native Americans and northern Europeans who are skilled workmen with money, and

who come with their families, intending permanent settlement. Between 90 per

cent and 100 per cent of the Southern state officials protest against the

immigration of Asiatics, of illiterates, and of aliens who desire to settle in

cities; 84 per cent do not wish any immigrants from southern and eastern

Europe, and 88 per cent are opposed to receiving aliens distributed from

northern cities. As to further amendments to the general immigration laws of

the United States, the southern officials who have been heard from, in every

case but one, want the exclusion of aliens of poor physique; 92 per cent favor

a head-tax of $25 or more; nearly 90 per cent with to have "assisted"

immigrants debarred, and between 90 per cent and 100 per cent want no

illiterates. The Governor of one state in the heart of the industrial South,

who reports his state as being in great need of labor, favors the exclusion of

aliens of poor physique, and a head-tax of $25. <p>



<p>



<p>



He writes as follows:--<p>



<p>



"While we are inviting such people as we can use in our industrial districts

and farms, I, as Governor of the State, am particularly anxious to avoid a too

great influx of people whom it will be impossible to assimilate. We prefer very

greatly the northern Europeans, but could use handsomely to their profit and to

the profit of our people, some from northern Italy, say those raised on farms

and desirous of a similar life here....I am certain that we do not want and we

should insist that we do not get, people from the southern parts of Italy and

the southern and eastern parts of Europe."<p>



<p>



<p>



A correspondent in Alabama writes: "The craze for more labor is overreaching

the bounds of prudence and the good of the country."<p>



<p>



<p>



The Commissioner of Agriculture of one state says: "Our people will forego

whatever advantage might come from immigration of the better class, if this is

to be coupled with that of the slums of the cities."<p>



<p>



<p>



The Secretary of the Board of Agriculture of another state writes: "We have far

too many illiterate natives, many of them of course of the colored race, in

this state already." And so on, in letter after letter. The replies of persons

other than state officials, included in this correspondence, agree entirely

with the results above given, and it may be noted that two previous official

canvasses of the South, one made in 1896 by the Immigration Investigating

Commission and the other made in 1901-02, by the Industrial Commission, as well

as another private canvass made two years ago, led to precisely the same

conclusions. Finally, within a very few weeks, a canvass made by Manufacturers'

Record of Baltimore, among the large employers of all kinds of skilled and

partly skilled labor, other than agricultural, throughout the South, showed

very strong preferences for native and north-European workmen, and on the whole

a dissatisfaction with Italians where these have been tried.  <p>



<p>



<p>



The best interests of the South, future as well as present; the best interest

of the immigrants themselves; the best interests of the American negro; the

best judgment of representative Southern officials and of unprejudiced private

citizens,--all give the same answer to the question, What kind of immigrants

does the South want? It is clear that the south can have the best, and none but

the best, if it insists on having them. Recent experience with the incoming

settlers from the Northwestern states and from northern Europe has shown this.

It is clear, from Northern experience, that immigration of the less desirable

classes crowds out the more desirable. It is clear that the great advantages

which the South should gain in the future from the incoming of honest,

industrious, intelligent, thrifty and physically fit aliens can only be secured

by making a careful selection of these immigrants, and by preventing the

inflowing stream from becoming a vast and destructive flood. Where unskilled

labor is needed, it should be sparingly introduced, under careful supervision

by the State.<p>



<p>



<p>



The South may well take to heart the lesson which the North has been learning

regarding undesirable immigration. The North would be glad to have many of its

city slums emptied into the South, and would rejoice, selfishly, if the South

would take it full share of the incoming tide of aliens who are illiterate, who

could not pay their own passages, and who are of such poor physique that they

are unfitted to support themselves by a good day's work.<p>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1905, The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; November 1905; Immigration and the South; Volume 96, No. 

5;

page(s) 611-617

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-27</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B031-4</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/Friedmf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191203 text/html 24535
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:10:58 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:19 GMT
Content-length: 24329
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>Less Red Ink</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

	<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>



</center>





<p>



<font size=4>February 1983</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





Washington: Less Red Ink</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by Milton Friedman</font></center>

<p><br><br><p>



<p>



<blockquote><i><font size=4>An argument that the

balanced-budget amendment would be a rare merging of public and private

interests.</i></font><p>

<br>

<p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>O</font><font size=3>ur elected representatives in Congress have been voting larger expenditures

year after year--larger not only in dollars but as a fraction of the national

income. Tax revenue has been rising as well, but nothing like so rapidly. As a

result, deficits have grown and grown.<p>



<p>



<p>



At the same time, the public has demonstrated increasing resistance to higher

spending, higher taxes, and higher deficits. Every survey of public opinion

shows a large majority that believes that government is spending too much

money, and that the government budget should be balanced.<p>



<p>



<p>



How is it that a government of the majority produces results that the majority

opposes?<p>



<p>



<p>



The paradox reflects a defect in our political structure. We are ruled by a

majority--but it is a majority composed of a coalition of minorities

representing special interests. A particular minority may lose more from

programs benefiting other minorities than it gains from programs benefiting

itself. It might be willing to give up its own programs as part of a package

deal eliminating all programs--but, currently, there is no way it can express

that preference.<p>



<p>



<p>



Similarly, it is not in the interest of a legislator to vote against a

particular appropriation bill if that vote would create strong enemies while a

vote in its favor would alienate few supporters. That is why simply electing

the right people is not a solution. Each of us will be favorably inclined

toward a legislator who has voted for a bill that confers a large benefit on

us, as we perceive it. Yet who among us will oppose a legislator because he has

voted for a measure that, while requiring a large expenditure, will increase

the taxes on each of us by a few cents or a few dollars? When we are among the

few who benefit, it pays us to keep track of the vote. When we are among the

many who bear the cost, it does not pay us even to read about it.<p>



<p>



<p>



The result is a major defect in the legislative procedure whereby a budget is

enacted: each measure is considered separately, and the final budget is the sum

of the separate items, limited by no effective, overriding total. That defect

will not be remedied by Congress itself--as the failure of one attempt after

another at reforming the budget process has demonstrated. It simply is not in

the self-interest of legislators to remedy it--at least not as they have

perceived their self-interest.<p>



<p>



<p>



Dissatisfaction with ever-increasing spending and taxes first took the form of

pressure on legislators to discipline themselves. When it became clear that

they could not or would not do so, the dissatisfaction took the form of a drive

for constitutional amendments at both the state and the federal levels. The

drive captured national attention when Proposition 13, reducing property taxes,

was passed in California; it has held public attention since, scoring successes

in state after state. The constitutional route remains the only one by which

the general interest of the public can be expressed, by which package deals, as

it were, can be realized.<p>



<p>



<p>



Two national organizations have led this drive: the National Tax Limitation

Committee (NTLC), founded in 1975 as a single-issue, nonpartisan organization

to serve as a clearinghouse for information on attempts to limit taxes at a

local, state, or federal level, and to assist such attempts; and the National

Taxpayers Union (NTU), which led the drive to persuade state legislatures to

pass resolutions calling for a constitutional convention to enact an amendment

requiring the federal government to balance its budget. Thirty-one states have

already passed resolutions calling for a convention. If three more pass similar

resolutions, the Constitution requires Congress to call such a convention--a

major reason Congress has been active in producing its own amendment.<p>



<p>



<p>



The amendment that was passed by the Senate last August 4, by a vote of 69 to

31 (two more than the two thirds required for approval of a constitutional

amendment), had its origin in 1973 in a California proposition that failed at

the time but passed in 1979 in improved form (not Proposition 13). A drafting

committee organized by the NTLC produced a draft amendment applicable to the

federal government in late 1978. The NTU contributed its own version. The

Senate Judiciary Committee approved a final version on May 19, 1981, after

lengthy hearings and with the cooperation of all the major contributors to the

earlier work. In my opinion, the committee's final version was better than any

earlier draft. That version was adopted by the Senate except for the addition

of section 6, proposed by Senator William Armstrong, of Colorado, a Republican.

Approval by the Senate, like the sponsorship of the amendment, was bipartisan:

forty-seven Republicans, twenty-one Democrats, and one Independent voted for

the amendment.<p>



<p>



<p>



The House Democratic leadership tried to prevent a vote on the amendment in the

House before last November's elections. However, a discharge petition forced a

vote on it on October 1, the last full day of the regular session. The

amendment was approved by a majority (236 to 187), but not by the necessary two

thirds. Again, the majority was bipartisan: 167 Republicans, 69 Democrats. In

view of its near passage and the widespread public support for it, the

amendment is sure to be reintroduced in the current session of Congress. Hence

it remains a very live issue.<p>



<p>



The amendment as adopted by the Senate would achieve two related objectives:

first, it would increase the likelihood that the federal budget would be

brought into balance, not by prohibiting an unbalanced budget but by making it

more difficult to enact a budget calling for a deficit; second, it would check

the growth of government spending--again, not by prohibiting such growth but by

making it more difficult.<p>



<p>



<p>



The amendment is very much in the spirit of the first ten amendments--the Bill

of Rights. Their purpose was to limit the government in order to free the

people. Similarly, the purpose of the balanced-budget-and-tax-limitation

amendment is to limit the government in order to free the people--this time

from excessive taxation. Its passage would go a long way to remedy the defect

that has developed in our budgetary process. By the same token, it would make

it more difficult for supporters of ever-bigger government to attain their

goals.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is no surprise, therefore, that a torrent of criticism has been loosed

against the proposed amendment by people who believe that our problems arise

not from excessive government but from our failure to give government enough

power, enough control over us as individuals. It is no surprise that Tip

O'Neill and his fellow advocates of big government tried to prevent a vote in

the House on the amendment, and used all the pressure at their command to

prevent its receiving a two-thirds majority.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is no surprise, either, that when the amendment did come to a vote in the

House, a substantial majority voted for it. After all, in repeated opinion

polls, more than three quarters of the public have favored such an amendment.

Their representatives do not find it easy to disregard that sentiment in an

open vote--which is why Democratic leaders tried to prevent the amendment from

coming to a vote. When their hand was forced, they quickly introduced a

meaningless substitute that was overwhelmingly defeated (346 to 77) but gave

some representatives an opportunity to cast a recorded vote for a token

budget-balancing amendment while at the same time voting against the real

thing.<p>



<p>



<p>



I have been much more surprised, and dismayed, by the criticism that has been

expressed by persons who share my basic outlook about the importance of

limiting government in order to preserve and expand individual freedom--for

example, the editors of The Wall Street Journal and a former editor and current

columnist, Vermont Royster. They do not question the objectives of the

amendment, but they doubt its necessity and potential effectiveness.<p>



<p>



<p>



Those doubts are presumably shared by many other thoughtful citizens of all

shades of political opinion who are united by concern about the growth of

government spending and deficits. Here, for their consideration, are my answers

to the principal objections to the proposed amendment that I have come across,

other than those that arise from a desire to have a still-bigger government:<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>1. The amendment is unnecessary. Congress and the President have the power to

limit spending and balance the budget.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Taken seriously, this is an argument for scrapping most of the Constitution.

Congress and the President have the power to preserve freedom of the press and

of speech without the First Amendment. Does that make the First Amendment

unnecessary? Not surprisingly, I know of no one who has criticized the

balanced-budget amendment as unnecessary--however caustic his comments on

congressional hypocrisy--who would draw the conclusion that the First Amendment

should be scrapped.<p>



<p>



<p>



It is essential to look not only at the power of Congress but at the incentives

of its members--to act in such a way as to be re-elected. As Phil Gramm, a

Democratic congressman from Texas, has said: Every time you vote on every

issue, all the people who want the program are looking over your right shoulder

and nobody's looking over your left shoulder....In being fiscally responsible

under such circumstances, we're asking more of people than the Lord asks."<p>



<p>



<p>



Under present arrangements, Congress will not in fact balance the budget.

Similarly, a President will not produce a balanced budget by using the kind of

vetoes that would be required. The function of the amendment is to remedy the

defect in our legislative procedure that distorts the will of the people as it

is filtered through their representatives. The amendment process is the only

effective way the public can treat the budget as a whole. That is the function

of the First Amendment, as well--it treats free speech as a bundle. In its

absence, Congress would consider each case "on its merits." It is not hard to

envisage the way unpopular groups and views would fare.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>2. The President and Congress are guilty of hypocrisy in voting

simultaneously for a large current deficit and for a constitutional amendment

to prevent future deficits.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Of course, I have long believed that congressional hypocrisy and

shortsightedness are the only reasons there is a ghost of a chance of getting

Congress to pass an amendment limiting itself. Most members of Congress will do

anything to postpone the problems they face by a couple of years--only Wall

Street has a shorter perspective. If the hypocrisy did not exist, if Congress

behaved "responsibly," there would be no need for the amendment. Congress's

irresponsibility is the reason we need an amendment and at the same time the

reason that there is a chance of getting one.<p>



<p>



<p>



Hypocrisy may eventually lead to the passing of the amendment. But hypocrisy

will not prevent the amendment from having important effects three or four

years down the line--and from casting its shadow on events even earlier.

Congress will not violate the Constitution lightly. Members of Congress will

wriggle and squirm; they will seek, and no doubt find, subterfuges and

evasions. But their actions will be significantly affected by the existence of

the amendment. The experience of several states that have passed similar

tax-limitation amendments provides ample evidence of that.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>3. The amendment is substantive, not procedural and the Constitution should

be limited to procedural matters. The fate of the Prohibition amendment is a

cautionary tale that should give us pause in enacting substantive

amendments.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



If this amendment is substantive, so is the income-tax (sixteenth) amendment

and so are many specific provisions of the Constitution. The income-tax

amendment does not specify the rate of tax. It leaves that to Congress.

Similarly, this amendment does not specify the size of the budget. It simply

outlines a procedure for approving it: the same as now exists if total

legislated outlays do not exceed an amount determined by prior events (the

prior budget and the prior growth in national income); and by a majority of 60

percent if total legislated outlays do exceed that amount. The requirement of a

supernormal majority is neither substantive nor undemocratic nor unprecedented.

Witness the two-thirds majority necessary to override a presidential veto or to

approve a treaty.<p>



<p>



<p>



The prohibition amendment was incompatible with the basic aim of the

Constitution, because it was not directed at limiting government. On the

contrary, it limited the people and freed government to control them. The

balanced-budget-tax-limitation amendment is thoroughly compatible with the

basic role of the Constitution, because it seeks to improve the ability of the

public to limit government.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>4. The amendment is unduly rigid because it requires an annually balanced

budget.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



This is a misconception. Section 1 of the amendment prohibits a planned budget

deficit unless it is explicitly approved by three fifths of the members of the

House and Senate. It further requires the Congress and the President to "ensure

that actual outlays do not exceed the outlays set forth in [the budget]

statement." But it does not require that actual receipts equal or exceed

statement receipts. A deficit that emerged because a recession produced a

reduction in tax receipts would not be in violation of the amendment, provided

that outlays were no greater than statement outlays. This is a sensible

arrangement: outlays can be controlled more readily over short periods than

receipts.<p>



<p>



<p>



I have never been willing to support an amendment calling for an annually

balanced budget. I do support this one, because it has the necessary

flexibility.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>5. The amendment will be ineffective because (a) it requires estimates of

receipts and outlays which can be fudged; (b) its language is fuzzy; (c) the

Congress can find loopholes to evade it; (d) it contains no specific provisions

for enforcement.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



(a) It will be possible to evade the amendment by overestimating receipts--but

only once, for the first year the amendment is effective. Thereafter, section 2

of the amendment limits each year's statement receipts to the prior year's

statement receipts plus the prior rate of increase of national income. No

further estimates of budget receipts are called for. This is one of the

overlooked subtleties in the amendment.<p>



<p>



<p>



Any further fudging would have to be of the national-income estimates. That is

possible but both unlikely and not easy. What matters is not the level of

national income but the percentage change in national income. Alterations of

the definition of national income that affect levels are likely to have far

less effect on percentage changes. Moreover, making the change in income

artificially high in one year will tend to make it artificially low the next.

All in all, I do not believe that this is a serious problem.<p>



<p>



<p>



(b) The language is not fuzzy. The only undefined technical term is "national

income." The amendment also refers to "receipts" and "outlays," terms of

long-standing usage in government accounting; in section 4, total receipts and

total outlays are defined explicitly.<p>



<p>



<p>



Nor is the amendment a hastily drawn gimmick designed to provide a fig leaf to

hide Congress's sins. On the contrary, it is a sophisticated product, developed

over a period of years, that reflects the combined wisdom of the many persons

who participated in its development.<p>



<p>



<p>



(c) Loopholes are a more serious problem. One obvious loophole--off-budget

outlays--has been closed by phrasing the amendment in terms of total outlays

and defining them to include "all outlays of the United States except those for

repayment of debt principal." But other, less obvious, loopholes have not been

closed. Two are particularly worrisome: government credit guarantees, and

mandating private expenditures for public purposes (e. g., antipollution

devices on automobiles). These loopholes now exist and are now being resorted

to. I wish there were some way to close them. No doubt the amendment would

provide an incentive to make greater use of them. Yet I find it hard to believe

that they are such attractive alternatives to direct government spending that

they would render the amendment useless.<p>



<p>



<p>



(d) No constitutional provision will be enforced unless it has widespread

public support. That has certainly been demonstrated. However, if a provision

does have widespread support--as public-opinion polls have clearly shown that

this one does--legislators are not likely to flout it, which brings us back to

the loopholes.<p>



<p>



<p>



Equally important, legislators will find it in their own interest to confer an

aura of inviolability on the amendment. This point has been impressed on me by

the experience of legislators in states that have adopted amendments limiting

state spending. Prior to the amendments, they had no effective defense against

lobbyists urging spending programs--all of them, of course, for good purposes.

Now they do. They can say: Your program is an excellent one; I would like to

support it, but the total amount we can spend is fixed. To get funds for your

program, we shall have to cut elsewhere. Where should we cut?" The effect is to

force lobbyists to compete against one another rather than form a coalition

against the general taxpayer.<p>



<p>



<p>



That is the purpose of constitutional rules: to establish arrangements under

which private interest coincides with the public interest. This amendment

passes that test with flying colors.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>6. The key problem is not deficits but the size of government spending.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



My sentiments exactly. Which is why I have never supported an amendment

directed solely at a balanced budget. I have written repeatedly that while I

would prefer that the budget be balanced, I would rather have government spend

$500 billion and run a deficit of $100 billion than have it spend $800 billion

with a balanced budget. It matters greatly how the budget is balanced, whether

by cutting spending or by raising taxes.<p>



<p>



<p>



In my eyes, the chief merit of the amendment recommended by the Senate

Judiciary Committee is precisely that it does limit spending. Section 1

requires that statement outlays be no greater than statement receipts; section

2 limits the maximum increase in statement receipts; the two together

effectively limit statement outlays. Moreover, if in any year Congress manages

to keep statement receipts and outlays below the maximum level, the effect is

to lower the maximum level for future years, thus fostering a gradual

ratcheting down of spending relative to national income.<p>



<p>



<p>



A further strength of the amendment is the provision for approving an

exceptional increase in statement receipts (hence in statement outlays). The

spending-limitation amendment that was drafted by the National Tax Limitation

Committee required a two-thirds majority of both houses in order to justify an

exceptional increase in outlays. The amendment passed by the Senate requires

only "a majority of the whole number of both houses of Congress." However, the

majority must vote for an explicit tax increase. I submit that it is far easier

to get a two-thirds majority of Congress to approve an exceptional increase in

spending than to get a simple majority to approve an explicit increase in

taxes. So this is a stronger, not a weaker, amendment.<p>



<p>



<p>



Section 6 proposed by Senator Armstrong in the course of Senate debate, makes

the debt ceiling permanent and requires a supermajority vote to raise it. That

provision was approved by a narrow majority composed of a coalition of

right-wing Republicans and left-wing Democrats--the one group demonstrating its

hardcore conservatism, the other seeking to reduce the chances of adoption of

the basic amendment.<p>



<p>



<p>



I do not favor the debt-limit provision. Its objective--to strengthen pressure

on Congress to balance the budget--is fine, and it may be that it would do

little harm. But it seems to me both unnecessary and potentially harmful. I

trust that it will be eliminated if and when the amendment is finally approved

by Congress. I shall favor the amendment even if the debt-limit provision is

left in, but less enthusiastically.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>7. The amendment introduces a near economic theory into the Constitution.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



It does nothing of the kind--unless the idea that there should be some

connection between receipts and outlays is a new economic theory. The amendment

does not even change the present budget process, if Congress enacts a balanced

budget that rises by no greater a percentage than does national income. But it

does significantly stiffen the requirement for passing a budget that is in

deficit or for raising the fraction of our income spent on our behalf by the

government.<p>



<p>



<p>



The amendment recommended by the Senate Judiciary Committee deserves the

wholehearted backing of every believer in a limited government and maximum

freedom for the individual.<p></blockquote>



<hr>

<blockquote>

Milton Friedman received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1976. He is the Paul

 Snowden Russell Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Economics at the

University of Chicago and a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford

University.

</blockquote>

<hr>



<img src="../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1983 by Milton Friedman.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-28</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B040-210</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/educatio/kirpf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117194126 text/html 47024
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:41:01 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:49:33 GMT
Content-length: 46818
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

What School Choice Really Means

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>November 1992</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



What School Choice Really Means



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by David L. Kirp</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>The elementary and junior high

schools of East Harlem have been held up by many educators and politicians as

models, and as proof that allowing parents to choose their children's schools

is the key to improved performance. Many of the achievements in East Harlem are

real, the author finds, but the reasons for them are not always apparent--and

not always faced up to by educators.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>O</font>n standard-issue maps of Manhattan, Ninety-sixth Street on the Upper East Side

is shown slightly thicker than the lines representing neighboring streets, to

signify that traffic on it runs both east and west. There is no hint of a

border on these maps, no intimation that Ninety-sixth Street marks a division

between two dramatically different worlds.<p>



<p>



South of Ninety-sixth Street lie some of New York City's most fashionable

addresses. The continuing collapse of the city's economy has touched even these

streets, of course, and now there are empty stores, unsellable condominiums.

But nannies still push strollers along Fifth Avenue and in Central Park, and

adolescents still stream forth from private schools. Lawyers and investment

bankers still look as if they had stepped straight out of the display windows

at Talbot's or Brooks Brothers. Almost the only nonwhite faces to be seen

belong to the help. To the north of Ninety-sixth Street lies East Harlem. On

its two hundred square blocks many of the brownstones are empty, boarded up,

covered with barbed wire and jagged bits of glass to keep out the vagrants and

drug addicts. Half of East Harlem's population of 120,000 is Hispanic, and

almost all the rest is African-American. New arrivals come mostly from

dirt-poor Caribbean and Central American countries. By all the standard social

measures, East Harlem is among the worst-off neighborhoods in the city.<p>



<p>



Yet every school-day morning brings a remarkable sight, as a thousand or so

children from elsewhere in the city, many of them from families that could

easily afford private academies, negotiate the buses and subways with practiced

cool to join the 14,000 Hispanic and black children who attend East Harlem's

elementary and junior high schools. These students come to East Harlem not

because some official issued an integration order or redrew a school-district

boundary but because their families have chosen to send them here. Remarkably,

in some of the battered school buildings of this neighborhood, where these

children attend classes with the children of the barrio, an exemplary education

can be had. East Harlem's schools have, in fact, become famous, at least among

educators, for their quality--relative to that of other inner-city schools,

anyway--and the story of the transformation of these schools has by now

acquired the status of an oft-told legend.<p>



<p>



In 1970, when each of New York City's elementary and junior high schools was

assigned to one of thirty-two community school districts, with powerful elected

school boards that had the right to pick the local superintendent, East

Harlem's schools, which make up District Four, were widely regarded as the

city's worst. In 1974 the children scored thirty-second--dead last--on

standardized reading tests. Absenteeism was chronic among teachers as well as

students. Gangs had turned junior high corridors into battlegrounds, school

bathrooms into drug bazaars. And yet scarcely a decade later this prototypical

blackboard jungle had come to be hailed as something of a model for urban

education. The most widely cited measure of its accomplishment is the reported

improvement in reading achievement: by the mid-1980s East Harlem's scores had

risen from the very worst citywide to a level approximating the citywide

average.<p>



<p>



Behind this change, East Harlem's boosters say, lies the simple but

revolutionary fact that parents in East Harlem are now allowed to choose their

children's schools--thereby introducing the salutary effects of competition

into institutions dispirited by inertia, red tape, and the chaos of the

surrounding community. These changes are not unique to East Harlem. Across the

country, public school choice has been one of the most widely adopted reforms

of the past decade, and enthusiasts for one or another version of school choice

span the political spectrum. But what does make East Harlem special, and so

worth paying attention to, is that it came first--and that New York has just

decided to make a school-choice program citywide. In District Four choice has

been sustained as a guiding philosophy for nearly two decades--a geological

epoch in the faddish world of education policy. Moreover, the system of choice

has been implemented in a city where the difficulties of making ANYTHING happen

are well known, and in a neighborhood characterized by deep social pathology.

And it is undeniable that much of the education in East Harlem is better than

what was available twenty years ago. But did choice make the difference? And

how much difference has actually been made?<p>



<p>



These are important questions, the answers to which have implications for

schools around the country--because even as legions of defenders hold up East

Harlem as a national model, critics assail some of what has happened there as a

triumph of public relations. Yes, they say, many East Harlem mini-schools may

get a silk-stocking trade, and may offer instruction that is as good as in the

better private schools, but just a few corridors away are classrooms with no

middle-class students and all the familiar woes of inner-city education. And,

they say, the way the system labeled "choice" works in practice makes such

disparities inevitable.<p>



<p>



<p>



THE REVOLUTION BEGINS<p>



<p>



During the mid-1950s novelist Dan Wakefield, then a young reporter, lived in

Spanish Harlem for six months and delivered a savage indictment of official

neglect, especially in the public schools. "[The schools] have been of little

help to the children of Spanish Harlem in escaping the realities of its

streets, or...changing those realities to something like the promise of the

posters that smile from the classrooms," Wakefield wrote in Island in the City.

"The schools, in fact, have blocked out the possibilities of the world beyond

even more profoundly than the tenement buildings around them." The situation

only deteriorated in 1968, when black and radical white parents and teachers

throughout the city fought the teachers' union and the education bureaucracy

for greater local control over schools. They got it in 1970, after several

bitter teachers' strikes, but the aftermath brought infighting of every kind

among the board members of the thirty-two newly created school districts.<p>



<p>



Things began to improve in District Four in 1973, when an insurgent slate was

elected to the school board. Robert Rodriguez, an East Harlem native who headed

the slate and directed the East Harlem Neighborhood Manpower Service Center,

was only twenty-one at the time. The new board chairman was committed to

running a clean enterprise, in which educational priorities didn't get confused

with personal agendas and board members didn't push pet programs or hand out

patronage jobs to friends. Keeping fellow board members and local leaders from

meddling in the details of personnel and programs didn't prove easy, however,

and tensions ran so high that police officers were sometimes present at board

meetings to assure order.<p>



<p>



When Rodriguez came to power, the district superintendent was seen by many in

the community as symbolizing the old, unresponsive regime. The superintendent

was quickly forced out, and the board chose as his successor Anthony Alvarado,

a charismatic thirty-year-old Puerto Rican from East Harlem. His fast-track

career had taken him from Fordham University to half a dozen jobs in education,

including running an experimental preschool and heading up a bilingual

elementary school.<p>



<p>



As the District Four superintendent, Alvarado brought in new black and Hispanic

principals--a good idea in itself, and certainly also a way of fending off

potential local critics. He also pushed an agenda that included alternative

schools, bilingual schools (which now enroll 2,000 of the district's students),

a district-wide reading program, and major infusions of federal and state

dollars.<p>



<p>



The alternative schools have gotten the most attention, yet they began almost

accidentally. In 1974 Alvarado approached Deborah Meier, a longtime teacher on

Manhattan's Upper West Side and a pedagogical reformer committed to bringing

open classrooms to city schools, and asked if she would be interested in

running her own elementary school. Meier jumped at the chance. In the school

she had in mind, classrooms would have places to build things, quiet spaces for

reading, and corners for painting. Teachers would move around, offering

individual help. Classes would be small by city standards, and teachers would

come to know their students well, because they would spend two years with the

same children. The new school would depend for its survival on parents'

willingness to accept the risks of an unfamiliar kind of education for their

children, and also on teachers' willingness to surrender their lunch hours to

students and their after-school hours to meetings that ran as long as in

socialist heaven. The school had to start small, Meier argued, one grade at a

time, with no set curriculum--"If the teacher cared a lot [about a topic] and

the kids cared a lot, that was a good topic"--and no guaranteed results.<p>



<p>



Although classes like this have been routine for half a century in the best

progressive private academies, the school Meier and Alvarado proposed to create

was a deviant institution in New York City public schools, where teachers

typically stood at the front of the classroom talking at rows of nodding heads

and covering a prescribed curriculum. Central Park East, as Meier's elementary

school was called, started out in the fall of 1974 on two floors of P.S. 171, a

run-down elementary school with which it would be competing for students and

resources. Many of the Puerto Rican parents living in the neighborhood, whose

memories of their own education led them to equate quality with order, were

suspicious of a white Jewish woman and her permissive ideas. Some community

activists wanted a school rooted more in the language and struggles of the

barrio than in the theories of John Dewey and Jean Piaget. But the school

attracted students, and after a troubled first few years its reputation as a

good place to learn began to spread. Soon there were more applicants than

spaces, with many of the applications coming from outside East Harlem.<p>



<p>



The same year that Central Park East opened its doors, two other alternative

schools opened, to serve grades five through nine: the East Harlem Performing

Arts School and the BETA ("better education through alternatives") School,

which took rejects from other schools, where they had made teachers' lives hell

(the BETA School would close in 1990).<p>



<p>



In 1976 Alvarado hired Seymour Fliegel, who had been a teacher and

administrator in Harlem for two decades, to oversee the existing alternative

schools and help create many new ones. By 1982 two new primary schools, Central

Park East II and River East, were launched to meet a rising demand for open

classrooms. Though they began as spinoffs of Central Park East, and took

students from a common pool of applicants, the new academies gradually

developed their own identities. From the outset, places in these schools were

much sought-after, and soon educators with other dreams appeared at Fliegel's

doorstep. Alan Sofferman, who had taught fifth and sixth grades at P.S. 96, and

who eventually became its assistant principal, imagined a School of Science and

Humanities, as tradition-oriented as any parochial school. Students would wear

uniforms, and silence would be observed as orderly ranks of pupils passed by

one another in the corridors. Leonard Bernstein, a science teacher, designed

the Isaac Newton School with the intention of exposing the brightest youngsters

from the ghetto to state-of-the-art instruction in science and math. Beryl

Epton, who had taught at the BETA School, wanted a chance to work with younger

children who had troubled histories. She started the Children's Workshop, the

smallest of East Harlem's alternative schools, a one-room

second-through-fourth-grade class for children who had been or were likely to

be held back because of behavioral problems. New schools opened almost every

year, each one trying to find its special niche. Their names reveal the range

of aspirations: the Academy of Environmental Science, the Maritime School, the

East Harlem Career Academy, the Talented and Gifted School.<p>



<p>



While every other district in the city was pleading poverty, East Harlem

usually found the money to do what it wanted. For one thing, its administrators

came to realize that because the notion of choice pushed the right buttons at

Ronald Reagan's Department of Education, Washington after 1980 would be

forthcoming with cash. At one point during the 1980s District Four received

more federal money per student than any other school district in the country.

The Republicans from Washington and the liberal Democrats from Spanish Harlem

have made strange bedfellows, and there are those who say that the district was

manipulated. Yet in the cutthroat world of New York City school politics,

Washington's support bought East Harlem a measure of protection.<p>



<p>



District Four was also prepared to fend for itself. For years it engaged

heavily in the risky business of deficit financing, and it outmaneuvered the

dozing downtown bureaucrats. The alternative schools, with their tiny staffs,

could not live with the seniority system that reigned in every other city

district. So the principals (called directors) of the alternative schools

recruited teachers mainly by word of mouth, and turned to Fliegel to slip the

new teachers onto the payroll regardless of seniority.<p>



<p>



The teachers' unions initially protested about all the rules East Harlem was

breaking. But they backed off when they saw members volunteering to swap

protections won through collective bargaining for the rewards of

professionalism. (Today the New York City teachers' contract specifies that

with a three-quarters-majority vote the teachers at any school can waive rules

about class size and teachers' schedules.)<p>



<p>



"I could say, 'We had a long-range plan: we envisioned a choice program ten

years down the line,'" Fliegel says. "But things don't work that way. It

developed organically." Slowly, if haphazardly, with a sizable dose of what

Fliegel calls "creative noncompliance" with the rules, an alternative system

parallel to the regular schools emerged, with a handful of alternative

elementary schools and a somewhat larger number of junior highs--twenty-two

alternative schools in all by 1982, offering a wide range of options. By then

there were enough options to enable every sixth-grade student in East Harlem to

have at least SOME choice, although competition for places at the most popular

schools was sufficiently intense that the schools, not the parents and

students, ended up doing most of the picking. Still, by 1982 half of East

Harlem's junior high students were attending one of the alternative schools,

and by that year East Harlem had moved from thirty-second to fifteenth in the

city in reading scores. District Four began getting national attention.<p>



<p>



<p>



THE NUMBERS GAME<p>



<p>



East Harlem officials focus on District Four's dramatically improved test

scores when trumpeting their success. In 1974, they note, only 15.3 percent of

the district's students could read at or above grade level; by 1988 the

proportion had quadrupled, to 62.5 percent.<p>



<p>



This fact is always seized on by those who would commend the East Harlem

experience to other school systems. Yet those statistics, while technically

correct, are somewhat misleading, and a close look at them begins to reveal

some other realities of the East Harlem experience. The biggest improvements in

reading scores occurred in 1975 (13 percentage points), when the choice program

was just getting started, and in 1986 (9.5 percentage points), when New York

City switched to a different test. In those two years reading levels improved

substantially all across the city.<p>



<p>



Moreover, in 1988 the city was using a test whose norms--the criteria for what

should be expected by way of performance--had been set a decade earlier. But in

the interim there had been a marked increase in basic-skills levels, and so the

norms were out-of-date. It's as if a high-jump bar had remained at a certain

height even as the jumpers had grown taller. After new national norms were

established, in 1989, the proportion of youngsters performing at grade level

dropped to 42 percent in East Harlem (as against 48 percent citywide). This

doesn't mean that things weren't getting better in East Harlem, but it does

mean that the statistical gain is not as fantastically large as is commonly

claimed. Nor have matters changed much since then. Last year 43 percent of

students in East Harlem (as compared with 49 percent of students citywide) were

doing grade-level work.<p>



<p>



Comparisons with other districts do show that from 1978, when norms were

previously established, to 1989 District Four's reading scores rose by 14.2

percent, as compared with 2.3 percent for the city as a whole. That was the

second-biggest improvement recorded in all of the city's districts. (The

biggest improvement, 14.5 percent, occurred in Bedford-Stuyvesant, a Brooklyn

district that is 98 percent black and Hispanic, whose school system combines

choice at the junior high level with a strong emphasis on scholastic drills and

testing.) Performance on the mathematics test has been far weaker. Since 1986,

when the current citywide test for mathematics was adopted, District Four has

fallen from twentieth to twenty-seventh place.<p>



<p>



It is hard to know how much of the improvement in reading scores to attribute

to choice. For one thing, much of the gain has been recorded in neighborhood

elementary schools, where choice has not been as widely available as in the

junior highs. For another, the district-wide data conceal variations as great

as can be found among public schools anywhere in America. In 1991 at least 75

percent of the students at the most elite East Harlem schools, including the

Talented and Gifted School (TAG) for elementary students and Manhattan East and

Isaac Newton for junior high students, scored at or above grade level. At

Central Park East Secondary School, with a more diverse student body, more than

half of the junior high school students read at grade level. Until recently

these schools received special funding from the federal magnet-schools program,

and they have attracted most of the students who come from outside East Harlem.

TAG, for example, is 40 percent white.<p>



<p>



The question of who is attending which East Harlem schools goes to the heart of

the system of choice. In its publicity brochures District Four describes its

schools as "Schools That Dare to Compete," but the fact is that in many cases

it is not the schools but the students that are competing--competing for the

schools. A mother visiting New York Prep while I was there was eager to

persuade its director at the time, Brian Spears, that her daughter, who was

shyly tagging along, should be admitted.<p>



<p>



"Why do you want to send your daughter here?" Spears asked.<p>



<p>



"You've got computers and a good reading program," the mother said. "It's a

safe school. I've got a younger daughter downstairs in the elementary school,

and the principal there says it's good."<p>



<p>



"There are two hundred and fifty applicants for seventy places," Spears

replied, and then added, "The fact that you've come down, shown an interest,

that's very important."<p>



<p>



Sometimes parents treat the selection process as casually as if they were

selecting a brand of cereal. Other parents--ones considering elementary schools

in particular--base their decisions on factors like proximity and the safety of

the neighborhood, which are important but only indirectly related to the

quality of the education their children will receive. And for the many

youngsters who are characterized by district officials as "at risk"--including

children with young mothers strung out on crack, children who have worn thin

the patience of their grandmothers, children living in group homes or on the

streets--there is no responsible adult to make a choice.<p>



<p>



Choice is a tool wielded less decisively by parents than by the school

directors, the most adept of whom, like Spears, seek out students they think

will succeed in their schools. Five alternative junior highs recruit many of

their best students from elementary schools located in the same building that

they themselves occupy. Until the past few years others ran their own

early-admissions programs, effectively picking students before most parents had

a chance to apply. It is largely because of this hidden selection

process--which screens both for levels of skill and for traits of

character--that some very good schools have been created in East Harlem.<p>



<p>



A hierarchy has emerged, reflecting the extent to which schools can be

selective. At the top are the so-called elite schools, which the ablest East

Harlem children and most of the youngsters from outside neighborhoods attend.

The highly selective sixth-through-eighth-grade school Manhattan East, which

offers what it calls "a rigorous classical academic program," attracts as many

as eighty of its 215 students from the world outside District Four; this

integration would be less likely to occur if the school had less say over who

gets in from the world inside District Four. The junior high school New York

Prep, in the middle of the academic pecking order but with four applicants for

every place, can also fill up with good children and reject all likely

troublemakers. At the bottom of the heap are schools that virtually none of

each year's 1,400 prospective seventh-graders in District Four would choose.

These get the hundreds of children who are left over after the more successful

schools have made their picks.<p>



<p>



In theory, unsuccessful schools in a competitive system would be shut down and

replaced with more-popular alternatives. That can be hard to arrange, though,

when one reason that a school is unsuccessful is that it has been saddled with

the least-promising and most-disruptive students--a change of name, director,

and educational philosophy can accomplish only so much. It's also hard to

arrange in the real world, where a teachers'-union contract guarantees job

security and where many among the poor are possessive even of terrible schools,

because these happen to be their schools. In nearly two decades only three

alternative schools have been shut down in East Harlem. For all these reasons,

a substantial proportion of elementary and junior high students wind up in

schools that remain largely unaffected by the improvements in District Four.<p>



<p>



<p>



AN EAST HARLEM SAMPLER<p>



<p>



Diversity is just an abstraction until you walk into the East 109th Street

building that a decade ago was a conventional junior high for 1,300 students.

At that time it was a school with a reputation for student violence and

dead-end teaching. Now the building houses four alternative elementary and

junior high schools: the Harbor Performing Arts School, the Talented and Gifted

School, the East Harlem Career Academy, and the Key School. Pedagogically these

places are worlds apart, though they are separated physically by no more than a

staircase or a fire door.<p>



<p>



A visitor must sign in at a guard's desk before entering--a reminder that

trouble is always possible from the crack dealers or the bullying high

schoolers who hang around. When I visited the building, the guard was a young

woman from the neighborhood, a recent high school graduate who returned to a

book of word puzzles when no visitors were in sight. She carried no weapon and

would have scared no one, but she offered at least the illusion of

protection.<p>



<p>



The Talented and Gifted School's name is no mere euphemism. Introspective TAG

students take a battery of intelligence and psychological tests, and submit to

interviews. The school rejects six children for every one it accepts. In one

classroom I saw, pre-kindergartners age four were already beginning to write. A

first-grade classroom was filled with stuffed dolls, likenesses of themselves

that the children had crafted. "I'm Leslie," the writing on one doll

proclaimed. "My puppy sleeps in my bed." "I'm Jenna," said the words on

another. "I went to Florida." There was an "Artists' Touch" corner and an "Our

Pets" corner. On the wall were cartoon figures demonstrating "angry," "afraid,"

and "frustrated." I asked the teacher's aide whether "frustrated" wasn't too

sophisticated a concept for these six-year-olds, but she assured me that they

get it. One of the kids volunteered, "It's the feeling I have when I can't do

what I want."<p>



<p>



Two floors away, at the Harbor Performing Arts School, with 210 seventh-

through ninth-graders, a dance teacher led a dozen girls through a routine. The

girls stood poised at the bar. "First position and stop and step back and step

forward--don't use your arm, use your entire body...first position three, down

on four...Please stop fidgeting. Don't give me third, Ebony--we're in fifth." A

sign hanging in the room read, IF YOU'RE NOT WORKING ON YOURSELF, YOU'RE NOT

WORKING, and intensity was sketched on the girls' straining faces. From down

the hall came the sounds of a choir practicing a medley of songs. In a month

the Harbor School's singers and dancers would begin rehearsing their major

school production, a Broadway musical. The director at the time, Leslie Moore,

told me that these classes build self-esteem. "If teenagers who are having

trouble in math or English can succeed in singing or dancing," she said, "with

all the discipline that that demands, they don't walk away defeated; they'll

stay in school, maybe catch on to academic work. There's also some direct

carry-over, since students in music or drama have to make sense of words."<p>



<p>



Four hundred students apply for the seventy openings in the seventh grade at

Harbor. Some will go on to La Guardia High School of Music and Art and

Performing Arts--in 1990 ten of the twelve who applied there were admitted--and

more will attend prep schools or the city's selective high schools. A handful

of alumni are celebrated, among them Amani A. W.-Murray, who has released a

saxophone album to bravo reviews, and Carlos Guity, a boy from the slums of the

southeast Bronx who became an acrobat with the Big Apple Circus.<p>



<p>



A typical junior high teacher with 150 students to teach over five periods

can't be expected to remember all the students' names, let alone know very much

about them. The intimate scale of some of the East Harlem junior high schools

invites teachers to invest themselves, much like coaches, in their students'

futures. On my initial visit to New York Prep, which occupies the fifth floor

of an old elementary school, a boy whom I will call Jaime Morelia, home on

vacation after his first term at a Connecticut prep school, came in to check up

on his fonder teachers and see his friends. Jaime's natural ease made him seem

more like a college freshman than a fifteen-year-old. He appeared to have made

the transition from Harlem to an elite private academy without difficulty. His

grades were decent and his confidence was intact. "It's different there," he

said. "The work isn't so easy. And it's quiet. I'm used to noise. But we had

good preparation for it, and the school is small enough so you can become close

to everybody."<p>



<p>



Christina Giammalva, who until recently divided her time between teaching

history at New York Prep and placing her students at prep schools, believed

that Jaime would make it at prep school. Although there were students with

stronger academic records and better test scores, Jaime was clear-headed, a

survivor. When his father disappeared from the family picture, Jaime, then

thirteen, became the man of the house. All during his time at New York Prep he

had to juggle the heavy and sometimes conflicting demands of home and school.<p>



<p>



In terms of overall reading scores, New York Prep isn't impressive: in 1991

only 35 percent of the students there were reading at or above grade level. But

typically eight or nine of the seventy ninth-graders at New York Prep, many of

whom have lived lives at least as hard as Jaime's, will go on to private

schools. Student programs involving Scarsdale High and Princeton University,

and field trips to places like Boston and Washington, D.C., show New York

Prep's students something of the world beyond the ghetto. One or two afternoons

after school every week, 120 of the 210 students spend nearly an hour getting

to Columbia University, where they are tutored by law-school and

business-school students. Those accepted by private schools take an intensive

summer course to hone their academic skills and prepare them psychologically

for what's ahead. Almost all will go on to college. Don't pay too much

attention to the test scores, the teachers at New York Prep write in their

recommendation letters, because we know this student. We won't hide the

weaknesses, but we will tell you why they're manageable. In ordinary junior

highs in inner cities this degree of involvement in the lives of students is

largely unheard of.<p>



<p>



The teachers' predictions cannot be infallible, of course, because few among us

live perfectly mapped-out and predictable lives. Certainly not most

fifteen-year-olds--they believe in their own immortality, and their eyes are on

many prizes all at once.<p>



<p>



We know how treacherous the passage from ghetto to private school can be from

stories like that of Edmund Perry, whose journey from Harlem to Phillips Exeter

Academy ended in robbery and death. Jaime's story is not so tragic, only

shadowed and human. During his first year at prep school he was caught

cheating--in Spanish, of all subjects--and placed on probation. This past

spring, at the end of his junior year, he used a teacher's telephone calling

card to phone his mother and his friends in East Harlem. He was found out--how

could it have been otherwise?--and expelled. Now he is enrolled in a New York

City public high school.<p>



<p>



What Jaime Morelia did was plainly wrong, and his moral compass was calibrated

finely enough for him to know that. The deeper puzzle is why he behaved as he

did. Christina Giammalva speculates that for Jaime the psychological distance

may have been too great, the demands to conform to prep-school mores too

imposing. Perhaps, Giammalva says, he made those phone calls to invite

rejection, rather than be forced to do the rejecting.<p>



<p>



Jaime's failure cannot be chalked up entirely to adolescent acting-out, because

the school's insensitivity is pertinent too. When Jaime first got into trouble,

his prep-school mentors never called his mother to enlist her support, and the

first she heard of her son's expulsion was after the fact. Nor is the school's

attitude unusual--and this makes the success stories even more special. Another

graduate of New York Prep, a boy I'll call Jamail Robinson, was almost kept

from returning to a private school where he had spent two years because his

mother, a security guard raising two children, owed the school $1,000. School

officials were ready to bounce Jamail without even talking to his mother; it

took several anxious phone calls from Giammalva to get him reinstated. This

past June, when Jamail graduated from a private school (one of half a dozen or

so New York Prep alumni to do so) he was picked by both the faculty and the

students as the senior who best embodied their school's ideals.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



The key school which occupies the basement of the same building that houses the

Talented and Gifted School and the Harbor School for the Performing Arts, is a

school that reflects the underside of reform in East Harlem. None of the Key

School's 120 seventh- through ninth-graders chose to be there. The places in

this school are filled by youngsters who can't make it elsewhere, and

enrollment at Key keeps climbing. Desperate administrators of other alternative

schools plead with its director, Iris Novak, to take one more hard-to-handle

adolescent, one more kid that nobody else wants. The last arrival had stolen

$600 collected for a school dinner from a teacher's handbag at his old school.

Since the BETA School closed, there are almost no other schools in the district

for problem students. Those who can't make it here may be sent to

special-education classes for the emotionally disabled, where about one East

Harlem child in fifteen winds up.<p>



<p>



The Key School is a dark place, out of sight, with none of the amenities of the

more elite schools. Its ceilings vibrate whenever students from the Harbor

School are playing basketball or practicing their ballet movements in the gym

upstairs. Its name could be a metaphor for opening up new opportunities or,

perhaps more fittingly, for locking a jail cell.<p>



<p>



As I talked with Novak, students came and went, pleading for the key to the

bathroom, a privilege granted at the absolute discretion of the director. It's

an emergency, each of them insisted. A burly ninth-grader stormed in, demanding

the return of his hat, which Novak had confiscated earlier in the day. "Gimme

back my fuckin' hat," he screamed at Novak. "You think I'm a nice kid but I'm

not. I'm mean." Novak wrote it all down, and then silenced the kid with a look

and a rumbling voice that comes from having trained for the stage. "I'm not

your mother or sister or girlfriend or grandmother. I'm the director of this

school. I demand to be treated with respect. There will be no 'fuck, fuck'

here. You are suspended " The day before, after one student had held up another

at gunpoint on the sidewalk, security guards were called in; they put the

suspect up against the wall and frisked him.<p>



<p>



Only nine percent of the students at the Key School are reading at grade level.

This isn't surprising, given the composition of the school. Even among East

Harlem schools that are not designated as repositories for problem children,

more than a few have only one youngster in five--if that--making the grade, and

have experienced a decline in performance levels during the past decade. The

worst of these schools was Music 13, which until June of 1990 (when it was shut

down) coped with seventh- through ninth-graders.<p>



<p>



"If you're interested in music, a strong academic background, and high

standards," the brochure given to parents bravely announced, "Music 13 is the

place to be." The name of Music 13 was intended to reveal its special focus,

and there was an able music teacher, Luis Rosa, on the premises. But nobody

really chose to attend Music 13, and by the end few at the school cared much

about music anymore. The "13" in its name turned out to be more significant

than the "Music."<p>



<p>



The building that housed it was formerly Junior High School 13, and when two of

Deborah Meier's schools were moved there in 1985, some neighborhood parents

rebelled. We want to keep our own school, they insisted--even though the junior

high had been such a misery that most parents had stopped sending their

children there years before. A number of teachers also wanted to stay on, and a

grandfather clause in the union contract entitled them to do so. Some of the

half dozen who remained--"the grandfathers"--epitomized much of what has gone

wrong with many big-city schools. During my visit to the school one teacher

read The New York Times while students chattered, another shouted desperately

for order, and a third delivered a by-the-book lesson to a class of

uninterested ninth-graders. Often the teachers didn't bother to show up, or

else let the director know a day ahead of time that they felt "a sickness

coming on." Music 13 had become a school in name but not intention, a place of

last resort.<p>



<p>



Students like an eighth-grader I'll call Kevin Jones were stuck. "Kevin is

intelligent and articulate, with a real talent for science and basketball," Ira

Lyons, the third director Music 13 had had in five years, told me. "He has more

brains than I do." Kevin first attended Isaac Newton, but was kicked out after

being accused of smashing the headlights of the director's car. He has had

fights with other students at Music 13. Family conferences came to nothing when

the boy's elderly and deeply religious grandmother insisted that he was no

trouble at home. "High-ability kickouts don't mesh with low-ability kids,"

Lyons said. "He belongs in a school that would challenge him." But no other

school was interested.<p>



<p>



Every urban school district has its Kevin Joneses, and they're probably no

worse off at a place like Music 13 than at some run-down junior high in the

Bronx. That reality points to the expedient bargain that has in effect been

struck in East Harlem among those who have worked for reform. The deal is

essentially this: Through the mechanism called choice--a mechanism that gives

some options to parents and students but at the same time is rigged to give

even more options to school directors--we can greatly improve the situation for

about a third of our students, offering them a far better education than they

could otherwise have had in one of the most battered neighborhoods in America.

Perhaps we can even offer something useful to another third of our students.

But the bottom third will be virtually abandoned--as they would have been

anyway.<p>



<p>



<p>



SCHOOL BY SCHOOL BY SCHOOL<p>



<p>



Confronted with crumbling buildings and daily episodes of violence, with

splintered families and refractory bureaucrats--problems that elsewhere might

in themselves suck up all the energy of school leaders--East Harlem has

transformed a number of its schools. Elsewhere, initiatives are frequently

abandoned when their champions leave, but the alternative schools in East

Harlem have survived the departure of Alvarado and Fliegel, the entrepreneurs

who launched the plan. They have survived a procession of chancellors at 110

Livingston Street, most of whom have been cool to what the district is doing.

They weathered a 1988 financial scandal that brought down Alvarado's successor,

cast suspicion on Fliegel's successor as director of alternative schools (who

was later exonerated), and for a while left East Harlem's schools in the hands

of an acting superintendent who made no secret of her dislike for the

alternative-schools program. Whether any further progress is possible in

District Four--and whether other New York City districts will be able to

proceed with plans for similar restructuring--depends on the impact of the

continuing fiscal crisis in the New York City schools.<p>



<p>



East Harlem, with all its problems, has built a far better school system than I

have seen in any comparable neighborhood. For all the hype about reading-test

scores, what's more impressive is the students' generally clearer writing and

focused thinking, their greater self-confidence and understanding, and their

willingness and ability to enter the world beyond the ghetto in high school and

afterward. Graduates from junior highs in East Harlem ARE making it out of the

barrio. In the intensely competitive environment of New York City's elite high

schools, sorting is nearly as rigid as it was under the old British eleven-plus

exam system. The four examination schools--Bronx High School of Science,

Stuyvesant High, La Guardia High School, and Brooklyn Technical High

School--are among the very best high schools in the nation. Another handful,

including Aviation High and East Harlem's Manhattan Center for Science and

Mathematics, enroll the next tier of students. The nonselective schools get the

leftovers. In the mid-1970s fewer than ten of East Harlem's junior high

graduates were accepted by the examination high schools. By 1987 things had

radically changed. East Harlem sent 139 youngsters, or ten percent of the

district's graduating class that year, to those elite high schools--double the

citywide average. An additional 13 percent enrolled at four other high schools

that also screen their students--a rate four times as high as the city average.

That same year at least thirty-six students from East Harlem received

scholarships to private schools, including some of the best ones in the

country.<p>



<p>



Some of the students who travel to East Harlem from other parts of the city

volunteered to me that for the first time in their lives they are being treated

with respect by teachers. Teachers reported that the smallness and autonomy of

the alternative schools enable them to identify a distinctive voice in each of

their children and to respond in kind. In the corridors and directors' offices

where teachers congregate, the talk is mainly about what works in the classroom

and what doesn't, not about Macy's sales and last night's Knicks game. Not all

the schools are as innovative as those that Deborah Meier founded, for there

are, after all, only a handful of such educators. But as the history of good

urban parochial schools suggests, educational innovation isn't essential to

success. What is essential is that the school take the time to shape an

identity that seems right to those who inhabit the premises, and that this

effort be sustained by teachers and administrators who have a measure of

independence, a feeling of being driven, and a capacity to know each of their

charges. If the idea of intimate enclaves in factory-like city schools is going

to take hold, it must happen not by treating East Harlem as a model to be

mechanically applied, and certainly not by taking literally the misleading

metaphor of the schools as a marketplace. Instead, it must happen as an

approach adapted to the particularities of place.<p>



<p>



Schools like those in East Harlem are being asked to accomplish the

impossible--to challenge the highly achieving and rescue those who otherwise

would drop out, to ease racial separation and reduce inequity in schooling, and

all the while to function as the cutting edge of educational innovation. In

truth, there are no easy paths even to modest progress. What's needed can be as

time-consuming and undramatic as meticulous planning, into-the-wee-hours

sessions with anxious school-board members, months of meetings with teachers

and school directors to give content to the dreams, and then endless

reassurances to parents troubled by what is new and untried. And even then, as

District Four shows, there may well remain a large portion of the student

population for whom reform might just as well never have occurred.<p>



<p>



It is essential to risk the mistakes that so often accompany newness and to

resist overpromising. Each school will have to find its own way, because

everywhere the talents and the possibilities are different, but out of the

process something of real value can emerge. This much, at least, East Harlem

has to teach the rest of America, as the nation quietly but unmistakably

embarks on the great experiment of remaking its schools, one by one.

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1992, David L. Kirp.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; November 1992; What School Choice Really Means; Volume 

270, No. 5;

page(s) 119-132

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-29</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B042-182</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/family/raising.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117195329 text/html 57354
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:52:38 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:51:31 GMT
Content-length: 57148
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Raising Kids
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>October 1983</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Raising Kids

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by James Q. Wilson</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>Psychologists are helping parents to control bratty behavior by teaching 
them how and when to use rewards and punishments.</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>"W</font>hen I met him, he was six and a half years of age. There was nothing 
about his appearance that identified him as the boy who had set the 
record." The words are those of Gerald R. Patterson, a family therapist at 
the Oregon Social Learning Center, in Eugene. The "record" to which he 
referred was the frequency--measured with painstaking care by the Learning 
Center's staff--with which Don, a small boy, displayed rotten behavior. 
Nearly four times a minute while in his home, Don would whine, yell, 
disobey, hit, or shove. When he was not at home, telephone calls from 
teachers and merchants would mark his progress through the neighborhood: 
"He left school two hours early, stole candy from a store, and 
appropriated a toy from a neighborhood child."<P>
Don had "a sleazy look about him," Patterson wrote, "like a postcard 
carried too long in a hip pocket." His violent outbursts were frightening; 
any simple request or minor provocation would trigger obscene shouts, 
attacks on other children, or assaults on the furniture. His mother was 
tired, depressed, and nearly desperate as a result of coping unaided with 
this monster--no babysitter would take on the job of minding Don, whatever 
the pay. She nevertheless persevered, changing his wet sheets, bathing and 
dressing him, even feeding him, all the while talking to him in tones that 
vacillated between cajolery and scolding, murmurs and shouts. When her 
seemingly bottomless patience was at last at an end, she would threaten or 
hit him with a stick. That produced only temporary compliance. When the 
father was home, things were not much different. The shouting and fighting 
between Don and his younger brother continued, occasionally punctuated by 
the father slapping both children.<P>
Children like Don are the youthful precursors not only of difficult 
teenagers but sometimes of delinquents and adult criminals. The 
progression from violent, dishonest youngster to violent, dishonest 
teenager is not automatic, but it is common. Though child psychologists 
disagree about the extent to which personality in general is shaped by 
early childhood experiences, there is not much dispute over the fact that 
male aggressiveness tends to be stable from the early years on. Donald 
West and David Farrington, of Cambridge University, followed 411 London 
boys from childhood to adulthood, and concluded that those who were 
hostile or aggressive at the ages of eight or ten were likely to be 
hostile or aggressive when sixteen or eighteen. A Norwegian psychologist, 
Dan Olweus, reviewed this study and many others, and concluded that there 
is a great deal of continuity in male aggressiveness and misconduct. 
Aggressiveness tends to appear very early, often by the age of three, and 
to persist for many years in ways that are clearly reflected in the 
reports of parents, teachers, and police officers, and even in the reports 
of the young men themselves.<P>
What is remarkable about this persistence is that it occurs despite the 
fact that aggression is often punished. Don's parents hit him; we can 
safely assume that his teachers scold him; and it is likely that in time 
the police will arrest him. Some explain this persistence with the 
argument that punishment actually causes aggression: young men and women 
who are hit or abused learn to hit or abuse in return; they model 
themselves on the behavior of others, leading to a "cycle of violence." 
Others believe that the child brings to the family some constitutional 
dispositions, acquired by heredity or from the accidents of prenatal or 
birth traumas, that not only cause him to behave more aggressively than 
others but cause his parents to treat him differently from his brothers 
and sisters. Still others think that it is not punishment that causes 
aggressiveness but punishment poorly conceived and badly executed. 
Whatever the case, contemporary research, by Patterson and by scores of 
others, has placed the family at the center of any effort to explain and 
reduce unruly or violent behavior.<P>
The role of the family in producing such behavior seems to be a greater 
mystery to social scientists than to parents. If one asked the average 
citizen why some people are more likely than others to misbehave, he or 
she would very likely blame family experiences. If one then asked why 
children from the same family differ in their behavior, the citizen would 
probably say that because children have different temperaments, they react 
differently to the same treatment, or are treated differently by their 
parents, or both.<P>
When Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, at the Harvard Law School, published in 
1960 the results of their ten-year study of delinquent boys in the Boston 
area, they concluded that if one held age, race, neighborhood, and 
(roughly) intelligence constant, delinquency appeared to be the result of 
an interaction between certain constitutional traits (body type and 
temperament) and a family environment in which one or both parents were 
indifferent or hostile and followed lax or erratic disciplinary 
practices.<P>
There were criticisms of the Gluecks' research. Some suggested that the 
observations of the boys may have been colored by the observer's knowledge 
of whether or not a boy was delinquent. Others noted that some of the 
factors thought to be most important in producing delinquency, such as the 
degree of affection and the disciplinary practices of the parents, were 
not observed directly but inferred from statements by the boys and their 
parents. Still others objected to the Gluecks' efforts to predict who 
would become delinquent given a certain family background; such 
predictions, it was argued, might unfairly label a decent boy a 
troublemaker.<P>
But if the only problems with the Gluecks' findings were these and similar 
methodological difficulties, one would have expected better studies to be 
mounted that would test their conclusions more rigorously. Few such 
studies were done. The reason, I suspect, is that the beliefs of social 
scientists about what constituted the appropriate objects of research 
changed. By the mid-1950s, the family was no longer the major unit of 
analysis in criminological research, having been supplanted by the gang 
and the social system.<P>
Owing in part to an apparent rise in gang violence in the 1950s and in 
part to the advent of a newer group of criminologists, various theoretical 
perspectives that assigned a less prominent role to the family (and no 
role at all to constitutional traits) became dominant. One view held that 
children naturally conform to the values to which they are exposed; 
delinquents are simply exposed to values different from those the rest of 
us learn. The social class of the family or of other boys on the street 
will be an especially important determinant of what values boys accept. 
Lower-class boys may come to disparage the conventional ethic of success 
and embrace instead the values of toughness and immediate gratification.<P>
Another view, first formalized in 1949 by Robert K. Merton, of Columbia 
University, held that man is governed by the relationship between his 
aspirations and the means available to achieve them. Families may 
encourage boys to want a good car and social respect, but if society 
denies the boys legitimate means for obtaining them, they might react by 
stealing to get the car and committing violent acts to earn the respect. 
Richard A. Cloward and Lloyd E. Ohlin, both then at Columbia University, 
applied this view to delinquency in 1960 by asserting that economically 
disadvantaged adolescents turn to crime as a way of achieving material 
goods and avoiding the shame that accompanies economic failure.<P>
Other writers claimed in the 1950s and 1960s that delinquency was less the 
result of having learned from peers to commit crimes or of being driven to 
crime by frustrated expectations than the result of being arbitrarily 
labeled a criminal by society and its institutions. Young people who 
violate some arbitrary social convention are called criminals; once 
treated as criminal, they become criminal.<P>
Travis Hirschi, of the University of Arizona, observed that these 
perspectives sought to explain crime not by reference to manifestly wicked 
influences but by reference to supposedly good ones. Whereas an older 
generation of criminologists, of which the Gluecks were very much a part, 
thought that evil causes evil (for example, bad families produce bad 
children), many members of the newer generation were attracted to the idea 
that good--for example, the desire for achievement, the class structure, 
the economic order, or the decisions of the police and judges-
produces evil. This view was most clearly implied by Merton: "A cardinal 
American virtue, 'ambition,' promotes a cardinal American vice, 'deviant 
behavior.'"<P>
The critical stance of many criminologists was reinforced by reformist 
impulses that led them, implicitly or explicitly, to explain social 
problems by reference to those factors that are, or appear to be, 
susceptible to planned change. The 1950s was a period of worry about gang 
violence, the 1960s one of attention to civil rights and economic 
opportunity. It was natural to assume that if one wished to deal with 
these problems, one had first to make them the focus of one's analysis. 
Gangs, race, social class, and criminal justice were concepts that seemed 
close to the crime problem and amenable to change. By contrast, the family 
was given less attention because of two defects: it was not on the public 
agenda, and it was not clear how its practices might be altered.<P>
The study of the family did not stop, of course but it did begin to lose 
its connection with the study of crime. Research on child development, for 
example, was a vigorous enterprise, but one not much concerned with crime 
(though it was concerned with behavior such as hostility and aggression, 
which we now know to be strong indicators of later criminality). There 
were exceptions: the sociologists William McCord and Joan McCord continued 
to trace well into adulthood the unhappy effects on later behavior caused 
by the discordant families in which a group of Cambridge and Somerville 
(Massachusetts) boys had been raised in the 1930s and 1940s.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
The family was placed once again near the center of criminological 
attention by the masterful study of Travis Hirschi, published in 1969 
under the title Causes of Delinquency. It began, as do most path-breaking 
works, by showing how we had been asking the wrong question. Most 
criminologists had been trying to explain how a naturally good person, or 
at least a naturally compliant one, might be led by social forces--gangs, 
schools, the police, labor markets--to commit crimes (or "deviant acts," a 
phrase used by those criminologists who were anxious to avoid giving the 
impression that "crime" was anything more than the label middle-class 
society attached to behavior it didn't like). Hirschi argued that the 
first question is not why men break the law but why they obey it: 
conformity, not deviance, is what is most in need of explanation.<P>
His answer was that people obey rules to the extent that they form a bond 
to society. That bond is composed of four elements: attachment, chiefly to 
the family; commitment, by which Hirschi meant a prudent regard for the 
costs of wrong actions and the benefits of right ones; involvement in 
conventional activities, such as school; and belief in the moral validity 
of society's rules. Hirschi tested his theory against the predictions that 
could be derived from rival theories by gathering information about the 
delinquent acts and personal backgrounds of several thousand junior and 
senior high school children living in and around Richmond, California.<P>
The number of delinquent acts, as reported by the children themselves, was 
powerfully influenced by the children's attachment to their parents. The 
closer the mother's supervision of the child, the more intimate the 
child's communication with his father, and the greater the affection 
between child and parents, the less the delinquency. Even when the father 
held a low-status job, the stronger the child's attachment to him, the 
less his delinquency. Other factors also contributed to delinquency, such 
as whether the child did well in and liked school, but these factors were 
themselves affected by family conditions. Hirschi's evidence supported his 
"social control" theory of the sources of delinquency better than it 
supported any alternative theories, such as those that say delinquency 
results largely from the influence of peers or the social class of the 
child: after one takes into account the bond with the parents and doing 
well in school, the contribution of parental class nearly vanishes, and 
that of delinquent friends sharply drops.<P>
A very large body of data has demonstrated beyond much doubt the powerful 
effect on aggressiveness and delinquency of being raised in a family that 
is discordant, lacking in affection, or given to inappropriate 
disciplinary practices. The best studies are those that have followed a 
group of boys while they were growing up. The longest-running inquiry was 
the Cambridge-Somerville one, which began in 1937; data from it are still 
being published. From these industrial communities, 660 boys were selected 
to participate in a program designed to prevent delinquency. Half were 
chosen because teachers or social workers thought they were likely to 
become delinquent, the other half because they were thought to be normal 
boys. They entered the program at age eleven, on the average, well before 
most had committed any delinquent acts. The object was to test the 
efficacy of a counseling program in preventing delinquency, and to that 
end the boys were randomly assigned to treatment and control groups. There 
is little evidence that the counseling worked, but that is not what 
interests us here. Rather, the study is valuable because of the 
relationship it found between family background--as reported by 
counselors, teachers, social workers, and doctors--and behavior.<P>
In 1955, eighteen years after the program began, William McCord and Joan 
McCord analyzed the voluminous records of these boys "blind"--that is, 
without knowing in advance which boys had been convicted of crimes and 
which had not. Thus, whatever biases may have existed in the Gluecks' 
research, owing to their prior knowledge of who was delinquent, could not 
have affected the McCords' investigation. The McCords found that the 
delinquent boys were about twice as likely as the nondelinquent ones to 
come from homes where parental disciplinary practices had been rated as 
erratic or lax. Delinquents were also much more likely to come from homes 
with a quarrelsome rather than an affectionate or cohesive atmosphere. The 
combined effect of these two factors--warmth (or its absence) and 
consistent discipline (or its absence)--was powerful: all the boys from 
quarrelsome families with erratic discipline, but only one fourth of those 
from cohesive families with consistent discipline, were convicted of a 
crime.<P>
Lest someone suppose that the courts were more likely to convict boys from 
unhappy than from happy homes, the McCords analyzed separately the 
backgrounds of those boys who were described by counselors or others as 
aggressive but who had not officially been called delinquent. They found 
that these aggressive boys had essentially the same family backgrounds as 
the convicted delinquents.<P>
It is possible that these differences in family background reflect how the 
boys were originally selected for inclusion in the study; children chosen 
because they appeared especially good or especially bad might differ more 
in family circumstances than would a random sample of boys. Indeed, it is 
possible that some of the boys were chosen because of what the teachers or 
others already knew about their families. There is not much evidence in 
the Cambridge-Somerville project that this was the case, but it cannot be 
ruled out entirely. Fortunately, another long-term study, this one in 
England, was carried out in ways that eliminate this potential source of 
bias. West and Farrington followed the careers of 411 boys chosen at 
random from a working-class section of London, starting at age eight and 
continuing for seventeen years. The boys were given batteries of tests and 
interviews, and their parents were interviewed about once a year until the 
boys were teenagers. West and Farrington gathered information about 
self-reported, as well as officially recorded, delinquency. By the time 
they reached the age of twenty-five, a third of the boys had criminal 
records. About thirty of the boys became persistent repeat offenders; in 
fact, those thirty accounted for more than half the convictions of the 
entire group.<P>
The delinquent boys were more likely than the nondelinquent ones to have 
low IQs and to have parents who were cruel, neglectful, or passive. Boys 
described as aggressive by teachers or by themselves had the same 
background as the officially reported delinquents. Parental behavior could 
not explain all of the observed delinquency, however. If the father had a 
criminal record, this materially increased the chance that the son would 
be delinquent, independent of family income and parental behavior. In all, 
five factors seemed to play the largest role in predicting which boys 
would become delinquent: low intelligence (as measured by both verbal and 
nonverbal tests), large family size, parental criminality, low family 
income, and poor child-rearing practices.<P>
What is indisputable in the London study is the impact of adverse child
rearing practices. West concluded: "A particularly noticeable 
characteristic of the parents of many of the delinquents in the study was 
carelessness or laxness in matters of supervision. They were less 
concerned than other parents to watch over or to know about their 
children's doings, whereabouts and companions, and they failed to enforce 
or to formulate fixed rules about such things as punctuality, manners, 
bedtime, television viewing or tidying up."<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
All this may strike the average parent as so obvious that it seems hard to 
believe that so much time and money had to be spent to establish it. 
Before making exasperated comments about professors reinventing the wheel, 
however, a parent reading this should be aware that there are at least 
three other possible explanations for the observed connection between 
family circumstances and youthful criminality. One is that delinquency is 
caused by the labels society attaches to children. A youngster from a 
discordant home is more likely, in this view, to be arrested and charged 
with a crime that if committed by a child from a happy (or an influential) 
home would result in the child's release in the custody of his parents. No 
doubt different kinds of children are treated differently by governmental 
institutions. There is evidence, for example, that a delinquent from a 
broken home is more likely to be incarcerated than one from an intact 
home. But the labeling process cannot explain away the influence of 
families on misconduct generally, because, as we saw in the studies 
mentioned so far, the connection between discordant or unaffectionate 
families and delinquency exists even when our only knowledge of the 
delinquent act comes from the child himself (Hirschi; West and Farrington) 
or from counselors instead of police officers (the McCords).<P>
A second explanation for the link between family life and criminality 
rests on the possibility that the child may have inherited from his 
parents some cognitive deficiency or temperamental predisposition that 
causes his aggressiveness. In this view, the discordant family is not so 
much the cause of the misconduct as either a reaction to it (a mother 
slaps or yells at children who since birth have been fussy or irritable) 
or irrelevant to it (the delinquent is born, not made). There are good 
scientific grounds for believing that the child is not a blank slate on 
which families, friends, and society can write at will. There is some 
constitutional, possibly genetic, predisposition to certain forms of 
misconduct, as shown by elaborate studies in Scandinavia and elsewhere 
that reveal a connection between the criminality (or the alcoholism) of 
the biological father and the subsequent criminality (or alcoholism) of 
the son, even though the son was adopted at a very early age and raised by 
non-criminal foster parents. Important as these constitutional factors may 
be, their exact operation is not well understood, nor do they account for 
all of the individual differences in criminality that we observe. Familial 
factors play an important role.<P>
A third explanation is that discordant or unaffectionate parents cause 
aggression by their use of punishment, especially physical punishment. One 
famous study, by Robert Sears, Eleanor Maccoby, and Harry Levin, concluded 
that "the more severe the punishment, the more aggression the child 
showed." Barclay Martin, after reviewing the evidence about how young 
(aged two to five) children go about seeking attention from their mothers, 
noted that the studies suggested that punishing attention
seeking behavior seemed to increase rather than decrease the frequency of 
the children's demands. The clear implication of such findings is that the 
use of punishment is at least as likely to teach children, by their 
observations, to be aggressive as it is to teach them, by being 
conditioned, to be pacific.<P>
But, as Martin and others have pointed out, there are some reasons to be 
skeptical of such conclusions. First, most are based on the mother's 
report of the child's behavior and of her discipline; both may be 
seriously in error. A mother trying to raise a difficult child may 
overstate how often punishment is used while a mother raising an easy one 
may understate how often it is used; these reporting errors would create a 
false positive correlation between punishment and aggression. Second, most 
such studies neglect the way the child is predisposed to behave. An 
active, restless, fussy child may be punished more frequently than a 
placid, easygoing one. The greater punishment of the former may in fact 
reduce the rate of such misconduct, but because that rate is already high, 
it can appear that more frequent punishment "causes" more frequent 
aggression.<P>
Most important, the effect of punishment (or affection) on behavior will 
depend not on how much is used but on how it is used. For a reward or a 
penalty to have a significant effect on behavior, it must be used in a 
consistent and contingent manner. Suppose a child who nags his mother for 
attention often gets her attention, but on occasion is slapped instead. 
The child will come to believe that he can usually get his mother's 
attention by nagging, even though he is sometimes slapped. Sometimes he 
wins, sometimes he loses, but if he values her attention enough, or if he 
gets his way more often than he gets slapped, he will redouble his 
nagging. If nagging does work often, the amount of it can be very great 
and thus the number of times he gets slapped can be very great as well. 
This can cause the unwary observer to conclude that slapping has "caused" 
the nagging.<P>
Or the parent may slap the child without regard to whether he has broken a 
rule, because the parent is grouchy, or irritated by behavior that 
ordinarily is permitted, or acting under the erroneous belief that a rule 
has been broken. Such punishment, not being clearly contingent on behavior 
defined by some rule, is not likely to produce adherence to any rule; on 
the contrary, to the extent that it is random or erratic (in the child's 
view), it may lead him, just as social-learning theorists argue, to 
believe that violence is a normal and acceptable method of expressing 
one's feelings.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Speculating about all these possibilities is no substitute for directly 
observing children's behavior and trying to change it. Family therapists 
have been doing this, in one way or another, for decades. In the 1950s, 
and to some extent today, a therapist presented with an aggressive, 
sneaky, or hostile child would assume that the youngster was aggressive 
because he was anxious or frustrated or because he had a weak ego, often 
as a result of the parents' neuroses. The therapist would use individual 
psychoanalysis or counseling to "cure" the parents and, sometimes, 
nondirective play therapy to help the child, or would perhaps stage a 
psychodrama that involved the parents and the child simultaneously. In 
general, little of this seemed to make a difference, though there were 
individual success stories.<P>
Beginning in the 1960s, a new approach was tried. Owing to the rising 
influence of behavioral psychologists, foremost among them B. F. Skinner, 
family therapists began looking at a child's behavior as learned on the 
basis of the rewards it received. A young boy would engage in rotten 
behavior if he found it useful. If he got what he wanted from his parents 
and teachers by yelling, shoving, and hitting, no one should be surprised 
to discover that he would continue to yell, shove, and hit. A variant of 
this approach, pioneered by Albert Bandura, held that a child would also 
learn to yell, shove, or hit when he saw other people doing this and 
getting away with it. The clear implication of these theories was that the 
therapist should try to reward the child for doing the right thing instead 
of the wrong thing. There was already evidence that such alleged 
"sicknesses" as bed-wetting, stuttering, and fear of snakes could 
sometimes be cured by rewarding the opposite behavior; why not reduce 
aggression by rewarding obedience?<P>
Soon, the principles of behavioral psychology were being applied in 
schools, foster homes, juvenile institutions, and even adult prisons. This 
application came to be called "behavior modification," a term that fell 
into some public disrepute because a few such programs used drugs or 
electric shock to punish--and, it was hoped, extinguish--undesirable 
behavior. But the great majority of these programs sought chiefly to 
reward desirable behavior by, for example, giving a person a valuable 
token every time he did something right. (Such programs were called "token 
economies.") Other methods were employed as well, all having in common the 
effort to affect behavior by changing its consequences.<P>
There have been countless demonstrations of the fact that applied 
behavioral psychology can change the behavior of individuals in schools, 
clinics, and prisons. Students have been induced to study harder, children 
to throw fewer tantrums, and prisoners to obey institutional rules. But in 
the great majority of cases, these changes disappear soon after the 
individual has left the institution. While behavior modification was an 
effective way to make life easier for people running the institutions, 
there was not much evidence that it was doing anything to protect the 
community.<P>
Perhaps the best-known of these programs tried to improve the behavior of 
delinquent or troublesome youths by placing them in foster homes run on 
behavior-modification principles. The idea was to use psychological theory 
to construct a better family life for children who had an unsatisfactory 
natural home. Achievement Place, in Lawrence, Kansas, is a foster home led 
by two professionally trained foster parents, in which six to eight 
delinquent adolescents live. Through instruction reinforced by a token 
economy, the leaders of Achievement Place hope to teach the delinquents to 
take care of their living quarters, study hard in school, improve their 
social skills, become punctual, and otherwise display self
control and conformity to rules. Since its inception, the Achievement 
Place strategy, now called the "teaching-family model," has been followed 
in many parts of the country; by last year, there were about 170 such 
group homes in operation, staffed by foster parents trained at six 
regional centers. Moreover, the system has been used not only for 
delinquents but for autistic or emotionally disturbed youths, the mentally 
retarded, schizophrenic adults, and even the aged. The bibliography of 
books, articles, and dissertations written about the teaching-family model 
runs to nearly fifty single-spaced pages.<P>
There seems to be little doubt that the teaching-family system improves 
the behavior of even serious delinquents while they are in the group 
homes. But according to a comprehensive review of the system, completed in 
1981 for the National Institute of Mental Health by Richard R. Jones, Mark 
R. Weinrott, and James R. Howard, there is little evidence that it alters 
the rate at which the youths commit offenses one year after their release 
from treatment, or that it has any greater effect on delinquency than do 
other community-based programs.<P>
The reason is obvious. When a delinquent leaves the foster home and 
returns to his discordant family and the criminal street life, most of the 
rewards he receives will once again reinforce, or fail to discourage, 
impulsive, aggressive, or illegal activity. The key to breaking this 
unhappy cycle is to improve life in the delinquent's natural home. Since 
the late 1960s, there have been a number of efforts to do this.<P>
Various programs have been established to teach the parents of troublesome 
youths to be better parents. Among the first was one carried out in 
Tucson, Arizona, by Roland Tharp and Ralph Wetzel and reported on in 1969. 
Believing that the parents of delinquents often failed to reinforce good 
behavior and instead denigrated or nagged their offspring, Tharp and 
Wetzel tried to persuade parents and children to manage their conflicts 
more constructively. To make it easier to manage day-to-day affairs with a 
minimum of discussion and hence of arguments, Tharp and Wetzel designed a 
"behavioral contract" that would set forth the rights and obligations of 
parents and children in a particular family. For example, instead of 
arguing over whether he could use the family car, a boy would enter into a 
contract with his parents whereby he would get the car at stated intervals 
in exchange for performing certain chores and being home at a specified 
time. These and other efforts at family contracting, or, as it is 
sometimes called, contingency management, were based on the assumption 
that rewards should be stably linked to desired behavior on the basis of 
an agreement that seems fair to both sides. The youths whose families 
followed a behavioral contract showed a reduction in offenses, an 
improvement in grades, and an improvement in behavior, but the 
significance of these changes is hard to assess inasmuch as there was no 
control group with which the youths in the experimental program could be 
compared.<P>
A variation of this approach to altering family life was tried in Salt 
Lake City by James F. Alexander and Bruce V. Parsons, then of the 
University of Utah. Several dozen boys and girls who had been involved 
with the juvenile court for various minor delinquencies--truancy, 
shoplifting, drinking, and running away from home--were referred to a 
clinic at the university. There, the youths and their families were 
randomly assigned to one of four groups: a behavior-modification program, 
a conventional group-discussion counseling program, a church-sponsored 
family-counseling program, and a no-treatment group. The 
behavior-modification program involved inducing family members to talk 
more constructively with one another, to tolerate interruptions, and to 
agree on certain standards of conduct and the consequences of conforming 
to those standards. Over the ensuing year and a half, the youths who had 
been in the behavior-modification program were only half as likely to 
reappear in juvenile court as were those who got no treatment or who were 
in the conventional counseling programs; moreover, the brothers and 
sisters of the youths in the treatment program were also less likely to 
get into trouble with the law than were the siblings of the youths in the 
control groups. The number of families involved was so small and the kinds 
of delinquencies averted so minor that the Utah project cannot be regarded 
as settling the question of whether family life can be altered in ways 
that will reduce serious delinquency, but it provided a promising lead.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
That lead has been most thoroughly explored by Gerald R. Patterson and his 
colleagues at the Oregon Social Learning Center. Unlike many other 
therapists, they have concentrated on reducing deviant behavior among 
pre-adolescents rather than on rehabilitating teenage delinquents; in 
fact, much of their research suggests that beyond a certain age, changes 
in the family environment have little, if any, effect on young persons, 
because peer pressure becomes more important than parental rewards. And 
unlike some programs, the Learning Center's is not based on the assumption 
that families need to communicate more (or less); what is crucial is the 
way in which parents define, monitor, and control the behavior of their 
children in routine settings.<P>
The key to Patterson's approach--and that of several like-minded 
therapists, such as Robert Wahler, in Tennessee--is the belief that many 
parents do not know how to raise children. What makes bad families bad is 
not neurosis or indifference as much as incompetence. When parents have an 
unruly, violent, sneaky kid on their hands, it is not because they like 
him that way, or because they don't care how he behaves, or because they 
have failed to solve his Oedipal conflict; it is because they fail to tell 
him clearly how he is expected to behave, fail to monitor his behavior 
closely to ensure that he behaves that way, and fail to enforce the rules 
with appropriate rewards and penalties, promptly and unambiguously 
delivered. The child may actually suffer from a weak sense of self, but 
such a subjective state is not readily changed directly. There is little 
good evidence that therapists can change the behavior of Don, or of 
children like him, by first changing their attitudes; indeed, it would be 
a miracle if they could get so hostile and violent a child as Don even to 
listen to a discussion of his attitudes. Instead, one changes behavior 
first and hopes that changes in underlying attitudes will follow.<P>
Since the mid-1970s, the Learning Center has treated more than 250 
families whose children, ranging in age from three to fifteen, had been 
referred to the clinic because most of them had set fires, stolen 
property, picked fights, or upset their teachers or parents; some were 
victims of child abuse. In the child's home, the therapists carefully 
measured all that occurred between a child and his parents or siblings 
every six seconds for nearly an hour. About half of the child's possible 
ways of behaving were termed "aversive," meaning unpleasant; these 
included whining, yelling, teasing, and hitting.<P>
Their central conclusion was that the families of problem children 
differed from those of normal children not so much in whether they 
punished too much or too little as in whether they knew how to punish. The 
parents of antisocial children both used more punishment (scolding, 
shouting, threatening) than did the parents of normal children and failed 
to make their use of penalties contingent on the child's behavior. More 
precisely, these parents were less likely than others to state clear 
rules, monitor compliance, and punish violations. Instead, they "nattered" 
at the child, occasionally and unpredictably interrupting the nattering 
with a slap or a loss of privileges. Patterson and his colleagues 
suggested that nattering instead of effective discipline occurred in part 
because the parents were less attached than other parents to their 
children, in part because they did not know how to control behavior 
effectively, and in part because they felt overwhelmed by a succession of 
minor problems that cumulatively amounted to a crisis. The irritable 
parent who does not use discipline effectively tends to produce aggressive 
children; the indifferent and ineffective parent tends to produce 
larcenous ones.<P>
The notion that there is a defect in parental SKILL, as opposed to 
personality, mental health, or economic resources, that accounts for 
failures to socialize young children may not be a surprise to many normal 
parents but it is a revolutionary conclusion in the field of family 
psychology. As Patterson observes in his recent book, Coercive Family 
Process, some psychologists, confronted by a young person who becomes 
violent or criminal, have sought explanations "at least as dramatic as the 
phenomena they purport to explain," and so we are treated to accounts of a 
primal instinct for aggression, a lurking Oedipal complex, or a shattering 
divorce. Rather than "cataclysmic episodes, flood tides of rage, or 
crumbling defense structures," what in fact is happening, Patterson 
writes, is the mismanagement of "coercive family processes," processes 
made up of events that are "inherently banal."<P>
Among these banal events are the routine interactions of parents and 
children as they convey, by word, tone, gesture, and expression, their 
approval or disapproval of the behavior of others. Though the literature 
on family socialization is heavy with discussions of the merits of "love" 
versus "punishment," most of the socialization process is carried out by 
the often reflexive display of attention or irritation, interest or 
disinterest, and approval or disapproval.<P>
The failure of parents to use reasonable reinforcements contingent on 
steadily monitored behavior places the child in a situation in which he 
comes to understand that he cannot control by his own actions what happens 
to him. When one receives penalties unconnected to one's own behavior, one 
experiences a kind of stress that Martin E. Seligman has called "learned 
helplessness," just as when one receives rewards that are unearned, one 
develops "learned laziness."<P>
The treatment at the Learning Center was to teach these troubled parents 
how to set clear rules, monitor behavior, and make rewards contingent on 
good behavior and punishment contingent on bad behavior. By rewards, the 
therapists meant not necessarily giving presents in exchange for some 
major instance of good conduct but routinely responding in pleasant and 
supportive ways, or with "points" exchangeable for small privileges (such 
as ice cream for dessert), to pleasant language and helpful behavior. And 
by punishment they meant not only assessing major penalties for major 
misdemeanors but promptly and consistently penalizing unpleasant and 
destructive language and conduct. An especially favored penalty, the value 
of which was established by repeated trials, was "time out"--that is, 
being sent, briefly, usually for five minutes, into seclusion in another 
room, usually the bathroom, without recriminations or long lectures.<P>
Teaching these common-sense methods was difficult, but not nearly so 
difficult as motivating the parents to put them to use. Both instruction 
and motivation required extraordinary clinical skill and patience, neither 
of which was easy to sustain. Patterson does not assume that parents will 
learn how to raise children by reading a book or listening to a lecture. 
If that were all there was to it, they would not be in trouble in the 
first place. Benjamin Spock's reassuring advice to young parents--"You 
know more than you think you do"--is probably correct for most mothers and 
fathers, but it is not correct for those who, owing to their temperament 
and personal problems, are parental disasters. These people sense that 
something is badly wrong with the way they are raising their children, but 
they don't know what to do about it, or, worse, they often think they 
know, so they persist in trying to control children with vague rules that 
are frequently changed and erratically enforced. Moreover, many parents do 
not always share the therapists' enthusiasm for the principles of behavior 
modification. To these mothers and fathers, "reinforcing socially 
desirable behavior" sounds too much like bribing kids to do what they are 
supposed to do anyway, and "relying on positive rather than negative 
reinforcers" seems to be spoiling the child by sparing the rod.<P>
The only way to convince such parents is to show them that the rules they 
learn during many hours spent in the Learning Center actually work. I 
watched videotapes of a woman being trained to cope with her out-of
control young son. The child went to bed only when he felt like it, 
insisted on sleeping with his mother (she had no husband), rarely obeyed 
even the most reasonable commands, spread his excrement all over the 
living-room walls, was a terror to other children who tried to play with 
him, and seemed destined to be a terror to his teachers. The first task 
was to make the mother realize that he was not minding her in important 
ways because he was not minding her in small ones. Every day for one hour 
she had to count the number of times the boy failed to obey an order 
within fifteen seconds of its being issued and report the results to the 
therapist. This led the mother to become aware of how many times she was 
issuing orders and how long she was waiting to get results.<P>
At the second session, she was taught how to use rewards to increase the 
frequency with which her son minded her. Every time he minded within 
fifteen seconds, he was to get one point; at the end of the day, the 
points were added up and converted into some small but valued privilege, 
such as a special dessert. Many parents, impatient, want to use big 
rewards to achieve big, quick improvements in behavior, but this is 
discouraged: such a strategy debases the currency, fails to inculcate the 
habit of minding, and does not reduce routine parental nagging.<P>
At the third session, the mother was taught how to use "time out" as a 
means of discipline. She was told that whenever her son did something 
wrong, she should immediately tell him why it was wrong and order him to 
go to time out--five minutes alone in the bathroom. She resisted doing 
this, because it forced her to confront all of her son's rule-breaking, 
and to do so immediately. She preferred to avoid the conflict and the 
angry protests. She especially resisted using this means to enforce her 
son's going to bed at a stated, appropriate time; she was a lonely, not 
particularly attractive woman, and it was clear to the therapist that she 
wanted her son to sleep with her. In time, the woman was persuaded to try 
this new form of discipline and to back up a failure to go to time out by 
the withdrawal of some privilege ("no TV tonight"). As the weeks went by, 
the woman became excited about the improvement in the boy's behavior and 
came to value having him sleep alone in his own room. Not long after, she 
acquired a male friend.<P>
Some parents come to the Learning Center having relied on severe physical 
punishment to control their children. The staff members do not approve of 
spanking, but neither do they try to talk parents out of it, unless it is 
clearly abusive. Instead, they show the parents that another method works 
better: a lesser penalty, such as time out or a loss of points, given 
immediately for every minor infraction of the rules. Parents who 
physically punish their children usually do so only for major offenses 
that occur at the end of a long sequence of minor ones. These big 
penalties erratically employed only against major misconduct are less 
effective than small ones regularly used to control minor misconduct.<P>
The Learning Center double-checks on the progress of the parents by 
observing the family in action, making frequent phone calls to the home to 
see how things are going at that moment, and gathering information from 
teachers. Increasingly, the researchers at the center have been testing 
their own work using the only scientifically sound method--comparing its 
results to those achieved by other methods applied to similar families. 
Nineteen families of very aggressive children were randomly assigned to 
either the center's parent-training program or some conventional form of 
therapy available in the community. In 1982, Patterson and two associates, 
Patricia Chamberlain and John B. Reid, were able to show that the children 
in the parent-training program displayed a sharp drop in the frequency of 
aversive behavior, while those in the conventional programs showed, on the 
average, no change.<P>
The limit, it turns out, is the amount of time, effort, and therapist 
skill at the disposal of the clinic. Before Patterson's group demonstrated 
what it could accomplish, efforts to prove the lasting value of parent 
training had produced mixed, and often negative, results. Some programs 
reported great success, but it turned out that their measure was the 
parents' own reports that "things were getting better." Parents always 
like to think things are getting better. Observations by outsiders, such 
as schoolteachers and therapists, would often show that things weren't 
getting better at all. Other programs produced no benefits, no matter who 
was reporting, but it would turn out that these programs employed young, 
relatively inexperienced therapists, usually graduate students, and lasted 
only a short time. Patterson has been able to show that training parents 
takes a great deal of time and skill--a family with only minor problems 
may be in treatment for six weeks, one with moderate problems for sixteen 
weeks, and an especially troubled one for much longer. The most 
experienced therapists produce the best results, but only if they are 
continuously supported by a caring and knowledgeable group of 
colleagues.<P>
The Patterson group is coming to understand how complex is the 
relationship between the economic circumstances of a family and its 
child-rearing problems. Most of their clients have low to moderate 
incomes. Half or more are single mothers. Economic disadvantage, 
especially when faced by a lone mother, can be a great source of stress, 
which exacerbates the normal difficulties of raising a child. But the 
connections among economic circumstance, parental personality, and the 
child's behavior are not simple or obvious. The mothers in the Learning 
Center program tend to be maladjusted personalities, as measured by a 
variety of tests. Their economic and marital difficulties may have 
contributed to this, or, just as likely, their personalities have made it 
hard for them to succeed in marriage or in the labor market. If their 
material circumstances improved, the problems of their daily lives would 
be somewhat reduced, but owing to their personalities, their capacity to 
manage the child-rearing stresses common to all families would probably 
remain low.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
It is tempting to speculate about whether the growth in crime experienced 
by this and other nations in the past few decades can be explained by 
changes that have occurred in family life. It is easy to believe that the 
increase in the number of single-parent families, working mothers, or 
unattended, "latchkey" children lies at the root of the increase in 
disorder and delinquency. It may, though I am struck by how weak or 
contradictory the evidence is. For example, a review by Elizabeth Herzog 
and Cecelia E. Sudia of eighteen studies of the relationship between 
broken homes and crime carried out between 1950 and 1970 found seven that 
claimed father-absent homes produced more delinquency, four that claimed 
they produced less, and seven that came to equivocal conclusions. The 
Gluecks, among others, claimed that broken homes made a difference; the 
McCords and Travis Hirschi, among others, claimed they did not. Moreover, 
even if the rise in American crime rates could be explained by the 
increase in female-headed families here, the growth in crime in European 
countries-
a growth that parallels ours almost exactly, though beginning from a lower 
base--cannot be explained this way, because these countries have not had a 
comparable explosion in the number of female-headed homes.<P>
Other things being equal, single-parent families, or two-parent families 
with working mothers, probably experience greater trouble in raising 
children than two-parent families in which the mother stays home--but 
other things are rarely equal. WHY one parent is absent is surely more 
important than whether he is absent. As Michael Rutter, of the University 
of London, notes, based on his own research in England and that of others 
elsewhere, families that are broken by divorce or desertion are more 
likely to affect the child's behavior adversely than those broken by the 
death of one parent. Homes that are broken because of parental discord are 
unhappy places in which the child experiences not only the stresses 
associated with separation but those produced by the discord that led to 
the separation.<P>
Many intact families are also discordant. When New York City families, 
some living on welfare and some not, were studied by a group of 
researchers based at Columbia University, it was found that delinquency 
was best explained among both kinds of families by "parental coldness." 
But this coldness was most strongly associated with delinquency among the 
welfare families because, as the authors put it, the "welfare child is in 
double jeopardy"--when there is no father present, the harmful effects of 
maternal coldness are more serious. Here, as in all aspects of family 
life, what causes what is never quite clear. A discordant or broken home 
may harm the child, but a troublesome child can cause some homes to become 
discordant. Candyce Russell, a sociologist, found that the parents of 
babies who were more demanding--who cried a lot or had feeding 
problems--were more likely to experience discord and crises than the 
parents of quiet infants.<P>
Changes in the structure of the family may have contributed to the growth 
of crime, though of late crime rates seem to have been stable even as the 
number of children raised in broken homes has continued to increase. It is 
more likely that broad social forces--the advent of the baby boom, the 
increase in personal freedom and mobility, the spread of the ethos of self
expression, and the increases in the net benefits of crime (the value of 
loot minus the risk of being caught and punished)--have produced both 
increases in crime and changes in family life.<P>
There is no reason to assume that parents have become less intelligent 
about how to raise children. For hundreds of years, all over the globe, 
parents who have never heard of Dr. Spock, much less of behavior 
modification, have been raising tens of millions of perfectly decent 
children. If crime and disorder have increased, can it be that parents who 
once knew how to raise children have forgotten? It seems unlikely. But it 
may be that social changes have made parents somewhat less interested in 
being parents, and have provided children with more ways to evade parental 
control. More mothers and fathers may have found children to be a burden 
as the traditional social and moral supports for family life have become 
more precarious and the opportunities for distraction and entertainment 
outside the family have become greater. Parents who once just got by as 
child-rearers now find themselves slipping over the edge as it becomes 
harder, or less necessary, just to get by.<P>
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>
Given the deep-seated and poorly understood causes of discord and 
incompetence among families, it is hard to imagine mounting any national 
program to deal with the problem directly. One shudders at the thought of 
developing, as some politicians too eager for the national spotlight have 
proposed, a "national family policy." But at the same time, one also 
wonders whether, starting small and in a frankly experimental mode, we 
might not do more to prevent the frenzied or apathetic incompetence of so 
many families from producing monsters like Don.<P>
The fact that much skill and time are needed to change families means that 
this method of reducing delinquency, like most methods, could not easily 
be made into a national program, or even one that would serve a large 
city. But it is conceivable that the elements of the program might become 
part of an effort to prevent bad parental practices from developing in the 
first place. The principal barrier to success in helping troubled families 
is that they resist help. It is not the complexity of the parenting 
techniques that requires so much time and effort to be devoted to 
therapy--the techniques are simplicity itself, based, as they are, on 
common sense. Rather, it is the client's resistance to adopting these 
techniques, or even to confronting the fact that his or her own practices 
are disastrous, that requires so great an investment of resources.<P>
But suppose that these techniques were learned by young people before they 
become parents and enmesh themselves in the vicious cycle of nagging, 
exasperation, appeasement, and random hitting. Suppose the techniques of 
scoring behavior from videotapes of actual families in trouble were taught 
in school, using the same equipment researchers now rely on--the 
engrossing paraphernalia of hand-held computer terminals and video 
displays with which the Pac-Man generation has become so familiar. Suppose 
the changes in behavior that occur as a result of adopting sensible 
parenting techniques could be seen (on a TV set) by young people. It is 
conceivable that they might find this experience more interesting and this 
information more useful than what they often get from lectures they are 
now obliged to hear on sex education or personal hygiene, to say nothing 
of courses in civics or woodworking. This suggestion--not yet tried, to 
the best of my knowledge, anywhere--may turn out to be but another example 
of misplaced hopes and wishful thinking. But the costs to society of weak, 
discordant, incompetent families is so great as to make the experiment 
worth the effort.
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1983, James Q. Wilson.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"Raising Kids";
The Atlantic Monthly, October, 1983, issue.
Volume 252, Number 4 (pages 45-56).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-30</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B033-115</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/kaminer2.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117192635 text/html 47831
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:26:13 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:10:52 GMT
Content-length: 47625
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Federal Offense 

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>June 1994</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			Federal Offense

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Wendy Kaminer</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



							<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

 

<blockquote>





	<i><font size=4>Politicians do not care what research shows about the perverse effects of 

mandatory sentences or the utility of prisons: they want more of both, and 

devil take the experts</i></font><p>





	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	



	

	<font size=5>I</font>f a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged, a liberal is a 

conservative who has been arrested. Hollywood liberals buy guns. The 

former Reagan Administration official Lyn Nofziger, who was prosecuted in 

the Wedtech scandal, gives thanks to the American Civil Liberties Union. 

Ideology can be sorely tested by experience.<P>

The politics of crime control is, therefore, sometimes a simple matter of 

arithmetic. There are, of course, more crime victims than criminal 

defendants, particularly among the voting public, so there are likely to 

be more conservatives than liberals on the subject of crime--many more. 

Polling data indicate that nearly 80 percent of the American public 

supports the death penalty in the absence of an alternative such as life 

without parole, and this in turn suggests that nearly 80 percent of 

Americans fear being murdered more than they fear being convicted of 

murder.<P>

Conservative approaches to crime thus have a natural advantage over 

liberal ones--an advantage that has been decisive during the recent years 

of intense social anxiety. Liberalism held sway briefly during the 1960s, 

at least until the Nixon law-and-order campaign of 1968, not because crime 

was down (it rose sharply) but, in part, because hope was up. Hope fueled 

the War on Poverty, the civil-rights movement, and feminism; even the 

angriest protests of the Vietnam War reflected hope for the possibility of 

peace.<P>

Today hope seems as out-of-date as beehive hairdos, reaching improbably 

toward the sky. The hopeful notion that prisons might rehabilitate people 

has long been dismissed as naive, displaced by a belief in retributive 

justice and the demand that prisons serve as places of near permanent 

exile for the incorrigible among us. Some liberals still protest America's 

uniquely high incarceration rate, tirelessly pointing out that we imprison 

more people per capita than any other country in the world, but a majority 

of Americans favor building more prisons, despite their cost, and believe 

that sentencing practices are excessively lenient.<P>

At the state and federal levels this year's answer to violent crime has 

been the three-time-loser statute, imposing mandatory life sentences 

without parole on repeat violent offenders, without much regard for the 

nature of their crimes or their characters. In Washington, which last 

November became by referendum the first state to enact a three-time

loser law, qualifying "violent" felonies include drunk driving, promoting 

prostitution, and petty theft. One unintended consequence of this law may 

be an increase of violence on the streets: preliminary anecdotal reports 

from the police suggest that when cornered, offenders may shoot their way 

out rather than surrender and face life in prison. Three-time-loser laws 

have also been widely criticized as arbitrary and as burdensome to the 

nation's prisons and courts. (Such laws are bound to increase the number 

of trials, since people aren't likely to plead to life imprisonment, 

resulting in still more delays throughout the system.) Nevertheless, the 

drive to imprison more people for longer periods of time seems 

unstoppable, fueled not just by fury and fear but by a sense of 

resignation. It is as if all we can do is warehouse people until they die 

or are too old and decrepit to threaten anyone on the outside again.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>AN UNCHANGEABLE FACT OF LIFE?</B><P>



<font size=5>P</font>ublic dismay about crime poses more than a rhetorical challenge to an 

Administration that came to power urging people to vote their hopes, not 

their fears. Adopting violence-prevention programs, as Attorney General 

Janet Reno has advocated for many months, requires hope that the federal 

government in partnership with localities can treat the social pathologies 

that give rise to crime. Indeed, the assumption that there are 

identifiable, treatable connections between these pathologies--for 

example, the neglect and abuse of children--and crime reflects the hopeful 

notion that violent people are made, not born, and can sometimes be 

unmade, if intervention comes early enough. Along with faith in the 

curative powers of good government, programs to treat and prevent violent 

behavior reflect faith in the malleability of human beings and the 

capacity of distressed people and communities for self-improvement.<P>

Despite his sunniness about America, Ronald Reagan presented a much darker 

view of criminality, which still holds popular appeal. There are no social 

solutions to crime, Reagan asserted in 1981, because crime is not a social 

problem; "it's a problem of the human heart." Reagan cited what he viewed 

as a dual liberal fallacy about crime--the conviction that ameliorating 

poverty might reduce crime and the assumption that "there [is] nothing 

permanent or absolute about man's nature."<P>

This bleak vision of crime as an unchangeable fact of life, implicitly 

equating crime with original sin, dismisses liberalism as utopian. 

Government can respond to the symptoms with arrest and incarceration, but 

only God can treat the disease, Reagan implied.<P>

The public-policy expert James Q. Wilson offered a more thoughtful, less 

biblical variation on this theme in his landmark book Thinking About 

Crime, in which he chided liberals for seeking to treat the root causes of 

crime. In 1968 John Lindsay, then the mayor of New York City, gave a 

typical definition of these causes: "the poverty that grips over thirty 

million of our citizens." Lindsay added, "If we are to eliminate the crime 

and violence in this country, we must eliminate the hopelessness, 

futility, and alienation from which they spring." It's not that social 

reasons for crime don't exist, Wilson wrote, but they are practically 

impossible to address. "The more we understand the causes of crime, the 

more we are drawn into the complex and subtle world of attitudes, 

predispositions, and beliefs, a world in which planned intervention is 

exceptionally difficult." In Wilson's view, the liberal fallacy was the 

notion that "no problem is adequately addressed unless its causes are 

eliminated."<P>

Wilson argued that policy is most effective when it focuses on objective 

matters like the costs and benefits of crime, not the realm of "the 

subjective and the familial." He posited criminals as essentially rational 

human beings who would be deterred from committing crimes when the 

associated costs became impractical.<P>

It's impossible to know how many violent offenders weigh the consequences 

of their actions. (It's likely that many who do engage in cost-benefit 

analyses never get past assuming they won't be arrested.) Certainly 

thirteen-year-old boys with guns and a wide range of neurotics, 

psychotics, and apparently sane, smart killers like Gary Gilmore tend to 

act impulsively, without regard for harsh sentencing laws. Nor would the 

prospect of a prison sentence necessarily deter a young male for whom 

imprisonment has become a rite of passage or a haven from the street: 

"three hots and a cot." A sentence might not even distress his parents. 

One Boston defense attorney remembers the first time the mother of a 

client encouraged her not to free him from prison. "At least I'll know 

where he is," she said.<P>

The poignancy of this appeal, and the threatened destruction of several 

young generations, may force liberals and conservatives alike to 

reconsider some of their most basic assumptions. "Those mothers in the 

ghetto love their children," Senator Orrin Hatch asserts, with all the 

force of revelation, and he acknowledges that poverty is related to crime 

(as is a welfare system that "does not stimulate the desire to make 

something of yourself"). "Some people become locked in poverty and become 

embittered in the process," Hatch says. "That's why drugs are so rampant 

in our society. Kids in the ghetto can make more money pushing drugs than 

working for the minimum wage." Meanwhile, Jesse Jackson is preaching 

self-help, an ethic of individual and communal responsibility, and telling 

African-Americans to "look inward to go forward." President Clinton is 

emboldened to exhort an African-American congregation to address the 

violence within their own community.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>MANDATORY MINIMUMS</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>he new talk about crime control has not, however, been a prelude to new 

programs. It has long been clear that the President is willing to give 

people the "tough" law-enforcement measures they seem to want--death 

penalties and three-time-loser laws--and the Senate has been even more 

anxious to demonstrate toughness on crime. The Senate's $23 billion crime 

bill, promising more prisons and police officers, longer sentences, and 

some fifty new federal death penalties, was passed in a few frenzied weeks 

last fall, after state and local elections that seemed to crystallize 

voters' concern about crime.<P>

"If someone came to the Senate floor and said we should barbwire the 

ankles of anyone who jaywalks, I think it would pass," Senator Joseph 

Biden said, shortly after voting with ninety of his colleagues to impose 

mandatory life sentences on people with the bad luck or bad judgment to 

commit their third "violent" felony on federal property. This bill would 

have particularly harsh effects on Native Americans who live on federally 

owned reservations, but it would not affect the majority of offenders 

nationwide. The small number to whom it could apply would be bound to 

include people who were more hapless than vicious, given the expansive 

definitions of "violent" incorporated in the bill. The only vote against 

this proposal, which promised to be both harsh and ineffective, was cast 

by Bob Packwood, conscience of the Senate.<P>

Three-time-loser laws need not, of course, be written this stupidly. (The 

House has offered a narrower, smarter law.) But the more narrowly these 

laws are drafted, the more redundant they may be. Violent crimes already 

carry lengthy sentences, and many states have career-criminal laws that 

impose strict mandatory terms on repeat felony offenders. (In the states 

that have career-criminal laws, crime rates have generally stayed in line 

with those in the rest of the country.) The problem that is supposed to be 

addressed by three-time-loser laws--the early release of violent felons-

might best be solved not by inflexible life sentences but by more rational 

allocations of prison space, decreases in the sentences of nonviolent 

offenders, and increases in strictly supervised alternatives to prison. 

More felons are put back on the street by prison overcrowding than by 

soft-hearted judges or legislators--creatures more mythic than real.<P>

If, however, it is easy to imagine an arguably reasonable, narrowly drawn 

three-time-loser law, it is practically impossible to imagine state or 

federal legislators actually drafting one. Limiting the application of a 

three-time-loser law also limits its political appeal. A legislator who 

voted to allow for the release of geriatric prisoners after twenty-five or 

thirty years, or to exempt from the list of qualifying felonies burglaries 

or robberies in which no one is harmed, would probably be labeled soft on 

crime. And the recent history of congressional action on sentences 

demonstrates that lawmakers are less concerned with reducing crime than 

with signaling their concern about it.<P>

Congress has traditionally committed itself to the promise of strict, sure 

sentencing, with little regard for consequences or facts. Consider federal 

sentencing laws. From 1984 to 1990 Congress every two years demonstrated 

its toughness on crime by enacting mandatory minimum sentences for various 

drug and firearms offenses, including drug offenses committed near 

schools, violent crimes (defined broadly) or drug crimes involving the use 

of a firearm (the firearm triggers a mandatory sentence in addition to the 

sentence for the underlying offense), the possession of more than five 

grams of crack cocaine, and any degree of involvement in a drug 

conspiracy.<P>

These laws have had no demonstrable effect on drug- or gun-related 

violence but they have greatly increased the number of people taking up 

space in federal prisons for nonviolent, low-level drug offenses. 

According to one study, in the year ending September, 1992, more than 

3,000 drug offenders with no record of violent crime in the previous 

fifteen years were sentenced to minimum terms of at least five years. From 

1984 to 1990 the proportion of people sent to federal prison for drug 

offenses rose 12 percent, while the proportion of people sentenced for 

violent crimes and property offenses declined, according to a study by the 

Federal Judicial Center. Today more than 60 percent of all federal 

prisoners are serving time for drug offenses, including the simple 

possession of marijuana or cocaine.<P>

These statistics are hardly news to legislators or policymakers, and 

stories about people spending five to ten years in federal prison for 

playing minimal roles in drug conspiracies have begun to appear in the 

mainstream press. Last November, The New York Times featured the case of a 

twenty-four-year-old man serving ten years in a federal prison because he 

agreed to help a federal undercover agent find someone selling LSD at a 

Grateful Dead concert. Relatives of people like this have formed a 

lobbying group, Families Against Mandatory Minimums, headed by Julie 

Stewart, whose brother is serving five years for a first offense--growing 

marijuana at home. Critics of mandatory minimums range from Janet Reno to 

Orrin Hatch. Hatch does not oppose mandatory minimums in principle, but he 

acknowledges that they have been "overused" for low-level, nonviolent 

crimes. Reno has been critical of mandatory minimums (though her 

criticisms do not appear to have had much effect on Administration 

policy).<P>

There is also strong opposition to mandatory sentencing from federal 

judges, both Republican and Democratic appointees. In one survey a 

majority of judges and a majority of probation officers, in addition to 

most defense attorneys, viewed mandatory minimums unfavorably, as did 

about a third of federal prosecutors.<P>

Widespread, bipartisan dissatisfaction with mandatory minimums, however, 

is not likely to effect any meaningful reform. Senator Biden, who does not 

generally support mandatory minimums, considers proposals to reform them 

utterly unrealistic: "I can count: eighty percent of the Congress and 

eighty-five percent of the public still believes the misinformed rhetoric 

about sentencing."<P>

Much of what people don't know about mandatory minimums is included in a 

1991 report on them by the U.S. Sentencing Commission, which gently 

recommended their repeal. The Sentencing Commission was established by 

Congress in 1984 and charged with promulgating guidelines for sentences in 

federal cases. This represented a revolution in sentencing which was 

initially sparked by liberal protests about undue sentence disparity 

resulting from the broad discretion exercised by judges and parole 

boards.<P>

A bill to establish a commission had been introduced by Senator Ted 

Kennedy in 1975. It took nearly ten years for Kennedy's bill to pass the 

Senate, and by the time the commission was established, the political 

climate had changed considerably. As Kate Stith and Steve Koh point out in 

a 1993 article in the Wake Forest Law Review, sentence reform was 

"conceived by liberal reformers as an anti-imprisonment and 

antidiscrimination measure, but finally born as part of a more 

conservative law-and-order crime control measure."<P>

Federal sentencing guidelines are stringent and are generally reviled by 

defense attorneys. They are also quite rigid and complex. Judges are 

required to rely on a sentencing table, established by the commission, 

which lists generic offense-severity levels in a vertical column and 

offenders' characteristics (mainly criminal histories) horizontally, 

creating a grid on which the judge locates the appropriate sentence range, 

which is fairly narrow. Judges are not supposed to consider mitigating 

factors, such as a defendant's family and community ties, employment 

history, or emotional and mental state. Sentencing becomes a technical 

task, not one requiring thinking or judgment. Judges have only limited 

discretion to depart from the guidelines, which have thus always been 

quite controversial. (The guidelines were challenged on constitutional 

grounds but upheld by the Supreme Court in 1989.) Still, sentencing 

guidelines don't eliminate all judicial discretion from sentencing, as the 

mandatory minimums do. If Congress had stopped at establishing the 

Sentencing Commission and not gone on to enact so many new mandatory 

minimums, it would have avoided much of the controversy about sentencing 

today.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>"PATHETIC CASES COME ALONG"</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>he establishment of a sentencing commission, however, isn't nearly as 

dramatic an anti-crime measure as the passage of mandatory-minimum 

statutes carrying sentences of many years. So, in the same year that 

Congress empowered the commission to create sentencing guidelines, it 

enacted new mandatory minimums for drug offenses. This wasn't quite a 

revolution in sentencing. Federal mandatory minimums date back to 1790. 

Today, the Sentencing Commission points out, federal penal law comprises a 

patchwork of about a hundred mandatory-minimum provisions contained in 

sixty statutes, which make up a little social history of crime. Like the 

federalization of local crimes, the enactment of mandatory minimums is a 

congressional show of concern for the crimes of the times. In 1790 piracy 

carried a mandatory life sentence; causing a vessel to run aground by use 

of false light carried ten years. In 1888 the bribery of a harbor 

inspector in Baltimore or New York was made subject to a mandatory minimum 

sentence of six months. In 1913 a mandatory prison sentence or fine was 

imposed on commodities-price fixing. In 1934 homicide or kidnapping 

committed during a bank robbery or larceny was made subject to a mandatory 

minimum sentence of ten years. In 1965 mandatory life imprisonment was 

applied to the murder of a President or a member of the executive staff. 

In the 1980s Congress turned its attention to drug offenses.<P>

All these laws are still on the books; few are enforced. According to the 

Sentencing Commission, nearly 60,000 offenders were sentenced under 

mandatory minimums from 1984 to 1990; of the sixty mandatory

minimum statutes only four accounted for 94 percent of these cases, which 

related to drug offenses or carrying a firearm during a drug-related or 

violent crime. Of the nearly 7,000 defendants sentenced in fiscal year 

1990 under mandatory minimums, 91 percent were primarily drug offenders.<P>

There are, then, essentially two federal sentencing systems in place. 

People who are not charged under statutes carrying mandatory sentences are 

sentenced under the commission guidelines. Since the guidelines are 

stringent, mandatory minimums seem at best redundant when applied to 

serious cases. At worst, and quite often, they're arbitrary and 

excessively harsh.<P>

"Pathetic cases come along," the federal appeals court judge Stephen 

Breyer remarked in a speech to the American Bar Association last August. 

"No one will ever formulate a system of law for which you don't have to 

have exceptions." Breyer tells the story of a bank-robbery case involving 

"a man with the IQ of a seven-year-old who got a toy gun, went to a bank, 

got seventy dollars to get an operation for his dog, his best friend in 

the world, turned himself in to the FBI, and the dog died anyway. What 

should we do? Give him life?"<P>

As Judge Breyer's story suggests, mandatory minimum sentences hold people 

strictly liable for their acts, regardless of any mitigating 

circumstances, which is another way of saying that mandatory minimums 

preclude individualized determinations of accountability--which is another 

way of saying they're un-American.<P>

Virtually all of us act immorally if not illegally at least on occasion. 

We'd like to believe that if we ever get caught or feel compelled to 

confess, we'll be judged not simply by what we've done but by why we did 

it and who we are. In other words, we want our acts to be judged in the 

context of motivation and personal history, and a concept of character 

that involves more than our worst offenses. People do sometimes commit bad 

acts for good reasons, which means that guilt--and especially sentences

-ought to be determined by considering the actor as well as the act. Two 

people may behave similarly under different circumstances, calling for 

different standards of accountability. A retarded man who holds up a bank 

with a toy gun in order to save his dog ought to be treated more leniently 

than, say, a successful college student who holds up a bank with a toy gun 

in order to buy a new car. Even in hard cases involving felony assaults or 

homicides, motive and character should play some role in sentencing. A 

woman who shoots her husband because he has been beating her and her 

children for several years seems less culpable than a woman who shoots her 

husband for money. Imposing the same mandatory sentence in both cases 

would be imposing punishment without regard to guilt.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>LAW VERSUS JUSTICE</B><P>





<font size=5>I</font>t's not surprising that people who bring a sense of justice to the system 

of mandatory minimums often find themselves at odds with the law. Judge 

Breyer observes that mandatory-minimum-sentencing schemes encourage 

disrespect and disregard for the law among the people charged with 

enforcing it. "You cannot tell human beings to do things they think are 

totally unfair. They won't do it. They'll figure a way out." The judge may 

be constrained from imposing a lesser sentence, but "the prosecutor won't 

prosecute, the juries won't convict." In fact, according to Breyer, many 

federal prosecutors are using their discretion not to prosecute under 

mandatory minimums. Mandatory-minimum statutes do not eliminate discretion 

or disparities in sentencing. They shift discretion from judges to 

prosecutors.<P>

Pursuant to mandatory-minimum-sentencing laws, prosecutors essentially 

decide how defendants will be sentenced when they decide how defendants 

will be charged. This clear usurpation of judicial authority is justified 

as a way of providing prosecutors with an important bargaining tool: they 

use the threat of indictment under a mandatory

minimum statute to persuade defendants to cooperate and inform.<P>

But as a practical matter, the defendants most likely to have information 

for which prosecutors will bargain tend to be more rather than less 

culpable in the criminal enterprise: the lower you are in a drug deal, the 

less you're likely to know, and the less bargaining power you have to 

stave off an indictment. Federal law also allows judges to depart from the 

mandatory minimums after conviction and impose lesser sentences if 

prosecutors request them, claiming that defendants have provided 

"substantial assistance"--which, once again, tends to reward higher-level 

defendants and penalize the lowly.<P>

It's not surprising that under this system sentence disparities abound. 

According to a 1992 report by the Federal Judicial Center, as late as the 

first half of 1990 nearly 50 percent of offenders who appeared eligible 

for a mandatory minimum term received a lesser sentence. In addition to 

disparate treatment of higher- and lower-level defendants, there are 

regional and racial differences in sentencing practices. The Federal 

Judicial Center report observed that although blacks have always tended to 

receive longer sentences than whites, sentence disparities increased 

following the introduction of new mandatory minimums in the 1980s. 

Examining data from 1989 and 1990, the Sentencing Commission found that 68 

percent of blacks received sentences at or above the minimum, whereas only 

57 percent of Hispanics and 54 percent of whites did. Significant racial 

differences in sentencing remained when the commission took into account 

the severity of the offense. (In contrast, the commission found, offense 

behavior did seem to account for differences in the sentencing of males 

and females.) Calling for further research, the commission nevertheless 

reported that its findings imply that race plays a role in sentence 

disparities, which have yet to be acknowledged, much less addressed, by 

Congress.<P>

If Congress were genuinely interested in truth in sentencing, it would 

make clear to the public how erratically and arbitrarily mandatory 

minimums are enforced. It would point out that federal sentencing 

guidelines already call for very tough sentences for serious crimes. It 

would explain that defendants are not faceless or fungible: they and their 

circumstances vary, even when they are charged with the same crime, and 

judges must have at least limited discretion to vary their sentences.<P>

But there are so few ways for Congress to demonstrate toughness on crime. 

The Senate passed new mandatory minimums last November, with no apparent 

opposition from the Administration. As Orrin Hatch concedes, "Mandatory 

minimums are a political response to violent crime. Let's be honest about 

it. It's awfully difficult for politicians to vote against them."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>DURANCE VILE</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>t's equally difficult to address rationally the problem of prison 

overcrowding without rational sentencing policies. But the Senate voted to 

build new prisons anyway. It allocated $3 billion for the construction of 

high-security regional prisons, to be made available to the states on the 

condition that they adopt "binding sentencing guideline systems" and 

require violent felons to serve at least 85 percent of their sentences.<P>

Informed opinion is divided over the merits of regional prisons (which 

house people from several states). Some say that they're needed to break 

up prison gangs that form when people are imprisoned locally. Some argue 

that regional prisons will separate people not just from fellow gang 

members but also from their families. Positive familial and community ties 

are considered primary deterrents to recidivism. The public is not 

involved in the debate about regional prisons, but it supports a general 

increase in prison space. Sixty percent of people responding to a Time/CNN 

poll last year said they favored building new prisons even at the cost of 

a significant tax increase. More striking is the degree of public 

dissatisfaction with the courts, based on the belief that judges are soft 

on crime. Eighty-one percent of people surveyed by the National Opinion 

Research Center agreed that "courts do not deal harshly enough with 

criminals." In fact, most public anger at the criminal-justice system 

seems to be anger at the courts, not at legislators, police officers, or 

corrections personnel. The perception that a great many violent felons are 

serving very little prison time is driving the crime debate.<P>

It's a perception based primarily on anecdotes--which doesn't mean it's 

false. But periodic stories about people who commit horrific crimes while 

they're on probation or parole or awaiting trial mostly provide political 

pressure to build more prisons, not empirical evidence that more prisons 

will make us safer.<P>

It's true that prisons are overcrowded. Representative Barney Frank 

observes that in some circumstances liberals should support new prison 

construction, in order to make prisons more humane. The trouble is that 

prisons are a bit like highways: build them, and a great many people will 

come. It's also true that many prisoners do not serve out their full 

terms. In Texas, for example, people in noncapital cases generally serve 

only about 20 percent of their sentences, according to an American Bar 

Association report. And it's true that many felons (roughly half, 

according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics) convicted by the states are 

not imprisoned at all.<P>

These are dramatic statistics, but by themselves they're not terribly 

informative. It means little to say that convicted felons serve only a 

fraction of their sentences unless the length of their sentences is known. 

Judges may take early-release systems into account when they impose 

sentence, so that, for example, if they want someone to serve six years, 

they may sentence him to ten. And the fact that many people convicted are 

not imprisoned may be an argument for improving probationary supervision, 

not for increasing the prison population, which already stands at nearly 

one million (more than 700,000 in state prisons and the remainder in 

federal custody).<P>

"What's most scarce today aren't prison cells but nonprison supervisory 

programs," according to Mark Kleiman, a professor of public policy at the 

John F. Kennedy School of Government, at Harvard University. With three 

times as many people on probation or parole as are in prison, Kleiman 

says, "we're spending too much on the inpatients and not enough on the 

outpatients." He believes that with a few exceptions, such as the people 

who regularly commit violent crimes and the relatively small proportion of 

people who commit single crimes that shock the conscience of the 

community, convicted felons should be subject to heavily supervised 

probation and alternative sentences that stress mandatory, enforceable 

drug abstinence. "The trouble with most nonprison programs today," Kleiman 

says, "is that they're not backed up with the threat of imprisonment. I'd 

be happy to spend three billion dollars for more prison cells to use as 

backup to sanction people who don't comply with the terms of their 

probation or parole. They don't need to be imprisoned for a long time, but 

they need to be imprisoned every time they don't comply."<P>

Common sense suggests that prescribing long prison sentences for a 

relatively small proportion of offenders (which is all we can reasonably 

expect to do) will not deter potential offenders who have no expectation 

of ever being imprisoned at all. A recent report by the National Research 

Council (an offshoot of the National Academy of Sciences) estimated that 

"a 50% increase in the probability of incarceration would prevent twice as 

much violent crime as a 50% increase in the average term of 

incarceration." Of course, increasing the probability of incarceration 

would require increasing the probability of arrest and prosecution, not 

merely a reallocation of prison space. But Mark Kleiman's proposal to use 

new prisons as backup sanctions for people on probation and parole would 

at least increase the probability of imprisonment for the great number of 

"outpatients" who are already caught up in the criminal-justice system. 

The Senate proposal, which makes the allocation of prison funding 

conditional on the states' adoption of binding sentencing guidelines, 

focused instead on further increases in the length of incarceration. 

Federal lawmakers can, after all, do little to increase the efficiency of 

local police departments, prosecutors, and courts, even if they can write 

lots of strict sentencing laws.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE PRISON DEBATE</B><P>



<font size=5>L</font>engthening prison sentences is not a new idea, or one that has proved 

effective. From 1975 to 1989 the average prison time served per violent 

crime tripled, according to the NRC. And the prison population nearly 

tripled during that same period--because of an increase in sentence 

length--reflecting, in part, the increased use of mandatory minimums, not 

an increase in the chance of incarceration, which remained fairly 

constant. Violent crime declined in the early 1980s but rose in the second 

half of the decade. The NRC tentatively concluded that the increased 

imprisonment rate of the 1980s had little effect on violent crime and that 

further increases would have little effect as well. Liberals agree, 

sometimes pointing out that violent felons, like athletes, peak early and 

become less violent as they age, obviating the need for long sentences. 

Conservatives, however, argue that violent-crime rates would have soared 

during the eighties had imprisonment rates remained stable. "America would 

have been a much more dangerous place today if we hadn't built the prisons 

we built in the 1980s," says Paul McNulty, now the executive director of 

the First Freedom Coalition, a conservative lobbying group, though he 

concedes that his claim is impossible to prove--as is the liberal claim 

that increased incarceration has had no effect or a negative effect on 

crime.<P>

The prison debate is driven more by ideology than by science. Cost-benefit 

analyses of increasing prison terms are suspect, because the secondary 

costs and benefits of both victimization and imprisonment are quite 

difficult to quantify. As the NRC observed, we have only imprecise 

estimates of prison's effect on crime. We also have no rational system for 

identifying and diverting people who aren't dangerous.<P>

No more than 20 to 25 percent of the people in prison are "dangerous 

career criminals," according to the National Council on Crime and 

Delinquency. Does this mean we're imprisoning too many people, as the NCCD 

suggests? Not necessarily. Dangerousness is notoriously difficult to 

predict, and according to the NRC, most violent crimes are not committed 

by repeat violent offenders ("dangerous career criminals"); they tend, 

rather, to be occasional events in long histories of crimes against 

property.<P>

It is this problem of recidivism that most bedevils debates about prison 

policy. Conservatives and liberals agree in principle that some people in 

prison would have been more appropriately sentenced to an alternative 

correction program. They can even agree that a number of first-time, 

nonviolent offenders, particularly low-level drug offenders, should not be 

serving long mandatory minimum sentences. But they disagree about the need 

to imprison nonviolent repeat offenders. The consensus breaks down over 

recidivism, Paul McNulty confirms. He believes that with some exceptions, 

people should have only one opportunity to enjoy an alternative sentence. 

"If they waste that opportunity to obey the law," they should not, in most 

cases, receive another, he suggests. "We wouldn't raise children this 

way"--with empty threats.<P>

If you believe in imprisoning recidivists, violent or not, "you win the 

argument about building more prisons every time," McNulty adds. "Surveys 

of state prisoners show that ninety-three percent of them are either 

violent criminals or recidivists. The number of people who ought to be 

released will never be larger than the number of people who are out on the 

streets and ought to be incarcerated."<P>

But your view of who ought to be incarcerated depends on your ideology and 

your instincts about the dangers posed by nonviolent recidivists. In fact 

no one, liberal or conservative, can accurately say how many people in 

prison today would pose a danger to the community if they were released to 

strictly supervised parole, or how many would have posed less of a danger 

had they been sentenced to strictly supervised probation, including 

mandatory drug treatment and job training. The difficulty of identifying 

violent offenders is one reason that three-time-loser laws will probably 

have little overall effect on violent crime. Advocates argue that 

three-time-loser laws will decrease violence even if they apply to only a 

small percentage of offenders, because only a small percentage are 

responsible for the nation's violent crime. The trouble is, no one can say 

precisely which offenders make up that percentage.<P>

The unpredictability of dangerousness can, however, be used as an argument 

for imprisoning practically everyone or practically no one, depending on 

how the due-process rights of offenders are balanced with those safety 

interests of the community which are served by incapacitating offenders 

(putting aside questions about retribution and deterrence). In recent 

years majorities have erred on what looks like the side of safety. But in 

addition to the nearly one million people in prison, some three million 

are on probation or parole. At some point ideology and speculation about 

recidivism become academic: we're not going to imprison four million 

people forever.<P>

Occasionally Congress lapses into recognition of this--that there are 

limits to how many people we can incarcerate and for how long, just as 

there are limits to what imprisonment and other traditional law

enforcement measures can accomplish. Crime bills passed last fall in both 

the Senate and the House provided funding for drug treatment for prisoners 

and gang members, diversion and counseling programs for juveniles, and 

boot camps--perhaps the trendiest of alternative

sentencing proposals.<P>

Boot camps combine the toughness on crime traditionally demanded by 

conservatives with traditional liberal expressions of compassion and an 

all-American belief in self-improvement through discipline and work. 

Historically, work has been viewed as character-building and has played an 

important role in the development of penal systems; it can symbolize both 

repentance and restitution to the community. The Senate allocated $3 

billion for boot camps in what was presented as one of its more 

progressive anti-crime votes. Progressives, however, along with 

researchers, are a bit skeptical about the prospects for boot camps.<P>

Ronald Hampton, a police officer in Washington, D.C., and the executive 

director of the National Black Police Association, observes that boot 

camps work for the military because people graduate from them into the 

military, with jobs to perform, rules to obey, and a disciplinary system 

to fear. Inmates of civilian boot camps will graduate into anarchy. Nor do 

boot camps work for everyone in the military, Hampton adds. Some people 

don't prosper in the service. "That doesn't mean they're not good 

citizens; it just means they're not good soldiers," he says. In fact, 

outcome studies of civilian boot camps have been discouraging: their rates 

of recidivism are no lower than the prisons' rates. Boot camps may pose 

particular problems for the juveniles they're intended to help if they 

allow for the mingling of juvenile and adult offenders. There is also 

concern that the quasi-abusive environment of boot camps will be 

counterproductive for young offenders with histories of familial abuse. As 

Mark Kleiman puts it, "If pushing these people around and screaming at 

them were therapeutic for them, they wouldn't be in boot camp."<P>

Misgivings about boot camps expressed by people who study them and others 

who work with young offenders, however, are dismissed by politicians who 

establish them. In the view of John Laub, a professor of criminal justice 

at Northeastern University, political enthusiasm for boot camps 

exemplifies the futility of research on criminal-justice issues. Knowledge 

isn't power in criminal-justice debates; knowledge is irrelevant. 

Politicians who support boot camps rely on "gut instincts" or "intuition" 

or fond memories of their own military experiences.<P>

"This is why what we do doesn't matter," Laub says, pointing to Georgia 

Governor Zell Miller's proud proclamation of his intention to ignore 

research on boot camps. "Nobody can tell me from some ivory tower that you 

take a kid, you kick him in the rear end, and it doesn't do any good," 

Miller told The New York Times. "I don't give a damn what they say."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>OUR DOUBLE STANDARD OF ACCOUNTABILITY</B><P>



<font size=5>P</font>rotesting the influence of politics on policy, you feel a little like 

Claude Rains protesting gambling at Rick's. Still, it's hard not to be 

shocked-

shocked!--by the utter politicization of criminal-justice debates. These 

are case studies in demagoguery. Informed debates among elites about 

public-safety issues seem more than usually irrelevant to public opinion. 

Politicians profess to believe what they must know is not true.<P>

How are most citizens apt to learn about the criminal-justice system? Amy 

Fisher docudramas, TV cop shows and crime stories, and talk-show palaver 

about sensational cases seem to be primary sources of "information" for 

people who are spared firsthand experience with corrections and courts. 

The most attention is paid to the least typical cases. The acquittal in 

the Lorena Bobbitt case and the hung juries in the Menendez cases were 

followed by weeks of public hand-wringing about the "abuse excuse." We've 

become too tolerant of criminal behavior, people said, which must have 

come as a surprise to the roughly 2,800 people on death row and the petty 

offenders with drug habits, long untreated, who may be subject to life 

imprisonment as three-time losers. Jurors, and a large segment of the 

public which ordinarily objectifies less sensational defendants, seemed to 

empathize with Lorena Bobbitt and the Menendez brothers, treating them 

with great leniency. That is perhaps what was most remarkable about these 

cases. In general, as the intense demand for harsh, punitive sentencing 

shows, we're more likely to hold defendants to standards of accountability 

higher than those we'd apply to ourselves.<P>

This is rarely recognized as hypocrisy. Many people who haven't been 

criminally prosecuted or endured the prosecution of a friend or family 

member tend to regard criminals as "the other." This unwillingness or 

inability to admit their humanity is facilitated by the anonymity of the 

vast majority of defendants, whose cases aren't televised; by the 

increasing senselessness of random violence (it's hard to empathize with a 

sociopath); and by the awful demographics of crime: the disproportionate 

involvement of black males in violent crime makes it easy for criminal 

defendants to be objectified by whites who fear being victimized and don't 

consider the fact that crime tends to be intraracial (that is, blacks are 

disproportionately represented as victims, too).<P>

Our double standard of accountability becomes particularly clear when 

popular notions of criminal justice are compared with popular notions of 

personal development, which dominated the Bobbitt and Menendez cases. If 

you argue for leniency in a typical, uncelebrated criminal case, pointing 

out that the defendant suffered abuse in childhood or that the crime 

resulted from some post-traumatic stress disorder, you're likely to be 

dismissed as a bleeding-heart liberal. "We're tired of Twinkie defenses. 

No one takes responsibility for himself anymore," people say. Meanwhile, 

millions of Americans are complaining about their own histories of 

addiction and abuse, refusing to take responsibility for their own bad 

behavior. Many of us want most people charged with serious crimes to be 

considered actors, absolutely, so that we can punish them absolutely 

without qualms, but we often consider ourselves to be acted upon.<P>

If only guilt and innocence were so clear and simple and absolute, instead 

of merely relative. Of course, all of us are the victims or beneficiaries 

of forces we never controlled, accidents of upbringing or birth; 

ultimately, none of us are absolutely responsible for our characters or 

our actions. But at some point we must assume and assign responsibility. 

At some point we must treat ourselves and one another as if our crimes 

were indeed our fault.<P>

Sometimes we have to pass judgment on others, with modesty and reluctance, 

knowing that our judgments are flawed. That is one of the fearful 

necessities of a civilized society. Today, in general, we alternate 

between judging too harshly--condemning people to life sentences or death 

with an arrogant belief in our own righteousness--and not judging at all. 

Watch the talk shows and the cases on Court TV and then spend a few days 

in the criminal courts: they make clear that we lack a consistent, nuanced 

notion of moral agency, an ethic of relative accountability. How can we 

claim a sense of justice?<P>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1994 by Wendy Kaminer.  All rights reserved.  <br>



The Atlantic Monthly; June 1994; Federal Offense; Volume 273, No. 6; 

pages 102-114.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-31</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B030-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/facingf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117190756 text/html 55119
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:07:40 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:06 GMT
Content-length: 54913
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>Facing Up</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>October 1993</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





Facing Up</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by Peter G. Peterson</font></center>

<p><br><br><p>



<p>



<blockquote>



<i><font size=4>The cause of our huge budget

deficits is not government waste or welfare programs for the poor--it's the

out-of-control spending on welfare programs (called "entitlements") for the

middle and upper classes. President Clinton's plan barely makes a dent in this

spending.</i></font><p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>E</font><font size=3>arly on in his presidential campaign Bill Clinton talked about the need for

Americans to pull together and "sacrifice." Later, in a State of the Union

address remarkable for its candor, he spoke to a raptly attentive nation about

how our ballooning federal deficits cloud our economic future. That was a

subject George Bush had found worthy of mention only once in his 5,000-word

State of the Union address the year before. The budget plan that Bill Clinton

then delivered to Congress not only used real numbers instead of rosy

scenarios; it shattered some paralyzing dogmas. The nonsense that we could put

our fiscal house in order without new taxes was laid to rest. Especially

commendable was the President's opening the door to energy taxes, which not

only raise revenues but also represent a means to curb a particularly toxic

kind of consumption. Even Social Security, our ultimate sacred cow, was put on

the budget-cutting table--if only at the table's edge. After years of empty

"Morning in America" and "Don't Worry, Be Happy" rhetoric, all of this was

welcome--even intoxicating--to us deficit hawks.<p>



<p>



<p>



But in the end the actual sacrifice called for under the Clinton plan is so

mild and selective that it can hardly be said to address our long-term economic

challenges. The President's new taxes on the "rich" turned out to spare almost

entirely a much enlarged but fiscally misnamed middle class, excluding all but

the top one percent of U.S. tax filers. Despite all the talk of draconian

sacrifice, the Clinton plan's proposed energy tax amounted to little more than

a flea bite. As for entitlements, the thing that mattered most, the President

barely managed to crimp their growth. From 1993 to 2004 federal benefit

spending under the original Clinton plan, which, in its handling of

entitlements and its overall budget savings, differs only in detail from what

Congress approved, would have soared by some $730 billion--as compared with

$790 billion under the Congressional Budget Office's business-as-usual baseline

scenario.<p>



<p>



<p>



Without much broader sacrifice--and a presidential vision that truly explains

its purpose and inspires us to consume less today for a better tomorrow--we

will never cure America's economic ills.<p>



<p>



<p>



The Clinton plan doesn't come close to balancing the budget, even in the near

term. According to the numbers developed by the White House itself, if the

President's entire original budget package had been passed and implemented, by

1997 the federal deficit would have declined by only $140 billion from what it

otherwise would have been. That would put it at $206 billion, or 2.7 percent of

gross domestic product--just a smidgen under where it was (3.0 percent of GDP)

in 1989 before the recession began. If 2.7 percent of GDP doesn't seem like a

lot, consider that in 1992 a deficit that size would have soaked up about half

of U.S. net private savings. And consider also that about three quarters of the

spending cuts that the President has proposed for 1994 to 1998--modest as they

are--are only to take place after the 1996 election, which, of course, raises

the risk that they will not materialize at all.<p>



<p>



<p>



After 1997 the federal deficit will once again begin to rise rapidly. Under the

impact of continued growth in entitlement spending, by 2004 it will have

climbed to about $465 billion, or 4.6 percent of GDP. As the Baby Boom

generation begins to reach retirement age in the years that follow, a General

Accounting Office study indicates, the deficit could then soar to an

unthinkable 21 percent of GNP in the year 2020, when today's toddlers are

starting to raise their own families.<p>



<p>



<p>



Economists disagree on many things, but almost none would disagree that it is

essential not to let our public debt grow faster than the economy. Yet under

the Clinton plan public debt is on track to grow far faster than the economy.

Today public debt is already at a higher level--55 percent of GDP--than it has

been at any other time since the mid-1950s, when we were still paying off the

costs of the Second World War. Because the Clinton budget plan leaves on the

table a full two thirds of deficits previously projected for 1993-2004, public

debt will grow to about 65 percent of GDP by the end of that period. And along

with the debt, needless to say, federal interest costs will soar.<p>



<p>



<p>



Considering how ravenously a large deficit consumes national savings--and

Clinton has spoken eloquently about this--and how important the availability of

savings is to making the future-oriented investments that Clinton says he wants

(and that America surely needs), how can we possibly justify short-term

tweaking of the deficit in lieu of radical surgery to balance the budget?<p>



<p>



<p>



I have asked the Clinton people this question. One answer they offer is that

the volcanic eruption of red ink projected for after 1997 will never occur,

owing to steps they will take to control that most intractable force driving

our deficits--exploding health-care costs.<p>



<p>



<p>



The President is certainly right to go after health care. This is where much of

deficit reduction must occur. But as to whether Bill Clinton will find his

hoped-for health-care savings, I am more than a bit skeptical. As Charles

Schultze, a former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, put it, "God

couldn't design a program" that will achieve net savings in health care in the

near term. The President, after all, is proposing that we spend <i>more</i> on health

care--according to some, as much as $100 billion to $150 billion annually in

new public and private benefits, much of it picked up by the federal

government. In the longer term achieving real savings elsewhere in health care

will require real sacrifices--including, ultimately, selective rationing of

high-cost, low-benefit medical technologies and services. But the

Administration isn't preparing the American people for such sacrifices. Until

it does, it won't be able to come up with enough health-care savings to offset

the cost of the benefit expansions we are now talking about, much less

contribute to overall deficit reduction.<p>



<p>



<p>



Bill Clinton warned of an economic Armageddon if we fail to change course--but

then all he was able to give us to cure our economy's ills was a few teaspoons

of syrupy medicine.<p>



<p>



<p>



What happened? The President, according to senior aides, kept asking, "What is

politically feasible? I do not want this to be another budget that is D.O.A."

In the end his political advisers told him he couldn't ask for sacrifice where

he had to--from the great American middle class. Let me now speak the unpopular

truths that I am sure the President knows but believes are too politically

dangerous to act upon. Let me turn to the problem of the great American middle

class--and the absolutely essential role it must play in shared national

sacrifice if we are to reclaim our future.<p>



<p>



<p>



<br><b>The Brutal Truth</b><p>



<p>



If you listen carefully to most economists and policy experts today, a

consensus emerges about the magnitude of America's economic challenges and what

sorts of reforms will be necessary to overcome them.<p>



<p>



<p>



In particular, most would agree with the following: (1) To get American living

standards rising again, we must increase productivity growth. (2) To boost

productivity we must invest more--much, much more--not just in machines but in

research and development, in infrastructure, and in people. Making the new

investments we need if we are again to know the kind of rising living standards

we remember from the 1950s and 1960s will require a lot of money. Many, myself

included, think that at least $400 billion a year in new investments is needed

in order to boost our rate of investment back toward our long-term historical

average and put us in the ballpark of what other major industrial countries are

now managing to invest. (3) This in turn means that we must save much, much

more--at least $400 billion a year more (4) The surest and fastest way to

increase our savings is to reduce and eventually eliminate the federal deficit,

which is really just a form of negative public savings. (5) To reduce the

deficit and keep it down we must make major cuts in consumption spending, and

in particular in entitlements. But this, alas, requires us to confront a brutal

question: If we are to save more by consuming less, whose consumption growth do

we propose to cut?<p>



<p>



<p>



It's at this point that agreement on what needs to be done, while not exactly

breaking down, comes face to face with a truth that remains politically

inexpressible. That truth is that the problem is all of us. <i>Most

Americans--emphatically including the middle class--will have to give something

up, at least temporarily, to get back our American Dream.</i><p>



<p>



<p>



We all remember the slogan that came out of the Clinton campaign: "It's the

economy, stupid." Well, when it comes to the budget, the watchword ought to be

"It's entitlements, stupid." From Social Security and Medicare to the vast tax

favors for home-mortgage interest and employer-paid health insurance (policy

wonks call these benefitlike subsidies in our tax code "tax expenditures"),

consumption-oriented spending dominates the budget today. And the explosive

growth of these entitlements will continue to rob our future. The budget

arithmetic is inescapable: we just can't get the spending cuts we need from

anywhere but entitlements. As big as it is, even defense spending isn't big

enough. We could shut down the Pentagon tomorrow and still not balance the

budget. Nor can we count on saving much on our huge interest bill unless we

first reduce other types of spending. Interest on the national debt is

something that we must pay to avoid a devastating financial panic--and it keeps

growing as our national debt grows, just as it would fall if we began to attack

the deficit. The rest of what government does represents just pennies out of

the overall budget dollar.<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>

<b>The Cost of Entitlements</b><p>



<p>



Let's define some key terms and look at some key facts about entitlements.

"Entitlements" are any public-sector payments, received by a person or a

household, that do not represent contractual compensation for goods or

services. This definition obviously excludes large portions of the federal

budget, from defense procurement to interest on the national debt to purchases

designed for America's collective benefit (such as highway construction). But

it includes nearly everything else--most notably such dominating fixtures of

the American political landscape as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, food

stamps, unemployment compensation, veterans' benefits, and farm aid, to say

nothing of our lavish federal pension systems.<p>



<p>



<p>



The most striking single fact about entitlements is their vast cost. Over the

course of fiscal year 1993 the U.S. Treasury will have mailed out benefit

checks (directly to individuals or to state agencies and insurance companies

that administer benefits) totaling some $800 billion, or about one eighth of

our nation's GDP. That amounts to more than half (53.5 percent) of the entire

federal budget--or about $6 million every minute of every working day, flowing

to one out of two American households. These figures, moreover, include only

direct outlays from the federal budget. The numbers would be even larger if we

included tax expenditures. If we count them and add the cost of administering

entitlement programs--as many economists argue we should in order to get the

full picture--federal entitlements now amount to more than $1 trillion annually

and flow to well over three quarters of all U.S. households.<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>

<b>Ten Myths About Entitlements</b><p>



<p>



Myths about entitlements are everywhere. They are used--and abused--in the

political dialogue in ways that seem to make reasoned debate and reasonable

reforms impossible. Let's look at ten of the most common myths.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>1. Most federal social spending goes to the poor.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



It is important to remember what entitlements have done to reduce poverty.

Before the New Deal millions of Americans had no means of support in the event

of unemployment, disability, unexpected retirement, or the death of a parent or

spouse. Vast numbers of children grew up in destitute families. At great cost

to society and the economy, millions of workers could fall into poverty and

never recover. In 1937 President Franklin D. Roosevelt could say, "I see one

third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-nourished." Today entitlements

prevent some 20 million Americans (half of them elderly) from falling into

poverty.<p>



<p>



<p>



This is clearly all to the good. However, keeping people out of poverty is not

the purpose toward which most entitlement spending is directed. In reality,

only about one out of eight federal dollars of social spending serves to lift

poor families above the poverty line. Only about one out of four federal

benefit dollars even flows through a program that uses financial need as a

criterion for eligibility. Counting both direct benefits and the value of

entitlements conveyed through the tax code, the aggregate amounts received by

people above the national median income are simply staggering. In 1991 nearly

half of all entitlements went to households with incomes over $30,000. One

quarter went to households with incomes over $50,000.<p>



<p>



<b>2. Entitlement spending helps to equalize incomes by giving more to the poor

than to the rich.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Few axioms of American political life find such uncritical acceptance as the

belief that social-welfare programs effect a dramatic redistribution of wealth

in favor of low-income households. It apparently makes little difference that

most experts, liberal and conservative alike, have never subscribed to this

axiom--and that recent data repudiate it altogether.<p>



<p>



<p>



Back in the sixties the Nobel laureate economist Milton Friedman used to shock

audiences by asserting that Social Security was actually a regressive

program--since the program's mildly progressive benefit formula compensated

neither for its regressive payroll tax nor for the fact that the poor pay taxes

over more years (since they tend to start working at a younger age) and receive

benefits over fewer years (since they tend also to die at a younger age). Most

economists found Friedman's analysis at least plausible; no one has yet

disproved it. More recently the celebrated political scientist Mancur Olson

looked over the panoply of American entitlement programs and concluded:<p>



<p>

<blockquote>

<p>



"Most of the redistribution of government is not from upper-income and

middle-income people to low-income people. Most of the redistribution of income

in fact is from middle-income people to other middle-income people, or from the

whole of society to particular groups of rich people, or from one group to

another where the groups are distinguished not by one being poor and the other

being rich, but only by the fact that some groups are organized and some are

not."</blockquote><p>



<p>



<p>



Income data from the Congressional Budget Office tend to bear out Olson's

critique. Total federal benefits to the affluent are at least as substantial as

those to the needy. Among Social Security beneficiaries, for instance,

households with incomes of $100,000 or more receive, on average, checks that

are twice as large as those of households with incomes of less than $10,000.

Even when we add in the cash and in-kind benefits disbursed by all of the other

federal sources for which we have income data--including "means-tested" welfare

and food stamps--we find that households in the top bracket ($100,000 and up)

received an average of about $5,700 in 1991, slightly more than the average of

$5,600 received by households in the bottom bracket (under $10,000).<p>



<p>



<p>



But direct federal payments are not the only way in which the federal

government distributes benefits. We also have to take tax expenditures into

account. These loopholes, designed to favor certain households and bearing no

relationship to ability to pay, are the fiscal and economic equivalent of a

government check. Most tax expenditures are unquestionably regressive: many

poor households cannot qualify for them--and even when they do, what they

receive is smaller, relative to their income, than what the affluent get. This

year, for example, the Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that

the average value of the home-mortgage interest deduction for taxpayers with

incomes over $100,000 is $3,453 and that the same deduction is worth an average

of only $478 for taxpayers in the $20,000 to $30,000 bracket. Even these

figures include only those who qualified for the benefit. They exclude many

low-income families, including renters and those who opted for the standard

deduction, who do not qualify.<p>



<p>



<p>



When we add together all the direct-benefit outlays and all the tax

expenditures, an unambiguous picture emerges. On average, a household with an

income under $10,000 collected roughly $5,700 in 1991. On average, a household

with an income over $100,000 collected $9,300. This distribution of benefits by

income became more--not less--skewed during the 1980s. Clearly, it has nothing

to do with economic equality. Let's phrase the issue a bit more bluntly. If the

federal government's purpose were to straighten out the national income

distribution, it would do a better job if it dispensed with all the

programmatic rules and simply scattered all the money by airplane over every

population center, to be gathered at random by passers-by.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>3. Social Security and Medicare are an earned right: beneficiaries are only

getting back what they paid in.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Here the case is open and shut. Most currently retired Americans receive Social

Security benefits that are two to five times greater than the actuarial value

of prior contributions, by both employer and employee. The payback for the

Medicare Hospital Insurance program is five to twenty times greater. A typical

middle-income couple who retired in 1981 have already received back, with

interest, not only the total actuarial value of their previous Social Security

and Medicare taxes but also the total value of their lifetime federal income

taxes.<p>



<p>



<p>



And these calculations of actuarial value are conservative. They assume that

employer contributions "belong" to the beneficiary and that the public must

guarantee a "market" interest rate on all contributions, no matter what the

condition of the economy or the wages of those who are taxed to make good on

this claim. In fact, the Social Security Administration keeps no direct record

of how much each person contributes. It just keeps records of each person's

wage history, to which a politically determined formula is applied when that

person retires.<p>



<p>



<p>



The politically potent and disingenuous language adopted by the Social Security

Administration has contributed to the earned-right myth. The system is

described as an "insurance" program, although it is nothing of the sort.

References are made to contributors' "accounts," when no such accounts exist.<p>



<p>



<p>



My father, helped along by years of such misleading nomenclature, went to his

grave thinking that he was simply getting back his money, by which he meant

what he had put into his "account" over the years. Since by this logic the

benefits belonged to him, any proposal to take any of them away was both unjust

and immoral. In truth, it was as though the government had a moral obligation

to provide a windfall forever. He could only wonder why his otherwise

well-educated son thought differently. I could never persuade him. It would

have depressed him to find out that in fact there was no Social Security

savings account in Washington with George Peterson's name on it.<p>



<p>



<p>



Nor would I have wanted to depress him further with other unpleasant facts

about entitlements. My father was immensely supportive of my wife's work in

behalf of poor children at the Children's Television Workshop. He would have

been distressed to learn that in 1986, the last year of his life, the nation

was told that it could not afford to fund fully the much-admired Head Start

program. Yet merely the increases in Social Security's cost-of-living

adjustments that year would have fully funded Head Start. Had he known the

facts, I am confident he would have been happy to give up his sliver of the

huge entitlement pie for such a worthy cause.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>4. The elderly, as a group, are poorer than young Americans.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



In reality, the 1990 official poverty rate among the over-sixty-five population

was 12 percent, as compared with 21 percent among children. When we include the

value of all noncash benefits as income, the poverty rate for the elderly is

six percent, as against 15 percent for children. On this latter basis poor

children outnumber the poor elderly in America by more than five to one. In no

other major industrial nation is the poverty rate for children (using identical

definitions) anywhere near what it is in the United States.<p>



<p>



<p>



Children are the truly needy in our society, but they certainly don't get most

of the public money. In 1990 of all direct federal benefits 63 percent went to

the 13 percent of all Americans over age sixty-five, while nine percent went to

the 26 percent of all Americans under age eighteen. On a per capita basis, and

including all federal outlays that might be called "child benefits," from

education to immunization, the ratio of average benefits received was eleven to

one $13,8930 to each elderly person and $1,271 to each child. Even adding in

everything spent by state and local governments (on schools, for instance), the

ratio still favors the elderly by at least three to one.<p>



<p>



<p>



Some argue that entitlements for the elderly merely substitute for transfers of

wealth that the young would otherwise make to their parents. That might be true

if these programs weren't so lavish. Before Social Security and Medicare, young

families did sacrifice for older parents--if and when Mom and Pop were in need.

Yet because today's retirees are, as a whole, wealthier than the young, adults

aged twenty-five to thirty-four now report receiving from their parents twenty

times more support than they give to them; even for adults thirty-five to

forty-four, the ratio is five to one. Social Security and Medicare, far from

embodying traditional family values, have turned them on their head.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>5. Social Security is building up a huge surplus that will be available to pay

for benefits promised to Baby Boomers.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



It is true that Social Security receipts from payroll withholding taxes

currently paid into the retirement part of the Social Security system (not the

health-care or Medicare part) are higher than Social Security expenditures, and

will probably remain so until the Baby Boomers start retiring in large numbers.

But this surplus is temporary. What is more, the funds are not being saved or

invested. Instead they are being used to help offset each year's overall

federal budget deficit. Thus these surpluses are transformed into debts held by

the Social Security trust funds. Future taxpayers will become liable for the

principal and interest.<p>



<p>



Let's peer into the future to see what the real financial status of our old-age

benefit programs is. In assessing their solvency actuaries tally up what are

known as unfunded liabilities--the amounts (in this year's discounted dollars)

by which future benefits promised to today's adults exceed all their future

payroll taxes plus the assets currently held in all the government's relevant

"trust funds." The federal government's unfunded liabilities<p>



for just four programs--Social Security, Medicare, and federal civil-service

and military retirement--come to about $14 trillion. That's a sum several times

larger than the national debt, and one equivalent to roughly $140,000 for every

household. This is a system in surplus?<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>6. Today's younger Americans will eventually receive the same health and

pension benefits they are providing today's retirees.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Recently the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on likely paybacks to

various generations. No expert disagreed on the trend (an unusual fact in

itself): the earliest beneficiaries got by far the best deal, and the deal has

been getting worse for each successive generation. By some calculations some

upper-income single males retiring this year may get less out of Social

Security than they put in.<p>



<p>



<p>



Moreover, financing even the reduced returns that are promised to tomorrow's

retirees is unlikely to be economically or politically sustainable as America

ages. The Social Security Administration projects that, depending on

demographic and economic trends, the cost of Social Security and Medicare will

by 2040 rise to between 38 percent and 53 percent of payroll--unless we cut

benefits. I believe the only real question is when, not whether, we will change

course. We can make modest, fair-share sacrifices now. Or we can make wrenching

changes later, amid economic crisis and, as Paul Tsongas would say,

intergenerational war. The choice is not just economic but also moral. I can

imagine few ethical principles more important than fairness toward our

children.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>7. Retirement benefits are an "inviolable contract" between the generations.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



No, Virginia, there is no sacred contract, at least not according to the U.S.

Supreme Court, which has repeatedly ruled that no covered worker retains any

rights, contractual or otherwise, over taxes paid into the Social Security

system. Perhaps I may be permitted a layman's less lofty legal opinion. As I

recall (from a college course in commercial law), one fundamental requirement

of a valid contract is a "meeting of the minds" of the parties to the contract:

between those who pay and those who receive. But no such meeting of the minds

exists. I am not aware that anyone has consulted my grandson, Peter Cary, now

aged three, about the staggering tax rates that our current entitlement

"contracts" will require him to pay when he enters the work force.<p>



<p>



<p>



Simply repeating "inviolable contract," "mandatory," "nondiscretionary,"

"uncontrollable" payments, or some other disingenuous mantra does not change

certain truths. What Congress mindlessly gives can be taken away. A fundamental

reality is that the current system is not sustainable. If Social Security (or

Medicare) is a contract, it is an unenforceable one.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>8. Tax breaks for health insurance primarily benefit people who otherwise could

not afford proper health care.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Maybe this one isn't really a myth, but the regressivity of our subsidies to

privately paid health care is too shocking not to mention. In 1994 exempting

employer-paid health insurance from taxes will cost the U.S. Treasury about $75

billion. Needless to say, of the 35 million or so Americans without health

insurance, who receive zero benefits from this huge tax break, most are poor or

low-income citizens. Among households that do have insurance, those with the

highest incomes and the most generous insurance plans receive several times as

much from this federal tax subsidy as those with low incomes and a

cost-conscious HMO.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>9. The federal government's major housing entitlement, the home-mortgage

interest deduction, promotes homeownership and stimulates the economy.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



In 1994 the cost of the home-mortgage interest deduction in lost revenues to

the federal Treasury will be $46 billion, 80 percent of which will go directly

to households with incomes over $50,000. The main economic effect of the

home-mortgage deduction is to inflate the price (and size) of homes, while

diverting investment away from more productive sectors of the economy.<p>



<p>



<p>



Our global competitors, who hear us publicly rail about our investment-starved

economy and the stagnation of our productivity, politely ask what conceivable

connection this tax subsidy for the relatively well off has with enhancing

productivity. Officials in Canada regularly chide me about the fact that Canada

has the same rate of homeownership as the United States without the benefit of

this tax subsidy.<p>



<p>



<p>



Why, then, do we have it? The answer, of course, does not lie in any real

economic imperative. The subsidy exists because we all think we deserve it.

What's more, it props up one of our most powerful special interests: the

real-estate lobby.<p>



<p>



<p>



<b>10. The only reason that Ronald Reagan could not keep his promise to shrink the

size of government was the huge rise in defense spending.</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Judging by the cheers of his supporters and the jeers of his critics, we might

suppose that President Ronald Reagan cut everything but defense. And judging by

the similar partisan bickering over the policies of his successor, George Bush,

we might suppose that the "welfare state" was the victim of further slashing

and hacking for another four years after Reagan stepped down.<p>



<p>



<p>



But the reality is very different: the cost of all direct federal benefits

today ($807 billion in fiscal year 1993) is considerably greater than the

entire federal Budget that existed when Reagan first took office ($696 billion

in fiscal year 1981). In fact, adjusted for inflation, federal benefits soared

by 54 percent from 1981 to 1993--while all other domestic spending showed zero

real growth, and defense, the one area where everyone supposed the Reagan and

Bush Administrations had gone hog-wild, showed real growth of only 15

percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



Contrary to popular impressions, the advent of the Reagan-Bush era did not

signal a decisive shift in entitlement policy. With the exception of the 1983

Social Security amendments (designed by a bipartisan commission), both

Presidents left non-means-tested outlays and tax expenditures--that is, most

entitlements--on autopilot. Thus the Reagan-Bush years only reaffirmed that

these vast middle- and upper-class entitlements were politically

"uncontrollable"--a weasel word behind which Congress and the President can

hide their unwillingness to act, since together they can control any spending

they want.<p>



<p>



<p>



<br><b>The Middle Class: The Third Rail of American Politics</b><p>



<p>



 The middle class is at the heart of our budget problem--and must be at the

heart of the solution. Taken together, the major benefit programs for which we

have income data on recipients--spending roughly 80 percent of total federal

benefit dollars, and including everything from Social Security and Medicare to

AFDC and food stamps--deliver 99 percent of their benefits ($529 billion in

1991) to the 99 percent of American households with incomes under $200,000.

This is the upper boundary of what President Clinton has for political

convenience defined as the "middle class." (The income-tax increases proposed

by the Clinton Administration begin at $140,000 of taxable income, the number

most people have heard quoted. But that's really equivalent to about $200,000

of adjusted gross income from all sources.)<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet 43 percent of such benefit dollars ($227 billion in 1991) go to households

that cannot possibly be considered poor: those with incomes between $30,000 and

$200,000. And note that the absolute dollar figure surely understates the total

since it reflects only 80 percent of all benefit dollars. What about the

remaining 20 percent? We cannot be sure. Some of it flows through programs such

as Medicaid, which mostly benefit lower-income households; some, too, flows

through programs such as student loans, farm aid, and veterans' health care,

which disproportionately benefit upper-income households. All told, it would be

safe to assume that total federal benefit outlays reaching the

$30,000-to-$200,000 income bracket amounted to at least $265 billion in 1991.<p>



<p>



<p>



And what about our ocean of so-called tax expenditures--the subtle subsidies

that help the wealthy borrow huge sums for home mortgages and take unlimited

health-care deductions? More than two thirds go to tax filers with incomes

between $30,000 and $200,000. Just seven percent go to the Americans whom the

President calls "rich."<p>



<p>



<p>



The top-earning one percent of Americans, it's true, receive 13 percent of all

income in the United States. Going after the rich to help balance the budget is

fine--as far as it goes. Unlike some of my Wall Street colleagues, I see

absolutely nothing wrong with imposing higher tax burdens on the wealthiest in

our society. But it does not require any arcane knowledge of fiscal arithmetic

to see that even with the substantial tax increases proposed by the Clinton

plan, trying to balance the budget is quite literally impossible on such a

narrow stretch of income territory. In fact, to meet this goal by the year 2000

by taxing the "rich," we would need to tax away all the taxable income of

everyone with more than $175,000 of adjusted gross income. Or, if we would

prefer a less draconian approach, we could merely double the income taxes of

"affluent" tax filers--but we would need to include everyone down to about

$50,000 of income. Even this kinder and gentler approach would amount to

something more like expropriation--hardly consistent with either free markets

or democracy.<p>



<p>



<p>



As for direct entitlement benefits, here too not much help is available from

the rich. The maximum entitlement savings obtainable from the one percent of

households enjoying incomes of more than $200,000 are unfortunately limited to

the benefits that go to them--about $5 billion if we took away all their

benefits (something that even Bill Clinton, with his laser beam on the rich,

has never dreamed of suggesting).<p>



<p>



<p>



But if we are willing to ask for even modest sacrifices from all Americans with

incomes above about $30,000, the picture changes entirely. Suddenly we're

talking about a whopping 73 percent of national household income. We're also

talking about a stunning 74 percent of all tax expenditures and 43 percent of

major federal entitlement benefits, which, taken together--and including our

estimate for all benefits--amounted to $372 billion in 1991. That's a sum we

simply cannot afford to ignore if we are at all serious about putting our

fiscal house in order.<p>



<p>



<p>



Twelve years ago, when Ronald Reagan ascended to the White Louse, I hoped that

his politically candid talk about cutting the budget deficit would lead to

politically courageous action. But instead we found a convenient scapegoat. The

"poor," we learned, were bankrupting America. Just eliminate the "waste, fraud,

and abuse" in our welfare system--all those mink-wearing welfare queens driving

Cadillacs and buying vodka at taxpayers' expense--and a balanced budget would

be in reach. The premise, of course, was wrong from the beginning. Despite cuts

in programs for the poorest Americans during the Reagan years, the deficit kept

exploding.<p>



<p>



<p>



When Bill Clinton ascended to the White House, I was once again hopeful that

the President would seize the moment and make the tough choices needed to cut

the deficit and boost savings and investment. But we seem to be caught up in

another form of scapegoating. This time it's not the poor who are to blame;

it's the rich who are not paying their way.<p>



<p>



<p>



To be sure, President Clinton will get further with his scapegoat than

President Reagan did with his. But both ways of dodging tough choices veer away

from the heart of the problem. We are all implicated in our budget deficits,

our entitlement ethos, and the overall consumption bias in our economy. And all

of us most particularly the broad middle class that is the backbone of America,

must now be part of the solution.<p>



<p>



<p>



Let's pause for a moment to ask ourselves, what in reality is the "middle

class"? Ask any American if he or she is "middle class," and the answer will

almost always be yes. The truly poor will admit to being "lower middle class,"

and the rich will go along with "upper middle class," but few will forthrightly

call themselves "poor" or "rich." This is a characteristically American

self-perception, and it reflects our desire to live in a basically egalitarian

society. But in recent years it has allowed nonpoor Americans to believe that

they deserve universal federal entitlements--much of them windfalls--such as

Social Security and Medicare, which are often disingenuously called

"insurance," and which people mistakenly think of as the payback on their

contributions to "their accounts."<p>



<p>



<p>



Next, ask any group of Americans to specify the annual income that defines

"middle class" and you'll hear responses ranging from, say, $20,000 all the way

up to $200,000--if we include the Clinton Administration's definition. But

there are more precise and realistic definitions. If nontaxable entitlement

benefits and other tax-exempt income are included with adjusted gross income

reported to the IRS, the median family in the United States had a total

adjusted gross income of $31,700 in 1993. If "middle class" is then narrowly

defined as comprising half of all American families equally distributed around

that $31,700 family, the statistical middle-class income turns out to range

from $14,040 to $55,880.<p>



<p>



<p>



This exposition regularly startles those who are new to it. A family with

$60,000 of income invariably thinks of itself as "just getting by," but it

actually stands in the top quarter of families. A two-earner family with an

income of $120,000 may think of itself as just middle class. In fact that

two-earner family stands in the top five percent of American families. By the

time we reach those with incomes in excess of $200,000--the only households

targeted for significant sacrifices by the Clinton Administration's

proposals--we are left with a mere statistical sliver of the population:

roughly one percent.<p>



<p>



Middle-class Americans today, it seems, suffer from what might be called a

"reverse Lake Wobegon" syndrome. As Garrison Keillor fans know, Lake Wobegon is

a wonderful fictional place where all the children are above average. When it

comes to incomes, however, most middle-class Americans, trying hard to make

ends meet, assume they must be below average.<p>



<p>



<p>



Middle-class Americans today feel hard pressed and beleaguered--and they are.

Nobody could possibly argue that even a well-above-the-median $50,000 a year in

household income will put one on easy street. It's hard to make it on a typical

middle-class income today--when paychecks barely keep up with the cost of

homes, of college educations and even of necessities.<p>



<p>



<p>



Working hard and trying to follow the rules, middle-class Americans have

adopted a kind of siege mentality in the face of evaporating expectations about

fixture income growth. The middle class is already making a de facto and

unplanned sacrifice in terms of the loss of upward mobility. But an organized,

planned, and temporary additional sacrifice can reverse that trend. Only if we

all give up something to reinvest in our future will we be able to rekindle the

rise in U.S. living standards. If we all just hunker down to protect what we

feel we're entitled to, we will condemn ourselves to a future that grows

bleaker each year. Evaporating and diminished expectations are not what America

is about. The willingness of middle-class citizens to sacrifice a little today

for a better tomorrow is, however, exactly what America used to be about and

ought to be about once again.<p>



<p>



<p>



In spite of the recent stagnation of its living standards, the American middle

class is still the world's richest middle class, consuming far more than any of

its counterparts in Europe or Japan--and paying far lower taxes than most.

Indeed, Americans may think themselves overtaxed, but we pay some 10 to 20

percent less of our national income in taxes than do the citizens of most other

industrialized countries. The actual economic room for sacrifice exists; what

we are missing is the public understanding and the political will to recognize

such sacrifices as being in our long-term best interests.<p>



<p>



<p>



We can't, of course, call on the middle class alone to sacrifice. The rich must

pay their fuller and fairer share. Many of the same people who argue that the

middle class is too beleaguered to contribute to solving our economic problems

stand by silently as the $30,000-a-year middle-class worker pays

ever-increasing payroll taxes (which in many cases come to more than his or her

income taxes) to subsidize the entitlement benefits of retirees who are getting

ten times their contributions in Medicare payments (tax-free) and who may be

earning $100,000 or more a year in retirement. This is unconscionable.<p>



<p>



<p>

<br>

<b>Relearning Our Endowment Ethic</b><p>



<p>



These things are certain: we can't do it without the without the middle class.

And we can't do it without going at entitlements head on.<p>



<p>



<p>



Bill Clinton's decision to skirt entitlements and to spare the middle class

from all but token sacrifice may have seemed a politically expedient course for

the short term, just as it has to the past several Administrations. (According

to the economist Benjamin Friedman, 74 percent of the burden of what deficit

reduction the Clinton plan does achieve through higher taxes or benefit cuts

will be borne by the small share of U.S. families earning more than $100,000.

But it has meant that his only feasible program is one that has no hope of

balancing the budget--or even coming close.<p>



<p>



<p>



Bad economics may end up being bad politics as well. It is a matter of debate

whether the American public is actually ready for real change and tough

choices. And avoiding excessively rapid spending cuts or large tax increases in

the midst of a creeping recovery was an understandable concern--though for all

too many years it has never been the right moment in the business cycle or the

political-election cycle for decisive action on the long-term economic

predicament that by now also harms our short-term economic prospects. Any

responsible budget plan must be phased in gradually if we want to avoid too

bumpy a ride. But I believe that a clear goal of budget balance--and a

commitment to meeting it by the end of the decade--would ultimately go over

better with both the markets and the public than the course Clinton has chosen.

Indeed, if one adopts Richard Nixon's dictum that the economy that matters most

is the one that prevails three months before the next election, the President's

current approach is a dangerous one.<p>



<p>



<p>



By not asking the public to swallow the bitter pills at the outset, Clinton

risks being forced to ask the public--and especially the middle class--to

swallow them later, closer to the 1996 election. At that point, having denied

the middle class its promised tax cut--and having created the impression that

Americans are already making the needed sacrifices when they're not--Clinton

may find the public wondering at the need for further sacrifice. Moreover, the

lift given to the bond market in 1993 by the early promise of deficit reduction

may by 1996 have reversed itself. With health care and other entitlements still

spiraling out of sight, and with private credit demands likely rising as we and

the rest of the world fully emerge from recession, the United States could once

again see soaring interest rates right around election time. As 1996

approaches, Bill Clinton not only inevitably faces a second major

budget-cutting exercise but also runs the distinct risk of being tagged the

Biggest Borrowing President in history--and he won't even have the excuse of

having presided over a divided government. It's easy to imagine a 1996

Republican campaign advertisement along these lines: "Bill Clinton raised your

taxes, still borrowed a million dollars a day, built a bunch of bridges to

nowhere--and this time you know who to blame."<p>



<p>



<p>



My view is that everybody except the poor and near-poor must be part of the

solution to America's economic problems. But as we move through the various

strata of the middle middle class and upper-middle middle class, and on into

the upper middle class, the sacrifices called for in the form of higher taxes

or curtailed entitlement benefits should get much larger. By the time we reach

the genuine upper class, we should have increased the tax bite significantly

and cut deeply into tax subsidies and windfall entitlement benefits.<p>



<p>



<p>



To help restore fiscal and moral responsibility to our entitlement system, the

budget plan I propose in my book <i>Facing Up: How to Rescue the Economy From

Crushing Debt and Restore the American Dream</i> therefore includes an "affluence

test," or a graduated entitlement-benefit reduction. This affluence test (along

the lines of the comprehensive means-testing idea discussed by Neil Howe and

Phillip Longman in "The Next New Deal," in this magazine in April of 1992)

would apply to all federal benefits, both cash and in-kind. No sacrifice would

be required of households with incomes below the U.S. median (generously

assumed to be $35,000 by 1995, when the test's phase-in would begin). For

families with above-median incomes a portion of total entitlement benefits

would be withheld on a steeply progressive basis. Under the test, households

would lose 7.5 percent of all benefits that cause their incomes to exceed

$35,000, plus five percent at the margin for each additional $10,000 in income.

For most types of entitlement benefits, the maximum benefit-reduction rate

would be 85 percent, applicable to household incomes greater than $185,000.<p>



<p>



<p>



If this proposal doesn't silence those who rail that entitlement reform is

inevitably regressive and must ravage the poor, it should at least give them

pause. For families who are earning between $30,000 and $40,000, are receiving

benefits, and are subject to the test, the sacrifice called for would average

just $260 a year--or one percent of their benefits. Moreover, most who would

have to sacrifice are retired and have lower expenses than working-age adults

with similar incomes. For families earning between $50,000 and $75,000, the

sacrifice would rise to an average of $2,310, or 12 percent of benefits; for

families with incomes over $200,000, it would average $15,345, or 72 percent of

benefits.<p>



<p>



<p>



All told, the budget savings made possible by the affluence test are enormous:

at least $93 billion in 2004, on the basis of a conservative calculation that

takes into account only the 80 percent of entitlement benefits for which we

currently have detailed data on recipient income. Affluence testing alone,

however, does not add up to complete entitlement reform. Among other measures,

we will also need to cap our open-ended tax subsidies for retirement, housing,

and health care, accelerate the scheduled rise in Social Security retirement

ages, and trim the largesse of our federal pension systems.<p>



<p>



<p>



All of these reforms involve structural spending cuts that will save

significant money in the 1990s and much more beyond. In a business-as-usual

budget scenario, entitlement costs could be closing in on a quarter of GDP by

2040. Under my plan we would already be saving about 1.9 percent of GDP in

entitlement spending by 2004; by 2040 we would be saving 5.3 percent of GDP or

some $690 billion in today's dollars--more than twice what we now spend on the

Pentagon. That's what I mean by structural spending cuts.<p>



<p>



<p>



We must invent a new entitlement system that will not just pay us affordable

benefits when we need them but will also encourage us to save more for the

future, care better for our own children and parents, and take more

responsibility for our own health. As America itself grows old, perhaps the

most vital changes in our entitlement system will be those that encourage a

positive new vision of aging. Entitlements for the elderly must promote an

active, economically self-sufficient lifestyle for elders who are able. We will

no longer be able to afford a system that equates the last third or more of

one's adult life with a publicly subsidized vacation.<p>



<p>



<p>



Getting our entitlements system back on a sound footing is the key to both a

balanced budget and a renewed rise in U.S. living standards in the next

century. But of course, putting our fiscal house in order will require much,

much more. There is still room for trimming in the small discretionary domestic

corner of the federal budget. I also believe that in this post-Cold War world

we can spend substantially less on defense, and I endorse the President's

proposed cuts. To balance the budget by the year 2000, and at the same time

spend more on worthy public goals, from more-generous targeted assistance to

the poor to productivity-enhancing investments in human capital, research and

development, and infrastructure, we will also need to raise new revenues above

and beyond the tax increases President Clinton has already proposed. Along with

a broad-based progressive consumption tax, I recommend higher "sin" taxes and a

fifty-cent-a-gallon federal gasoline tax phased in over five years, in order to

target a particularly profligate type of consumption. But in the end, unless we

are willing to touch the third rail of American politics and rein in the growth

in middle- and upper-class entitlements, our goal will elude us.<p>



<p>



<p>



The worst aspect of our entitlement addiction is how it subtly fixes our

attention on how much we are going to get--and how it obscures any thought of

what we have received from others and what we wish to pass on in our turn. In

this sense our entitlement ethos pervades not just our public benefit programs

but our entire approach to deficit-financed consumption. It is time for America

to begin unlearning its entitlement ethic and begin relearning its endowment

ethic. At some point we must decide how much we are willing to give up today in

order to save for and invest in a tomorrow of rising living standards for

ourselves and, of course, our children. The alternative--a future without an

American Dream--is no alternative at all. <p>

<br>

</blockquote>

<hr>

<blockquote>

Peter G. Peterson is the chairman of the Blackstone Group, a private investment bank. 

He is also a member of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New

York and co-founder of the  Concord Coalition,  a bipartisan economic policy group.

Earlier in his career Peterson served as the

U.S. Secretary of Commerce and as chairman and CEO of Lehman Brothers and Bell &amp; Howell.

</blockquote>





<hr>



<img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1993 by Peter G. Peterson.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-32</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B038-178</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/kaminer1.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117192704 text/html 35621
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:26:54 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:10:42 GMT
Content-length: 35415
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Crime and Community 

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>May 1994</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			Crime and Community

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by Wendy Kaminer</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



							<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

 

<blockquote>





	<i><font size=4>Beyond the specific provisions of the new federal crime bill is a set of 

broad assumptions--ideas about the strategies the police should employ not 

just to arrest criminals but also to prevent crime, and about sentencing 

and incarceration and how effectively they deter, incapacitate, or punish 

offenders. In this article, the first of two, the author reports on the 

debate among law-enforcement professionals over community policing, the 

federalization of crime, and the future of gun control</i></font><p>





	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	



	

	<font size=5>C</font>rime control is not a science; nor is it a religion, a simple matter of 

revealed truth, except perhaps to those who blame rising crime on the 

abolition of prayer in the schools. God knows whether restoring school 

prayer might lower the crime rate. Eighty percent of people surveyed last 

August believed that increasing the number of police officers would 

significantly decrease violent crime, and what 80 percent of the people 

wanted they quickly got from their elected officials: one of the most 

popular provisions of the new crime bill is the promise of federal dollars 

for 100,000 new police officers. It has intuitive, commonsense appeal. 

Even if the police have no direct effect on crime, many people feel safer 

in their presence, assuming they don't harbor suspicions of police 

brutality, and when people feel safer, they are more likely to venture out 

of their homes to make their neighborhoods safer.<P>

The 100,000 new officers are specifically intended to help revitalize 

neighborhood life; they're supposed to be trained in community policing, a 

progressive model of police work embraced, at least rhetorically, by 

practically everyone. Community policing calls for a partnership of the 

police and local residents, and expands the focus of the police from 

arrests to intervention and preventive "problem solving." In its most 

reductive form, this approach is viewed as a shift from deploying police 

officers in patrol cars that randomly cruise the streets and answer calls 

for assistance to deploying them on the street and encouraging them to 

establish ongoing relationships with residents. Community policing is 

often described simplistically as a return to cops on the beat who are 

integral parts of the neighborhood.<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>NEW AGE COPS</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>n its sophisticated form, however, community policing entails what 

William Bratton, formerly Boston's and now New York City's police 

commissioner, has called a "sea change" in the concept of policing, from 

reactive, "incident-oriented" law enforcement to a hybrid of enforcement 

and community-service work aimed at crime prevention. It envisions the 

demilitarization of police departments, a shifting of authority down 

through management to the ranks, so that cops on the street will have more 

discretion and can go beyond making arrests to analyzing underlying 

problems and responding to them with community cooperation. At its most 

cosmic, community policing requires teaching critical-thinking skills to 

people who have traditionally been taught to play by the book. Advocates 

of community policing stress that it is not simply a new program or 

strategy but a transformative new philosophy--what a New Age cop might 

call a paradigm shift.<P>

Some observers are skeptical that using federal dollars to hire local 

police officers will facilitate community policing or enhance public 

safety. In general, community policing doesn't rely on increasing the 

numbers of police officers. It seeks to increase community participation 

in crime control. The idea is that police departments will become more 

effective not by increasing their numbers but by extending their reach 

into communities. The ratio of officers to citizens is, in fact, a "poor 

predictor of violent crime," according to Michael Smith, the president of 

the Vera Institute of Justice, in Manhattan. People fear street crime 

greatly, but while crime against strangers is rising, much violent crime 

still occurs between people who know each other. Private relationships 

need to be policed, as the history of domestic violence shows, but they 

need to be policed differently from holdups of convenience stores. 

Additional police officers will have an impact, however marginal, only in 

areas where the police departments are now grossly understaffed, Smith 

believes. In New York City "the number of new cops won't make much 

difference," he says. "When cutbacks reduced the number of police, the 

number of arrests per officer rose; crime went up and down during that 

period." Smith is dismissive of federal funding to hire additional 

officers: "The analytic work that tells you we need more cops across the 

board doesn't exist. It was a campaign promise."<P>

Ronald Hampton, the executive director of the National Black Police 

Association, agrees that on the whole we have enough police officers; he 

contends that we simply don't educate or use them properly. "We need to 

focus on what police do, not how many of them are doing it," he says. "If 

I take a hundred thousand new police officers and put them through the 

present induction program, most of them won't end up on the street and 

they won't bring their heads with them if they get there. If we don't 

first change the philosophy of policing in this country, whatever police 

officers we add will fall into the black hole that exists in every police 

department."<P>

Everybody talks about community policing, advocates agree, but few police 

departments practice it. Michael Smith calls it "rhetorical policing." 

Herman Goldstein, a professor of law at the University of Wisconsin, 

stressed last year at a Justice Department conference on community 

policing that the term "is widely used without any concern for its 

substance." He said, "Political leaders and, unfortunately, many police 

leaders hook onto the label for the positive images it projects but do not 

engage with--or invest in--the concept." Goldstein warns that if 

"community policing" becomes a catchall term (like "empowerment" or 

"codependency"), it will be regarded as a panacea for a catchall litany of 

urban problems. Successful implementation of community policing means 

fundamentally redefining both police functions and the community's 

expectations of the police, he says. Service-oriented policing is not 

intended to satisfy all the needs of communities that are "starved for 

social services."<P>

If communities are apt to expect too much from community policing, many 

police departments are still prepared to deliver too little. The scope of 

the reforms that would be needed and the intensity of internal resistance 

to them are routinely underestimated or ignored. Hampton says that it 

could take up to ten years to implement community policing in a typical 

metropolitan police department, a task complicated by the fact that the 

average tenure for a police chief today is only about three years.<P>

Mayors come and go as well, which can bring changes in policing 

priorities. Shortly after taking office this past January, New York City's 

new mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, called for a reform of the community-policing 

programs adopted by his predecessor, David Dinkins. Giuliani, a former 

prosecutor with a penchant for talking tough, criticized community 

policing for its focus on social services. He suggested that social 

service is at best an "add

on" to police work and at worst a distraction from crime control. 

Giuliani's remarks typified the response of law-enforcement 

traditionalists to new models of policing and missed the point made by 

advocates of community policing: that crime control includes crime 

prevention, which requires an understanding of a community's character and 

its social-service needs.<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>TURNING THE "SHIP OF POLICING"</B><P>



<font size=5>C</font>ommunity policing may be a particularly hard sell at a time when a 

frightened and angry public is demanding a more punitive justice system, 

not a more understanding one. But even in the most judicious of times 

community policing would be difficult to implement. The "ship of policing" 

will turn slowly, Commissioner Bratton cautions, because "we have to 

change everything we do"--recruitment, training and supervision, and 

militaristic management policies. Bratton says he is unaware of any 

program that teaches community policing "the way we would like it to be 

taught." There is resistance from the "old guard," who fear losing 

authority and control as police departments are decentralized, and there 

is resistance from recruits, "who come in expecting to chase people and do 

shoot-ups." Bratton says, "Eighty-five percent of police work is not that. 

The average police officer in America is never going to draw his gun in 

his entire career."<P>

The image of policing is still shaped by the entertainment industry, 

Ronald Hampton observes. "Some recruits expect to come here and be Dirty 

Harry or Don Johnson. We need to shift from a spirit of adventure to a 

spirit of service." Hampton adds that some recruits who do enter the 

police academy with an ethic of service leave with a taste for authority, 

which they find easier to satisfy by policing racial minorities. "The way 

you police in an affluent white community is not the way you police in a 

poor black community," he says, and goes on to tell this story of a young 

black police officer engaged in on-the-job training in the predominantly 

black neighborhood where he was raised: "I asked him a few questions about 

his assignment. He said he was assigned to Georgetown, which is about 

ninety percent white, but he'd been training in a ninety-nine percent 

black community. He said, 'I'm disappointed. I don't want to go to 

Georgetown.' He said he wanted to work where the police tell the people 

what to do, not where the people tell the police. That kid wouldn't have 

said that before he went into the police academy. Now he's calling the 

people he grew up with trash; he's calling them scum."<P>

These caveats about the prospects for community policing in the near 

future do not necessarily mean that the federal promise of new police 

officers is misguided. Congressman Barney Frank asserts that the current 

failure to use the police force with the utmost effectiveness and 

efficiency is no reason not to increase its numbers. Inefficiencies are 

built into any bureaucracy, he observes, adding that liberals fall back on 

arguments about inefficiency when they have ideological objections to 

hiring more officers. "Do they say this about housing? Do they say we 

shouldn't build any more housing until we learn to use what we have 

efficiently? They don't say 'No more aid to poor countries unless we learn 

to do that efficiently' either." Bratton believes that some police 

departments do need additional officers, although their needs will vary. 

The Boston Police Department lost people over the past decade through 

attrition, Bratton notes; Michael Smith stresses that New York City paid 

for more police officers by raising taxes.<P>

The trouble is, Michael Smith points out, that if the government allocates 

funds for additional officers, a city like New York will apply for them 

regardless of need. "Politically, you take what you can get and try to 

deal with the down side of the gift." What might be the down side of 

increasing the local police force? Additional officers making additional 

arrests put additional burdens on local prosecutors, defender services, 

courts, probation services, and jails. A change to community policing is 

not necessarily supposed to result in more arrests, since its focus is on 

prevention. But the standard measure of police effectiveness is the arrest 

rate, and this will not be abandoned anytime soon, despite all the talk 

about community policing. Senator Joseph Biden acknowledges that with an 

influx of new police officers "costs will go way up." (How far up an 

official at the Justice Department could not say.) Perhaps in Boston the 

benefits will outweigh the costs. In New York they may not. More than new 

police officers, Michael Smith says, New York needs new drug

treatment programs.<P>

<BR>

<BR>





<B>"WE KNOW BEST"</B><P>



<font size=5>U</font>nderlying the concern about federal funding for cops are larger questions 

about federal funding in general. Different localities have different 

public

safety needs; why should Congress decide they need more cops and not more 

computers ("There are police departments using dial telephones," Senator 

Orrin Hatch says) or better foster-care or drug-treatment services? One 

view emerging among many local officials, not surprisingly, favors 

"decategorizing" federal funding, in order to return to something like a 

block-grant system that would allow localities some discretion to diagnose 

their own problems and prescribe their own cures. Instead of allocating 

money for police officers, the argument goes, Congress should establish a 

more general, flexible fund for public safety or domestic security. New 

York could request drug-treatment programs, and Boston could request more 

police officers. At least Congress could offer localities a menu of law

enforcement options, allowing them to choose one from column A and one 

from column B or C--more cops or computers or security guards for 

schools.<P>

Attorney General Janet Reno has been obliquely advocating such 

decentralization for some time. In a speech to the American Bar 

Association last August she explained the problem of categorized funding 

like this: "We have created a giant federal government with many agencies 

designed to help people, and they come up with wonderful programs and come 

to the community and tell the community, 'We've got this wonderful program 

but, I'm sorry, you're not eligible for it. Our round grant won't fit in 

your square hole.' The federal government comes to communities and says, 

'We can tell you how to do this; we know best.'" Communities know best, 

Reno and others suggest.<P>

Perhaps. Increasing local control of federal grant money would be 

effective to the extent that local officials are smart, innovative, and 

reasonably honest. It is also true that federal control of funds is as 

effective as federal officials. Politics, ideology, venality, and 

incompetence are apt to drive programmatic priorities at the local, state, 

and federal levels equally. Still, it makes sense to assume that local 

officials in general have a better, more visceral understanding of local 

problems. And whether or not decentralization encourages corruption at the 

local level, corruption is a constant problem that requires constant 

monitoring at every level; a centralized design of programs may only 

encourage a different kind of corruption. Local officials complain 

privately that categorized funding encourages them to lie and vie for 

programs they don't really need.<P>

There are also questions about how wisely federal officials will 

distribute funds. The Justice Department recently awarded a small number 

of community-policing grants, in some cases favoring suburbs and towns 

with low crime rates over more crime-ridden cities. The relatively bucolic 

Sandwich, Massachusetts, on Cape Cod, won out over the beleaguered city of 

Lynn, among other places. Indianapolis lost a grant to an affluent suburb. 

It doesn't make sense, the city's mayor, Stephen Goldsmith, says. "People 

in high-crime areas pay taxes that are then allocated, in the form of 

policing grants, to communities with less crime."<P>

Goldsmith, a former prosecutor, initially welcomed the promise of new 

police officers. Now he is skeptical about how the Justice Department will 

implement it. Stressing that crime is primarily a local problem, he 

contends that decategorizing federal money may be the most important step 

the federal government could take to enhance public safety.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>FEDERALIZING CRIME</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>hat crime, like politics, is a local affair is a universally acknowledged 

truth. In Congress politicians, right and left, often begin discussions of 

crime control by pointing out that 95 percent of all crime is local. Then 

they explain the rationale for imposing federal penalties on whatever 

crime is of particular concern at the moment--carjacking and spouse abuse 

have been targeted recently. There are good reasons for federalizing these 

offenses: stolen cars and parts move in interstate commerce; spouse abuse 

is still ignored in many states, and if gender-based violence is a form of 

discrimination, women arguably have a federal right to be free of it.<P>

Indeed, the federalization of a great many crimes can be rationalized; an 

interstate nexus is rarely hard to find. (The 1964 Civil Rights Act 

prohibiting racial discrimination in public accommodations was based on 

the commerce clause of the Constitution.) Arguments about federalization 

tend to be more political than principled. Liberals tend to contest the 

federalization of criminal behavior except when civil rights are involved. 

Conservatives tend to oppose federalizing racial or sexual discrimination, 

in deference to either states' rights or a free market. People usually 

want the federal government to extend jurisdiction in areas in which they 

favor stepped-up enforcement. Or, as Congressman Barney Frank says, 

"People favor federalizing what they don't like and oppose federalizing 

what they like."<P>

No one likes juvenile violence, which has increased dramatically and 

disproportionately. According to a report by Northeastern University's 

National Crime Analysis Program, from 1985 to 1991 the number of males 

aged thirteen to seventeen arrested for murder rose by more than 100 

percent. Juveniles have been involved in high-profile cases (a thirteen

year-old was among those implicated in the fatal shooting of a British 

tourist in Florida last fall), and the spectacle of children with guns and 

no apparent empathy or conscience is particularly chilling. The rise in 

serious juvenile crime overshadows a recent modest decline in violent 

crime overall and accounts for much public outcry over violence. So it's 

not surprising that the Senate voted to federalize a great deal of 

juvenile crime. Amendments passed hastily by the Senate, without hearings, 

required that juveniles over the age of thirteen be federally prosecuted 

as adults for certain crimes involving firearms, federalized the 

possession of handguns and ammunition by juveniles, and federalized gang 

activity, loosely defined.<P>

In voting for significant expansions of federal jurisdiction over 

juveniles, the Senate was undeterred by the absence of a federal system 

for prosecuting juveniles or federal correctional facilities for 

incarcerating them. Juvenile justice has traditionally been the province 

of the states. Federalizing juvenile offenses could require the 

establishment of a redundant federal system and could also impose 

additional burdens on the states, if they're required to house juveniles 

subject to federal prosecution. New York City's commissioner of the 

Department of Juvenile Justice opposed the Senate bill federalizing the 

possession of handguns and ammunition in the expectation that it would 

strain local facilities and increase delays in processing juvenile 

cases.<P>

But if there are loose theoretical limits and few principled ones to 

extensions of federal jurisdiction, there are practical limits to what 

federal prosecutors, defenders, and courts can manage. Federal district 

courts are already swamped by drug cases that should probably be tried in 

state courts. It's becoming increasingly difficult to obtain a civil 

trial. Federal judges tend to oppose the expansion of federal 

jurisdiction, and the Justice Department seems wary of it as well. An 

official at the department asserts that some thought has been given to 

issuing guidelines advising federal prosecutors when to exercise 

jurisdiction over crimes that are federal and local concurrently. 

Political reasons for establishing federal jurisdiction don't necessarily 

translate into legal reasons for exercising it. Congress may enact a broad 

range of federal criminal laws that federal prosecutors may enforce only 

erratically, if at all--but there's no clamor yet for truth in 

legislating.<P>

In recent years Congress has extended federal jurisdiction dramatically in 

cases involving the use or possession of firearms as well as of drugs. 

Whatever salutary effect this has had on gun violence has been too subtle 

to quantify. Liberals have long argued that instead of simply increasing 

penalties for the illegal use of guns, the federal government should 

restrict sales to the public. Last year Congress took a small practical 

step, or a great symbolic leap, in this direction when it passed the Brady 

bill, which imposes a waiting period on buyers of handguns and was signed 

into law by President Bill Clinton seven years after it was proposed. The 

Senate also passed a ban on the sale of guns to minors (which is already 

illegal in many states) and on the manufacture of certain assault 

weapons.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>60 MILLION HANDGUNS</B><P>



<font size=5>T</font>hese were not exactly controversial measures, although they were quite 

difficult to pass. There is strong majority support for gun control. 

Seventy percent of Americans want stricter gun laws, according to Gallup; 

nearly 90 percent of the public favors the Brady bill.<P>

But even supporters of the Brady bill are likely to concede that it will 

probably have little effect overall on gun violence. Colin Ferguson, who 

opened fire on a crowded Long Island commuter train last December, killing 

six people and wounding nineteen, bought his gun in California, after 

undergoing a sixteen-day waiting period (the store owner added a day "for 

good measure" to the state's legally mandated fifteen-day period), and 

there's no persuasive evidence that waiting periods have decreased violent 

crime in states that already mandate them. A federally mandated waiting 

period may save a few lives, people say, and it represents a crucial, 

symbolic defeat for the National Rifle Association. It may also lead to 

more-stringent gun-control laws, as advocates hope and the NRA fears, such 

as Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's proposal to tax ammunition or ban 

certain kinds of it. But with some 200 million firearms already at large, 

including 60 million handguns, there's no reason to have high hopes for 

traditional point-of-purchase prohibitions. Now that this initial battle 

for gun control has been won, it has become nearly irrelevant to the war 

against gun violence.<P>

Because gun-control debates have been defined by efforts to restrict the 

sale of firearms in the face of NRA opposition, alternative strategies for 

regulating the nation's enormous stockpile of weapons have barely been 

considered until recently. A report published last year by the National 

Academy of Sciences suggests adopting some of the tactics used against 

drugs--focusing on illegal transactions and undesirable uses. A shift in 

focus away from sweeping, hotly contested bans on possession and use would 

at least have significant political advantages. The NRA could hardly 

object to attacks on the black market.<P>

This proposal to concentrate on illegal gun markets does not equate drugs 

with guns, or one market with the other; nor does it necessarily imply 

that we should focus exclusively on the illegal supply of guns, as we have 

traditionally focused on the illegal supply of drugs, ignoring conditions 

that create the demand. But it is an acknowledgment that effective 

near-total prohibitions on guns are as unrealistic as prohibitions on 

drugs and alcohol. Given the American tradition of violent individualism, 

the staggering number of guns already in circulation, and the likelihood 

that more or less law-abiding citizens concerned with self-defense will 

continue to desire guns, the belief that this might someday be a gun-free 

country seems more and more utopian.<P>

The failure to enact meaningful gun-control measures twenty-five or thirty 

years ago has made the slogan "When guns are outlawed, only outlaws will 

have guns" seem almost true. So far the explosion of gun violence may have 

increased the desire for gun control more than the desire to own guns. 

(Reported ownership of firearms has remained fairly stable during the past 

ten years, according to Gallup, while support for gun control has 

increased.) But the balance could shift if the violence continues; if 

people lose all faith in the government's ability to protect them, they 

will take drastic steps to protect themselves, with public approval. Last 

year a Louisiana jury acquitted Rodney Peairs of manslaughter after he 

shot and killed a Japanese exchange student who mistakenly rang his 

doorbell seeking a Halloween party at another address. In the belief that 

he was defending his home, Peairs asked no questions; the entire encounter 

took about one minute.<P>

With more and more people feeling besieged, even at home, by nameless 

strangers, like the man who abducted and killed twelve-year-old Polly 

Klaas in California, studies demonstrating that keeping a gun at home 

nearly triples one's risk of being killed (often by someone one knows) 

will probably have less effect than studies linking smoking to lung 

cancer. Millions of people start smoking and continue to smoke because 

they don't really believe that lung cancer will ever attack them. 

Frightened people will buy guns in the belief that they will never turn 

them against each other. For many middle-class people who live and work in 

low-crime areas, fear of crime is often fear of people they don't know.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>"GOOD KIDS HAVE GUNS"</B><P>



<font size=5>F</font>ear seems to play an important role in the proliferation of guns among 

juveniles, particularly urban minorities, according to David Kennedy, a 

research fellow at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. A 

recent National Institute of Justice study of male juvenile offenders and 

male students in inner-city high schools found that "self-protection in a 

hostile and violent world was the chief reason to own and carry a gun." 

Twenty-two percent of the students reported owning a gun. Thirty-five 

percent reported carrying a gun regularly or occasionally; family, 

friends, and illegal markets were their primary sources. A majority of 

students (69 percent) came from families in which men owned guns, and 

nearly half (45 percent) reported having been "threatened or shot at on 

the way to or from school." Kennedy remarks that youth culture in the 

inner cities is akin to prison culture: "captive, lawless, dangerous, 

self-regulated." Depressing as this is, he adds, it does suggest that the 

market for guns among juveniles may be malleable: control the fear and you 

control the guns, which in turn decreases the fear.<P>

"Good kids have guns," John Silva, the director of safety and security for 

the Cambridge, Massachusetts, public schools, observes. "From a district 

attorney's perspective, a good kid would never carry a gun, but the DAs 

don't live in the projects. There's so much fear. Good kids who want to go 

to school and do the right thing--they're afraid of the gangs and the drug 

dealers; they want to protect themselves and their families. Good kids, 

bad kids--the categories don't apply anymore."<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<B>THE IDEOLOGICAL COMMON GROUND OF "COMMUNITY"</B><P>



<font size=5>I</font>f good kids use guns, then crime is not simply a failure of character, as 

Ronald Reagan once claimed. Nor is it merely a failure of government--to 

reduce poverty and enable good people to grow. If good kids use guns, then 

crime is a failure of community. That, at least, is the emerging wisdom 

about crime.<P>

Talk about community is beginning to dominate criminal-justice debates. 

Community policing, community defender services, community courts, and 

community "empowerment" efforts are praised for their "holistic" approach 

to crime. ("Holistic" is another coming word in crime control.) The 

concept of community is one that both liberals and conservatives can 

embrace. The community is a private and a public place, located somewhere 

between the individual and big government. It combines conservative belief 

in individual responsibility with liberal faith in collective, civic 

solutions to the individual's problems.<P>

Politicians who want to sound progressive sometimes claim that partisan 

approaches to crime are giving way to a new, bipartisan pragmatism. And it 

is true that liberals and conservatives seem to be staking out some common 

ground on crime control, at least rhetorically--although the neat 

divisions between liberal and conservative approaches to crime have always 

been a little facile. Liberals focus on root causes, we always say, while 

conservatives focus on controlling the effects of crime. But in fact 

liberals have never advocated disbanding police departments, tearing down 

prisons, and ignoring the effects of crime while we await its cure. Nor 

have conservatives ignored root causes; they've just defined them 

differently. Every time conservative preachers and politicians rail 

against pornography, or the media's attack on family values, or the 

legitimization of homosexuality, they are addressing what they see as root 

causes of crime. There have even been exceptions to the liberal attachment 

to individual rights and the conservative attachment to authority. In the 

gun

control debate conservatives defended the rights of individual gun owners 

against liberal assertions of the need for social order.<P>

Communitarianism has facilitated liberal appeals to order, because it 

finesses the conflict between individual rights and social control. 

Communitarians use the concept of communal "rights" to peace and security 

as a limit on individual rights to engage in deviant behavior. The concept 

is misleading: communities don't have rights under our Constitution; they 

have interests and a presumption of majority rule, which they're required 

to exercise with respect for individual rights. But the language of 

communal rights is politically effective; it provides liberals with a way 

of positing social order as a primary liberal value.<P>

Is this common ground or merely common language? Liberals and 

conservatives still maintain very different notions about government's 

proper role in facilitating community development and instilling values in 

citizens. Orrin Hatch thinks that the federal government should allow each 

of the fifty states to develop a values curriculum for public schools, 

without worrying so much about strict separations of Church and State; 

some religious values, he says, are "generic values that help people 

realize there is a better way." Janet Reno talks about providing families 

with social services that will help ensure that every child is raised with 

a conscience. She talks about the need for community advocates who would 

help individual citizens obtain the services of their government and 

mediate disputes with landlords. She talks about pro bono legal work. 

Under the rubric of "community" Reno can call for a return to the 

legal-service ethic of the early 1970s while Orrin Hatch calls for 

government vouchers to ensure school choice, getting values into schools, 

and "cleaning up" television and movies. Reno does seem ready to provide 

the broom. It is one of the ironies of the crime debate that liberals and 

conservatives, while they argue over the ways to address violence directly 

in real life, may come together over the need to censor violence in the 

media.<P>

It is fitting, however, that the media emerge as a battleground for crime 

prevention. Crime-control debates have always been driven by imagery. 

Members of Congress are used to gesturing on crime, passing laws that are 

less effective than expressive of an attitude toward crime (they're 

against it). Crime also undermines the image of America that politicians 

celebrate: "The American people are fundamentally decent," they intone, as 

if criminals were of some other species.<P>

Violent crime became a pre-eminent problem last year not because 

fundamentally decent middle-class people, who set the political agenda, 

had an awakening of conscience. Rather, they were awakened by fear. Crime 

began to seem less contained in the inner cities as it spilled out onto 

highways, into shopping centers and suburban schools. Somehow, it seemed 

to take us by surprise. "How did this happen?" people ask, surveying the 

wreckage.<P>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1982 by Wendy Kaminer.  All rights reserved.  <br>



The Atlantic Monthly; May 1994; Crime and Community; Volume 273, No. 5; 

pages 111-120.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-33</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B039-92</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/crime/crimewar.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117193239 text/html 38039
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:32:24 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 15:10:23 GMT
Content-length: 37833
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The War on Crime by James Vorenberg

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>

						<!--DATE-->



<p>



<font size=4>May 1972</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->





<center>





			<h1>

			

			The War on Crime:<BR> 

			The First Five Years

			

			</h1> 



</center>

<p>







<center><font size=4>by James Vorenberg</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote> 



	<i><font size=4>Nixon and Mitchell vowed to turn the tide. "Operation Intercept" and three 

years later, it's their turn to face a fact of life: crime is rising, and 

law enforcement alone won't stop it.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>F</font>ive years ago the President's Commission on Law 

Enforcement and the Administration of Justice--generally known as the Crime 

Commission- reported the results of its two-year examination of crime and 

made more than 200 specific recommendations to overhaul our system of 

criminal justice.<P>



The Commission, for which I served as executive director, had been 

appointed by President Johnson in 1965, partly in response to Senator 

Barry Goldwater's introduction of "crime in the streets" as an issue in 

the 1964 presidential election. But as we met in the White House to accept 

the President's thanks for our report, politics seemed remote. The 

Commissions chaired by Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, included 

among its members Democrats and Republicans, prosecutors and academics, 

the executive director of the Urban League and the vice president of the 

International Association of Chiefs of Police. It had, nonetheless, been 

able to reach agreement on what the President described as "the most 

comprehensive and detailed program for meeting the challenge of crime ever 

proposed in this country."<P>



The President promptly submitted to Congress proposed legislation that 

would provide funds to states and cities to carry out the Commission's 

recommendations for change. Even those of us who had two years earlier 

been a bit cynical about the reasons for the Commission's creation and 

doubtful about what it would accomplish were optimistic.<P>



Yet five years later crime is unquestionably a far worse problem for the 

country than it was then, and our system of criminal justice--the police, 

courts, and corrections agencies--seems less capable of coping with it. 

The Department of Justice consoles us with the assurance that although 

crime is still increasing, the rate of increase is slower. For former 

Attorney General John Mitchell, who made heavy use of crime statistics in 

the 1968 presidential campaign, the 30 percent increase in the reported 

crime rate during the first three years of the Nixon Administration must 

present a strategic puzzle as he plans the 1972 campaign.<P>



In 1967 the Crime Commission could review the FBI reports of the seven 

"index" crimes--homicide, rape, aggravated assault, robbery, burglary, 

larceny (over $50), and auto theft--for 1960-1965 and report increases for 

the five-year period of 36 percent in crimes against property and 25 

percent in violent crime. This was troubling, to be sure, but hardly the 

uncontrolled rampage about which Senator Goldwater had warned in the 1964 

campaign. The Commission noted that because of the post-World War II "baby 

boom," an unusually large part of the population was between fifteen and 

twenty-five years of age. Since this group commits most of the serious 

crimes, about half of the 1960-1965 increase could be attributed to this 

temporary disproportion. The Commission also suggested that some of the 

increase in crime might be the result of better reporting by or to the 

police. Generally, it counseled against overreaction.<P>



But the figures for the last five years of the sixties have convinced all 

but the most skeptical that something more ominous than population changes 

or reporting errors is involved. By 1970 the rate of crimes against 

property had increased 147 percent for the decade and the rate of crimes 

of violence had increased 126 percent. And the latest FBI figures show 

that during the first nine months of 1971, there were further increases of 

l0 percent for violent crimes and 6 percent for property crimes compared 

with the same period in 1970. In the past five years self-protection has 

become the dominant concern of those in our cities and suburbs evidenced 

by the rapid growth of a multibillion-dollar-a-year private security 

industry and the emergence of the German shepherd as the second most 

popular breed of dog.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>N</font>o one can say for sure what accounts for the  enormous increase in the 

danger which Americans face from each other. We do know that those 

agencies on which we are accustomed to rely for crime control--police, 

courts, and corrections--seem less capable of that task today than they 

did five years ago, and many police chiefs, judges, and prison officials 

openly acknowledge that there is nothing they can do to help. We also know 

that each year there are thousands of new drug addicts, most of whom are 

driven by their addiction and the nation's drug policy to prey on their 

fellow citizens in order to get money to buy heroin. And we have 

compelling evidence that during the past five years the frustration of 

poor people and minorities with continued denial of opportunities to 

improve their lives by lawful means has made reliance on crime an 

increasingly acceptable alternative. The fifth anniversary of the Crime 

Commission's report, coinciding as it does with the beginning of a 

presidential election contest in which crime is once again certain to be a 

central issue, is an appropriate time to explore why we have done so 

poorly and what the prospects are for the years ahead.<P>



The Crime Commission sought to show how police, courts, and correctional 

agencies could both reduce crime and treat people more decently. A review 

of where these criminal justice agencies stand today indicates virtually 

no progress on the first of these goals and only spotty progress on the 

second.<P>



THE POLICE. The principal gains by the police in the past five years have 

been in lowering the level of hostility between the police and young 

people, particularly blacks. This progress has taken place despite the 

fact that President Nixon came into office after a campaign that invited 

the police and the public generally to blame crime on Supreme Court 

decisions designed to curb police abuses. Improvement has been especially 

marked in cities such as Oakland and New York, where the chiefs have made 

it clear that decent treatment of citizens is a top priority and will be 

given weight in promotion and assignments of officers. Many police 

departments now have their own legal offices and are getting advice from 

the inside on how to respect due process. The Brandeis University Center 

for the Study of Violence cites better training in community relations as 

one reason for the decline in disorders in the past five years. Increases 

in the number of minority-group police officers have also helped, although 

here the record is mixed. The nation's five largest cities in total have 

shown a 23 percent increase in black officers in the past five years. Yet 

some departments, such as Cleveland's and Philadelphia's, have lost 

ground. Alabama and Mississippi still bar blacks from their state police, 

and Massachusetts has only two on its 870-man force.<P>



Changes which seem to have improved relations between citizens and the 

police in many cities have not been matched by new crime-reduction 

methods. Much of the federal aid to police has gone for such flashy items 

as helicopters, computerized communications systems, and new weaponry. Yet 

these have not produced a significant impact on crime. Little progress has 

been made on Commission proposals that police presence on the streets be 

increased by hiring civilians for clerical and administrative tasks. (New 

York City, with 32,000 policemen, has a maximum number of 3500 on the 

street at one time.) One discouraging indication of how little change has 

been made in five years is the striking similarity between the chapter on 

the police in the Crime Commission's 1967 report and the police section of 

"Planning Guidelines and Programs to Reduce Crime," just released by the 

Justice Department for use in its eight "high-impact" cities, where a 

special effort will be made to reduce crime.<P>



The most promising "new" crime-control idea for the police is New York 

Commissioner Patrick Murphy's neighborhood team system, a blend of the 

Crime Commission's teams of policemen with the traditional "cop on the 

beat." Simply stated, Murphy wants to decentralize responsibility so that 

each neighborhood has its own team of officers who would come to know its 

crime patterns, its residents, and its potential offenders. The team would 

then be held responsible for reducing crime in the neighborhood. Murphy's 

crime prevention and anticorruption strategies overlap, since the team's 

commanding officer would also be fully accountable (Murphy's favorite 

word) for any corruption among his men.<P>



Murphy instituted his system in Detroit but left to become commissioner in 

New York before its results could be tested. He is adopting the same 

approach in New York; and Chief Jerry Wilson in Washington, D.C., Murphy's 

protege, believes his own form of this plan is responsible for some 

reductions in street crime in the nation's capital.<P>



The neighborhood team has probably improved police-community relations in 

the cities where it is being used. It remains to be seen whether it will 

also result in significant reductions in crime or whether it will simply 

provide pressure for incomplete reporting of crimes to central 

headquarters, a time-honored practice in earlier days when a precinct 

captain's job depended on keeping a "clean beat."<P>



CORRECTIONS. The same two goals it set for the police--crime reduction and 

humane treatment--also ran through the Commission's 1967 report on 

corrections, where, as with the police, it believed that the goals were 

not inconsistent and could, in fact, reinforce each other. To achieve 

these goals, the Commission urged a shift from the use of prisons to 

community treatment of offenders. Its reasoning can be simply summarized: 

if we take a person whose criminal conduct shows he cannot manage his 

life, lock him up with others like himself, increase his frustrations and 

anger, and take away from him any responsibility for planning his life, he 

is almost certain to be more dangerous when he gets out than when he went 

in. On this basis, the Commission urged that only the very dangerous 

should be held in prison. It called for the development of halfway houses, 

programs to send offenders home under intensive supervision, special 

school and employment programs, and other forms of nonprison treatment.<P>



In a few places there has been progress in carrying out these 

recommendations. California has developed an extensive work-furlough 

program for prisoners and also offers a subsidy to counties, which helps 

keep the state prison population low by putting more offenders on 

probation. The number of state prisoners has declined from 28,000 to 

21,000 in the past three years. Plans for new prisons have been scrapped 

and some of the existing ones are being closed.<P>



The boldest approach is that of Jerome Miller, Massachusetts Commissioner 

of Youth Services. Mr. Miller concluded that his institutions were doing 

juvenile offenders more harm than good at a per capita cost to the state 

of $10,000 a year, enough, in his words, "to send a child to Harvard with 

a $100-a-week allowance, a summer vacation in Europe and once-a-week 

psychotherapy." Within the next few months he plans to close all his 

institutions for committed offenders and move the inmates to community

based work and education programs. He estimates that only 30 of the 800 

juveniles now incarcerated are dangerous enough to be locked up, and he 

eventually hopes to get these into private psychiatric facilities.<P>



A few other states are moving more cautiously in the same direction. But 

as a whole the country has continued to place heavy emphasis on prisons. A 

recent survey by the Center for Criminal Justice at Harvard Law School 

showed that there are residential facilities outside the walls of 

traditional prisons for less than 2 percent of adult offenders--and that 

most of these facilities were set up in the first two years after the 

Crime Commission's report.<P>



Ironically, the best hope for a move away from incarceration may lie in 

the system's reaction to the slaughter at Attica. In much the same way 

that the fear of city riots prodded police chiefs to develop community 

relations programs in the late sixties, the fear of prison uprisings has 

forced officials to confront such questions as how many of the 1200 

inmates at Attica really had to be in prison.<P>



It is sad but probably true that the fear of riots and the fiscal squeeze 

on the states are more likely to close down prisons than either a sense of 

humanity or a desire to prevent crime.<P>



THE COURTS. While there has been some overall improvement in the police in 

the past five years, and perhaps corrections has held its own, the quality 

of the adjudication process--the responsibility of the courts--seems 

clearly to have deteriorated over the same period. Many lower criminal 

courts look more like factories than halls of justice. More than half of 

the people in jail in this country are there because they are awaiting 

trial, not because they have been convicted. Whatever deterrence of crime 

the threat of penal sanctions might exercise is undermined as thousands of 

defendants go free, not because they have been acquitted but because 

courts and prosecutors are too overwhelmed by their work load to consider 

their cases. <P>



The total number of arrests, the source of the courts' business, increases 

about 5 percent a year. More defendants are represented by lawyers who are 

asserting their rights in court, including rights relating to confessions 

and police searches spelled out by the U.S. Supreme Court during the 

1960s.<P>



The result is that a cumbersome process, which had managed to keep moving 

by herding large numbers of defendants through the courts on guilty pleas 

without consideration of possible defenses, has been further slowed. And 

delay begets delay. The only way prosecutors and judges can keep the 

glacierlike process moving at all is to drop cases or offer concessions to 

defendants who will agree not to assert their rights. Often the best way 

for defense counsel to get these concessions is to make repeated motions, 

seek adjournments, and generally try to drag out the process as long as 

possible. Even lawyers who do not deliberately seek delay achieve the same 

result owing to their own overloaded schedules and the courts' 

inefficiency. The rewards to defendants from this delay are enormous. 

Ninety-four thousand felony arrests in New York City last year resulted in 

only 550 trials. The other cases were dismissed or reduced to misdemeanors 

in return for a guilty plea.<P>



To blame the Supreme Court or defense lawyers who seek their clients' best 

interests is rather like blaming highway congestion on those who set speed 

limits and on drivers themselves. If we want the criminal system to be 

able to handle the present volume of traffic, we must double and triple 

the number of courtrooms, judges, prosecutors, and defense counsel--and be 

ready to keep on increasing the number in the future. And even with such 

increases the system will depend heavily on bargaining for pleas of 

guilty.<P>



Five years ago the Crime Commission called for resources to enable courts 

to handle increased traffic, but it also outlined two possible approaches 

to reducing the traffic. First, most cases involving drunks, first 

offenders, persons in need of psychiatric or medical treatment, and 

nondangerous offenders should be handled outside the criminal system. 

Prosecutors and defense counsel were encouraged to agree on alternative 

forms of treatment before such cases get to court, thus avoiding court 

congestion and the destructive effects of pretrial stays in jail. In fact, 

most of these cases now are disposed of without a formal court decision, 

but usually only after they have added to the jam in the courts.<P>



Second, for those cases that remain, the Commission urged the courts to 

adopt modern administrative and business management methods that would 

avoid repeated appearances and continuances. This recommendation has been 

ignored, although adopting it would help not only the courts but also the 

police, since prosecuting witnesses, including policemen, often are 

required to come to court on five or more separate occasions for a single 

case. Our society surely has the technology to schedule its judicial 

business to eliminate repeated appearances, continuances, and delay. The 

only way to keep delay from being manipulated as part of the bargaining 

process is to have a system that gives the parties their "day in 

court"--but not a day every week.<P>



For the past five years crime has been a major national issue. More than 

$1.5 billion in new federal money has been appropriated for the nation's 

criminal justice system. One may fairly ask why there has been so little 

progress.<P>



Much of the answer lies in the inevitable hostility to change in any large 

bureaucracy. Proposals to substitute halfway houses for high-security 

prisons and computers for court docket clerks, or to establish new 

educational requirements for police officers, threaten job security and 

challenge the propriety and worth of what is being done. When Commissioner 

Miller in Massachusetts abolished punishment cells for juvenile offenders 

and allowed them to have long hair, some staff members permitted a series 

of escapes designed to discredit his administration. Two comments by 

employees suggest their frustration with the changes: "Years ago you could 

flatten the kids out and that would be the end of it." "You wonder who's 

in Jail, us or the kids."<P>



City dwellers have learned recently about the "blue flu that often 

afflicts police officers who are suspicious of proposed changes. 

Commissioner Russell Oswald's apparent sense that he had to cater to the 

views of the guards at Attica--even at the risk of scores of 

deaths--suggests how powerfully existing values now hold those working in 

the system. Strong and militant police and correctional officers' unions 

in the past few years have provided an organization which can mobilize 

this opposition to change.<P>



Not all of the opposition to reform comes from within the bureaucracy. 

Many state and city legislative bodies tend to be wary of changes, 

particularly those that may seem "soft" on criminals or that cost money. 

And some changes--such as attempts to establish halfway houses or drug

treatment centers in residential neighborhoods--have evoked enormous 

hostility from private citizens.<P>



Notwithstanding these inherent pressures against change, there was a 

strong sense of optimism in the mid-sixties that something could be done 

about crime. For the first time the federal government had acknowledged a 

responsibility to help the cities and states. Local police chiefs, 

prosecutors, and correctional administrators worked with the Crime 

Commission from 1965 to 1967, and with the prospect of federal financial 

aid, began the arduous task of overhauling their agencies.<P>



The year 1968 was a bad one for criminal justice. During the 1968 

presidential campaign, Mr. Nixon repeatedly cited decisions of the United 

States Supreme Court as being the major cause of crime. The result was to 

provide police officials, prosecutors, legislators and the general public 

with an easy explanation for the enormous increases in crime in the late 

sixties. This relieved some of the pressure for change, a process which 

criminal justice officials were finding more painful and difficult than 

expected.<P>



It was also in 1968 that the Congress, after a delay of more than a year, 

finally passed the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act to provide aid to 

cities and states. As originally proposed, the Act would have given the 

Justice Department the power to dispense funds directly to criminal 

justice agencies which carried out the changes such as those recommended 

by the Crime Commission. But Attorney General Ramsey Clark became 

embroiled with Congress over Senator John McClellan's insistence that the 

Act provide authorization for wiretapping and bugging. Clark and President 

Johnson were strongly opposed to electronic surveillance. [*See Endnote]. 

However, Johnson's relations with Congress had deteriorated over the 

Vietnam War, and Clark had emerged as the Republicans' whipping boy in 

preparation for the 1968 presidential campaign. When the smoke had 

cleared, the Administration had settled for legislation which not only 

authorized electronic surveillance but which also substituted "block 

grants" of federal funds to the states for the broad grantmaking authority 

in the Justice Department.<P>



The seriousness of this legislative defeat soon became clear. The 

principal justification for federal aid was that it would provide an 

incentive for cities and states to make changes in criminal justice 

agencies. But with block grants the federal government cannot directly 

push for reform. It simply gives a lump sum to each state to be 

distributed in accordance with the state's own written plan. These plans 

are the products of large new state bureaucracies, many of which are 

controlled by old-line representatives of the state and local police 

departments, courts, prosecutors, and correctional agencies that need to 

be changed. Since the state plans are rather general and require only 

superficial changes in the agencies, much of the money has been spent to 

preserve the status quo.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>T</font>hus, except for a few states where the planning agencies have insisted on 

substantial change as a condition of funding, there is little to show for 

the almost one billion dollars that has been spent. Some of the early 

funds were wasted on military equipment for riot control. In one state a 

congressional committee found federal funds had been used to send families 

of law-enforcement officials to college. At a hearing last fall, the 

Conference of Mayors charged that "there is a wide-spread failure to 

comply with the spirit of the law as it relates to distributing funds to 

cities to fight crime." And the former administrator of the Act, Charles 

Rogovin, has made the drastic suggestion that the Law Enforcement 

Assistance Administration's funds "be frozen until its house is in 

shape."<P>



Unquestionably some of the problems are those attendant on any new federal 

grant program. Some result from the highly political nature of the crime 

issue. It has been suggested that the eight "high-impact" cities, each of 

which will receive $25 million in the next two and one half years, were 

picked with at least one eye on the 1972 election. Perhaps the most 

fundamental defect in terms of crime control is the lack of research. 

Largely because Congressman John Rooney of Brooklyn, the chairman of the 

key subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, is suspicious of 

research, there has been a five-year drought in funds for the research 

authorized by the original Act. Thus, not much more is known about 

specific techniques of crime prevention today than was known five years 

ago, and the prospect for new answers in the next few years is bleak.<P>



Even if every change the Commission called for in police, courts, and 

correctional agencies had been made, the resulting reduction in crime 

would probably have been more than offset by increases resulting from the 

enormous spread of drug addiction. The best present estimate is that there 

are 250,000 addicts in the United States, of whom between one third and 

one half live in New York City. Research has shown that the same young 

people at the bottom of the social and economic ladder who commit the bulk 

of predatory crime are most likely to become addicts. (Five out of every 

six addicts in New York City are black; about half are under twenty

two years of age.) Their addiction adds to the already great likelihood of 

their committing crimes the need to raise $25 to $ 100 each day to buy 

heroin. The results have been explosive. Some cities are reporting that 

almost half of those in jail are addicts. One judge in Washington found 

that 75 percent of the defendants brought into court on felony charges 

were addicts.<P>



Five years ago, the Crime Commission recognized addiction as a major 

source of crime, but as four dissenting members of the Commission noted. 

the majority was unwilling even to explore alternatives to the present 

drug enforcement policy, which, by requiring addicts to get their heroin 

illicitly, puts enormous pressure on them to rob, steal, prostitute 

themselves, or sell drugs to raise money. Recently as an extension of this 

policy, we have negotiated with Turkey, France, and Mexico and other 

drug-producing countries in an attempt to cut off the supply at the 

source. This has been combined with attempts to stop drugs at the borders 

of the United States. The most dramatic example was "Operation Intercept," 

aimed at persons bringing marijuana across the Mexican border, and some 

experts think that the only result was a temporary increase in the price 

of marijuana in the United States and a switch by thousands of marijuana 

users to heroin. In any event, it is perfectly clear that heroin and other 

drugs are still plentiful and that federal law enforcement has served 

primarily to keep the price at a high level, with the resultant pressure 

on addicts to commit crimes to support their habits.<P>



The most significant change in drug policy in the past five years is that 

at the same time that several agencies of the federal government are 

devoting enormous resources to the apparently futile effort to stop heroin 

traffic, the country has moved quietly to a policy of dispensing another 

addictive drug--methadone--on a maintenance basis. Labeled as 

"experimental," methadone projects now exist in cities and towns all over 

the country. Many such projects are funded by the Department of Health, 

Education, and Welfare and all require a federal permit.<P>



It was originally thought that methadone in some mysterious way provided a 

"blockade" to the effects of heroin, but it is now clear that many addicts 

take heroin and methadone (and other drugs) interchangeably. Both drugs 

are addictive: both can give a "high" if taken in large doses; and both 

can probably be given at sustaining dosages that would permit most addicts 

to lead more or less normal lives. Many doctors prefer methadone as a 

sustaining drug because they believe it is easier to stabilize doses; some 

would prefer heroin because they think it has a better effect on the 

patient's emotional state. The biggest difference between heroin and 

methadone is probably political rather than pharmacological--methadone 

does not have the history and the connotations that make it so difficult 

for heroin to be considered as a form of medical treatment.<P>



Partly for the same reason, among addicts heroin is still clearly the 

"drug of choice." As long as it is available it is unlikely that even a 

massive methadone maintenance program open to all addicts would 

dramatically reduce the number of heroin users.<P>



Concern about crime by heroin addicts has resulted in support for 

experimental heroin-maintenance programs from unexpected sources. In 

recent weeks a special committee of the staid American Bar Association has 

called for such experiments. So have United States Attorney Whitney North 

Seymour, Jr., and Police Commissioner Patrick Murphy in New York City and 

Sheriff John Buckley in Middlesex County, Massachusetts. Mayor Lindsay 

would almost certainly have set up such a program already but for the 

strong opposition of Congressman Rangel and several other black leaders. 

They see this approach as "writing off" their people and fear that 

whatever deterrent effect the possibility of addiction might have on 

marginal drug users might be undermined if the worst they faced by 

becoming addicted was a daily trip to a government dispensary.<P>



Another factor that has discouraged such programs is a prevailing 

misconception in this country that the British system of making heroin 

available to addicts at government-regulated clinics has resulted in a 

large increase in addiction. While this was true when individual doctors 

were permitted to prescribe heroin freely, two years ago the British began 

controlling distribution by individual doctors and now make drugs 

available through government-sponsored clinics. The result is that the 

number of addicts in England has stabilized at less than 3000. (A recent 

study counted six times that number in one forty-block area in New York 

city.) There appears to be little crime committed in England today by 

addicts seeking money for drugs, because addicts pay either nothing or 2 

cents per dose for their heroin.<P>



It would be a mistake to expect that most addicts will give up crime 

altogether once they can get free heroin from clinics. A prostitute in the 

Addiction Research and Treatment Corporation Center in Bedford

Stuyvesant explained it clearly: "Now that I'm on methadone, I feel like a 

human being for the first time, I want some nice clothes and the only 

thing I'm good enough at is boosting [shoplifting] and turning tricks. But 

I don't have to do as much as long as I can get my drugs here."<P>



Just as methadone is turning out to be no "magic bullet," so we would have 

to anticipate that many heroin addicts maintained at clinics would commit 

crimes. But controlling crime is not finding one total answer: it is 

chipping away with a number of partial answers. By relieving the enormous 

economic pressure of addiction, it may be possible to offset partially the 

enormous increase in criminality accounted for by addiction.<P>



Unless researchers find a nonaddictive substitute for heroin, we will 

probably soon see a few government-sponsored heroin maintenance 

experiments in the United States. And if the experience with methadone is 

any guide, it seems a fair, if somewhat gloomy, guess that five years from 

now public pressure to reduce crime will have forced acceptance of heroin 

maintenance as a generally available form of treatment.<P>

<BR>

<BR>



<font size=5>N</font>either improving the criminal justice system nor relieving addicts of the 

additional economic pressure to commit crimes that their addiction imposes 

on them is likely to make much difference in crime rates if millions of 

people believe crime is their best route to a decent life. We rely for 

self-protection more than we usually recognize on moral restraints based 

on a sense that each member of society has a stake in obeying the law. The 

sense of belonging to a community that underlies much of this moral 

restraint is undermined if the conduct of the rich and the powerful is 

characterized by selfishness, and if the government appears to have little 

concern for the plight of those for whom life is difficult.<P>



Continuing denial of opportunity combined with the anonymity of city life, 

is destroying the social pressure to abstain from crime. The riots of the 

mid-sixties showed one possible outlet for the deep frustration and hatred 

felt by young blacks in the cities--the same group that is already 

responsible for a large proportion of serious crime. In New York City 

predatory "rat packs" of juveniles roam the city. They justify what they 

do as "getting even," and the thought that their victims are human beings 

with lives and feelings of their own seems foreign to them.<P>



It would be a tragic mistake to assume that we can look to the law

enforcement system to control crime if other restraints disappear. To 

understand this we need only look at the situation from the point of view 

of the potential criminal. The odds against the police catching the 

average burglar--either at the scene or later--are probably no better than 

50 to 1. And if he is arrested, he has a good chance of having his case 

dropped or of being put on probation. A middle-class citizen with a 

reasonably comfortable life may be deterred by these odds: he has too much 

to lose. But 25 million people in the United States live below the 

officially defined poverty line. In a society where television commercials 

are constantly reminding us that every self-respecting American should be 

driving a new car and flying off for a Caribbean vacation, crime may seem 

like the only good bet for those whose lives are little more than a 

struggle to survive.<P>



Even if we double or quadruple the effectiveness of law enforcement (and 

there is no reason to think we can) and reduce the odds proportionately it 

may still be a good bet. Crime will be a worse gamble only when people 

have decent enough lives on the outside so they are unwilling to risk 

arrest and conviction.<P>



The view that the level of crime is determined less by law enforcement 

than by the extent to which we make life worthwhile for those at the 

bottom of the economic and social ladder is not a partisan one. Five years 

ago the Crime Commission, which included such staunch conservatives as 

William Rogers, currently Secretary of State, and Lewis Powell, one of 

President Nixon's most recent appointees to the Supreme Court, unanimously 

reported that the Commission<P>





<BLOCKQUOTE>

...has no doubt whatever that the most significant action that can be 

taken against crime is action designed to eliminate slums and ghettos, to 

improve education, to provide jobs, to make sure that every American is 

given the opportunities and freedoms that will enable him to assume his 

responsibilities.<p>

</BLOCKQUOTE>





The country seems to be proceeding on the contrary assumption. In a two

year period when federal appropriations for the Law Enforcement Assistance 

Administration program increased from $270 million to $700 million, funds 

for the federal juvenile-delinquency programs were cut from $15 to $10 

million. Against the background of the tremendous increase in crime 

committed by blacks, whatever notions of fiscal soundness or social 

justice are thought to underlie the Administration's apparent acceptance 

of Daniel P. Moynihan's proposal for "benign neglect" of blacks, that 

policy seems almost certain to have disastrous effects on crime.<P>



The Crime Commission's final conclusion was that "controlling crime in 

America is an endeavor that will be slow and hard and costly. But America 

can control crime if it will." At that time I thought there was hope for 

changes that would both strengthen the agencies of criminal administration 

and reduce the injustices that underlie much crime. I still do not believe 

that we have to settle for a society where we live in fear of each other. 

But today, I find it hard to point to anything that is being done that is 

likely to reduce crime even to the level of five years 

ago.<P>







	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p> <font size=1> Copyright 1972 by James Vorenberg.  All rights reserved.  

<br> 



The Atlantic Monthly; May 1972; The War on Crime: The First Five Years.  </font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-34</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B044-47</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/immigrat/kennf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117200438 text/html 56895
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:04:14 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:59:04 GMT
Content-length: 56689
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Must It Be the Rest Against the

West?

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>December 1994</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



Must It Be the Rest Against the

West?



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Matthew Connelly and Paul Kennedy</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>Absent major changes in North-South relations, the wretched should inherit the

earth by about 2025</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<i>"Now, stretching over that empty sea, aground some fifty yards out, [lay] the

incredible fleet from the other side of the globe, the rusty, creaking fleet

that the old professor had been eyeing since morning. . . . He pressed his eye

to the glass, and the first things he saw were arms. . . . Then he started to

count. Calm and unhurried. But it was like trying to count all the trees in the

forest, those arms raised high in the air, waving and shaking together, all

outstretched toward the nearby shore. Scraggy branches, brown and black,

quickened by a breath of hope. All bare, those fleshless Gandhi-arms. . . .

thirty thousand creatures on a single ship!"</i><p>



--The Camp of the Saints<p>

	

	<font size=5>W</font>elcome to the 300-page narrative of Jean Raspail's disturbing, chilling,

futuristic novel The Camp of the Saints, first published in Paris twenty-one

years ago and translated into English a short while later. Set at some vague

time--perhaps fifteen or twenty years--in the future, the novel describes the

pilgrimage of a million desperate Indians who, forsaking the ghastly conditions

of downtown Calcutta and surrounding villages, commandeer an armada of decrepit

ships and set off for the French Riviera. The catalyst for this irruption is

simple enough. Moved by accounts of widespread famine across an Indian

subcontinent collapsing under the sheer weight of its fast-growing population,

the Belgian government has decided to admit and adopt a number of young

children; but the policy is reversed when tens of thousands of mothers begin to

push their babies against the Belgian consul general's gates in Calcutta. After

mobbing the building in disgust at Belgium's change of mind, the crowd is

further inflamed by a messianic speech from one of their number, an

untouchable, a gaunt, eye-catching "turd eater," who calls for the poor and

wretched of the world to advance upon the Western paradise: "The nations are

rising from the four corners of the earth," Raspail has the man say, "and their

number is like the sand of the sea. They will march up over the broad earth and

surround the camp of the saints and the beloved city. . . ." Storming on board

every ship within range, the crowds force the crews to take them on a lengthy,

horrific voyage, around Africa and through the Strait of Gibraltar to the

southern shores of France.<p>



<p>



But it is not the huddled mass of Indians, with their "fleshless Gandhi-arms,"

that is the focus of Raspail's attention so much as the varied responses of the

French and the other privileged members of "the camp of the saints" as they

debate how to deal with the inexorably advancing multitude. Raspail is

particularly effective here in capturing the platitudes of official

announcements, the voices of ordinary people, the tone of statements by

concerned bishops, and so on. The book also seems realistic in its recounting

of the crumbling away of resolve by French sailors and soldiers when they are

given the order to repel physically--to shoot or torpedo--this armada of

helpless yet menacing people. It would be much easier, clearly, to confront a

military foe, such as a Warsaw Pact nation. The fifty-one (short) chapters are

skillfully arranged so that the reader's attention is switched back and forth,

within a two-month time frame, between the anxious debates in Paris and events

attending the slow and grisly voyage of the Calcutta masses. The denouement,

with the French population fleeing their southern regions and army units

deserting in droves, is especially dramatic.<p>



<p>



The Voyage of the Golden Venture<p>



<p>



Why revisit this controversial and nowadays hard-to-obtain novel? The recovery

of this neglected work helps us to call attention to the key global problem of

the final years of the twentieth century: unbalanced wealth and resources,

unbalanced demographic trends, and the relationship between the two. Many

members of the more prosperous economies are beginning to agree with Raspail's

vision: a world of two "camps," North and South, separate and unequal, in which

the rich will have to fight and the poor will have to die if mass migration is

not to overwhelm us all. Migration is the third part of the problem. If we do

not act now to counteract tendencies toward global apartheid, they will only

hurry the day when we may indeed see Raspail's vision made real.<p>



<p>



One of us (Kennedy) first heard The Camp of the Saints referred to at various

times during discussions of illegal migration. One such occasion was in the

summer of 1991, following media reports about the thousands of desperate

Albanians who commandeered ships to take them to the Italian ports of Bari and

Brindisi, where they were locked in soccer stadiums by the local police before

being forcibly returned to a homeland so poor that it is one of the few parts

of Europe sometimes categorized as "developing" countries. Apparently, one

reason for this exodus was that the Albanians had been watching Italian

television--including commercials for consumer goods, cat food shown being

served on a silver platter, and the like. More than a few colleagues mentioned

that the incident struck them as a small-scale version of Raspail's grim

scenario.<p>



<p>



If a short trip across the Adriatic seems a far cry from a passage from

Calcutta to Provence, the voyage of the Golden Venture was even more fantastic

than anything imagined by Raspail. This 150-foot rust-streaked freighter left

Bangkok, Thailand, in February of 1993 carrying ninety Chinese refugees, mostly

from the impoverished Fujian province. Two hundred more Chinese boarded in

Mombasa, Kenya. When they finally came ashore, on June 6, in the darkness and

pounding surf off Rockaway, Queens, in New York City (eight drowned trying to

swim to land), all had traveled a much greater distance than Raspail's

fictional refugees.<p>



<p>



What was remarkable about the Golden Venture was not that Chinese refugees

tried to smuggle themselves into the United States--some experts estimate that

10,000 to 30,000 manage to do so each year--but that in traveling west rather

than east, they were taking a new route to America. In the past most Chinese

illegal immigrants came ashore on the West Coast or crossed into California

after landing in Mexico. But the Golden Venture rounded the Cape of Good Hope

and thus crossed some of the same waters as Raspail's imaginary armada.<p>



<p>



The Camp of the Saints was also to some extent recalled in a special report of

October 18, 1992, by the New York Times correspondent Alan Riding, about the

remarkable increase in illegal immigration across the Strait of Gibraltar, the

narrowest gap between Africa and Europe. The most startling fact in the report

was not that ambitious, unemployed North Africans were heading to Europe to

find jobs but that such traffic has now become pan-continental or even global.

Of the 1,547 immigrants detained by the Spanish authorities in the first ten

months of the year of Riding's report, 258 were from Ethiopia, 193 from

Liberia, seventy-two from South Africa, and sixty-four from Somalia.

Seventy-two from South Africa! Did they walk, hitchhike, or take buses across

the entire continent? Even a journey that long pales beside Riding's further

point that "word of the new route had spread far beyond Morocco, with not only

Algerians and growing numbers of sub-Saharan Africans, but also Filipinos,

Chinese and even the occasional Eastern Europeans among those detained." Take a

look at an atlas and pose the question, Just how does a desperate citizen of,

say, Bulgaria get to Morocco without going through western Europe? <p>



<p>



The Doom of the White Race<p>



<p>



Jean Raspail, born in 1925, has been writing works of travel and fiction since

the 1950s. Many of his books recount his experiences in Alaska, the Caribbean,

the Andes; he is not ignorant of foreign lands and cultures. Raspail won prizes

from the Academie Francaise, and last year only narrowly failed to be elected

to that august body. The Camp of the Saints is different from his other

writings. In the preface, written a decade after the book, he states that one

morning in 1972, at home by the shore of the Mediterranean, he had this vision:

"A million poor wretches, armed only with their weakness and their numbers,

overwhelmed by misery, encumbered with starving brown and black children, ready

to disembark on our soil, the vanguard of the multitudes pressing hard against

every part of the tired and overfed West. I literally saw them, saw the major

problem they presented, a problem absolutely insoluble by our present moral

standards. To let them in would destroy us. To reject them would destroy

them."<p>



<p>



"During the ten months I spent writing this book, the vision never left me.

That is why The Camp of the Saints, with all its imperfections, was a kind of

emotional outpouring."<p>



<p>



Is this simply a work of imagination or, as Raspail's critics charge, a racist

tract dressed up as fiction? In some parts of the novel Raspail appears to be

resigned, fatalistic, not taking sides: "The Good are at war with the Bad, true

enough," he says at one point. "But one man's 'Bad' is another man's 'Good,'

and vice versa. It's a question of sides." And he has the President of France,

puzzling over the question of inequality among races, attribute to the Grand

Mufti of Paris the idea that it is "just a question of rotation," with

"different ones on top at different times"--as if to imply that it is quite

natural for Europe, having expanded outward for the past 500 years, to be

overwhelmed in turn by non-Western peoples. Indeed, Raspail claims that in

depicting the French armed forces fleeing from confrontation rather than

bloodily repulsing the armada, he shows he is no racist, for "I denied to the

white Occident, at least in my novel, its last chance for salvation."<p>



<p>



Yet for much of the rest of the novel Raspail makes plain where his cultural

and political preferences lie. Whereas the Europeans all have characters and

identities, from the Belgian consul in Calcutta, trampled to death by the

crowd, to the French politicians paralyzed by their impending fate, the peoples

of the Third World, whether already laboring in the slums of Paris or advancing

upon the high seas, are unrelentingly disparaged. "All the kinky-haired,

swarthy-skinned, long-despised phantoms; all the teeming ants toiling for the

white man's comfort; all the swill men and sweepers, the troglodytes, the

stinking drudges, the swivel-hipped menials, the womanless wretches, the

lung-spewing hackers; all the numberless, nameless, tortured, tormented,

indispensable mass. . . . They don't say much. But they know their strength,

and they'll never forget it. If they have an objection, they simply growl, and

it soon becomes clear that their growls run the show. After all, five billion

growling human beings, rising over the length and breadth of the earth, can

make a lot of noise!"<p>



<p>



Meanwhile, along with Josiane and Marcel, seven hundred million whites sit

shutting their eyes and plugging their ears. <p>



<p>



If anything, Raspail's contempt for sympathizers and fellow travelers in the

West is even more extreme. The collection of churchmen who plead for tolerance

of the approaching armada; the intellectuals and media stars who think this is

a great event; the hippies, radicals, and counterculture people who swarm south

to greet the Indians as the panic-stricken Provencois are rushing north--all

these get their comeuppance in Raspail's bitter, powerful prose. In one of the

most dramatic events, close to the book's end, the leader of the French

radicals is portrayed as rushing forward to welcome the "surging mob" of

Indians, only to find himself "swept up in turn, carried off by the horde.

Struggling to breathe. All around him, the press of sweaty, clammy bodies,

elbows nudging madly in a frantic push forward, every man for himself, in a

scramble to reach the streams of milk and honey." The message is clear: race,

not class or ideology, determines everything, and the wretched of the earth

will see no distinction between unfriendly, fascistic Frenchmen on the one hand

and liberal-minded bishops and yuppies on the other. All have enjoyed too large

a share of the world's wealth for too long, and their common fate is now at

hand. <p>



<p>



It is not just the people of France who suffer that fate. Near the end of

Raspail's novel the mayor of New York is made to share Gracie Mansion with

three families from Harlem, the Queen of England must marry her son to a

Pakistani, and just one drunken Russian general stands in the way of the

Chinese as they swarm into Siberia. "In the Philippines, in all the stifling

Third World ports--Jakarta, Karachi, Conakry, and again in Calcutta--other huge

armadas were ready to weigh anchor, bound for Australia, New Zealand, Europe. .

. . Many a civilization, victim of the selfsame fate, sits tucked in our

museums, under glass, neatly labeled."<p>



<p>



To describe The Camp of the Saints as an apocalyptic novel would be a truism.

The very title of the book comes, of course, from Saint John's Apocalypse, the

lines of which are uttered almost exactly by the messianic untouchable early on

in the book. The work is studded with references to much earlier clashes

between "the West" and "the Rest": to Charles Martel, to the fall of

Constantinople, to Don John of Austria, to Kitchener at Omdurman--all to

fortify the suggestion that what is unfolding is just part of a millennium-old

international Kulturkampf that is always resolved by power and numbers. When

Europe dominated the globe, the Caucasian race's relative share of world

population achieved its high point; as the proportion shrinks, Raspail argues,

so the race dooms itself. In his 1982 preface he spells it out again: "Our

hypersensitive and totally blind West . . . has not yet understood that whites,

in a world become too small for its inhabitants, are now a minority and that

the proliferation of other races dooms our race, my race, irretrievably to

extinction in the century to come, if we hold fast to our present moral

principles."<p>



<p>



"Not Since Genghis Khan"<p>



<p>



When The Camp of the Saints first appeared, in 1973, it was, to put it mildly,

not well received. Sixties radicalism still prevailed in Paris; a century of

capitalist imperialism was blamed for the problems of the Third World, though

the feeling was that Africans and Asians now at least had control of their own

destinies; and French intellectuals and bureaucrats believed that they had a

special rapport with non-European cultures, unlike the insensitive

Anglo-Saxons. Besides being shocking in its contents, Raspail's book was also

offensive: it insulted almost everything that Sorbonne professors held dear.

The Camp was swiftly dismissed as a racist tract. As for Raspail, he went off

to write other novels and travel books. But in late 1985 he offended again, by

joining forces with the demographer Gerard Dumont to write an article in Le

Figaro Magazine claiming that the fast-growing non-European immigrant component

of France's population would endanger the survival of traditional French

culture, values, and identity. By this time the immigration issue had become

much more contentious in French politics, and only a year earlier Jacques

Chirac, then the mayor of Paris, had publicly warned, "When you compare Europe

with the other continents, it's terrifying. In demographic terms, Europe is

disappearing. Twenty or so years from now our countries will be empty, and no

matter what our technological power, we shall be incapable of putting it to

use." The Raspail-Dumont article was highly embarrassing to the French

Socialist government, which, though pledged to crack down on illegal

immigrants, was deeply disturbed by the potential political fallout from such a

controversial piece. No fewer than three Cabinet Ministers, including Prime

Minister Laurent Fabius, attacked it as "racist propaganda" and "reminiscent of

the wildest Nazi theories." It was no consolation to them that Jean-Marie Le

Pen, the head of the fast-growing National Front, was making immigration the

leading issue as he campaigned among the discontented French electorate.<p>



<p>



Despite attempts by centrist politicians to ignore this touchy topic, it

refuses to go away. For example, although the early 1990s were supposed to mark

the culmination of the decades-long drive toward the European Union's

integration, an increasing number of Europeans were looking over their

shoulders, especially after the British Broadcasting Corporation raised the

specter of a "march" on Europe in a 1990 made-for-TV movie of that name. In the

program a band of Sudanese refugees decide to walk straight across the Sahara

rather than slowly starve on the paltry rations of Western relief agencies.

With timely assistance from the Libyan government, which calls them the "spirit

of suffering Africa," a throng swollen to 250,000 finally arrives at the Strait

of Gibraltar. "We've traveled almost as far as Columbus," says their leader,

now called the Mahdi. "We have no power but this: to choose where we die," he

proclaims before embarking for the European shore. "All we ask of you is, watch

us die." On the advice of a media-savvy African-American congressman, the

flotilla washes ashore in the glare of flashbulbs and prime-time TV

broadcasts--and a large force of EU soldiers. The movie ends there, and what

happens next is left to the viewer's imagination. But its production was enough

to provoke Raspail to complain. The producers insisted that when they began the

project they had been unaware of the earlier work--an insistence that only

confirmed that the themes of The Camp continue to resonate. The March has

itself become something of a cult classic. Though rejected by the Public

Broadcasting System as "not suitable to their programming" (nobody actually

said it was too hot to handle), after four years it continues to be shown to

audiences throughout Europe.<p>



<p>



All of which brings us to the present day. Raspail may have written the most

politically incorrect book in France in the second half of the twentieth

century, but the national mood concerning immigration is nowadays much less

liberal than it was two decades ago. In fact, France's tough new Conservative

government began this year by announcing a series of crackdowns on illegal

immigrants, including mass deportation. "When we have sent home several

planeloads, even boatloads and trainloads, the world will get the message,"

claimed Charles Pasqua, the hard-line Cabinet Minister in charge of security

and immigration affairs. "We will close our frontiers." Last year he announced

that France would become a "zero immigration" country, a stunning reversal of

its 200-year-old policy of offering asylum to those in need. That Pasqua

believed it was in fact possible to halt immigration was called into doubt when

he later remarked, "The problems of immigration are ahead of us and not behind

us." By the year 2000, he asserted, there will be 60 million people in Algeria,

Morocco, and Tunisia under the age of twenty and "without a future." Where else

to go but France, whose television programs they can view every evening, much

as Albanians goggle at Italian cat-food commercials?<p>



<p>



The Camp of the Saints is not well known in the United States, but it has

attracted some attention in predictable circles. The only English-language

edition we could find came from the American Immigration Control Foundation,

which, as its name suggests, campaigns for stricter policies. That is an aim

also expressed by the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) in its

recent publication Crowding Out the Future: World Population Growth, U.S.

Immigration, and Pressures on Natural Resources, which presents the following

argument very early on: "A traditional moralist may object, asserting, "I am my

brother's keeper." We must ask him: "And what about your children? And your

children's children? What about the children of your neighbor next door? Must

we subdivide and distribute our patrimony among the children of all the world?"

Americans are already outnumbered twenty-to-one by the rest of the world. Our

grandchildren will be outnumbered even more. Must we condemn them to the

poverty of an absolutely equal distribution? How would that benefit them or the

descendants of other people?"<p>



<p>



"Total poverty can be avoided only if people agree that the ancient admonition

"Charity begins at home" is still the best guide to philanthropic action."<p>



<p>



The Washington Times is also strongly in the "let's regain control of our

borders" camp, and its staff writers and op-ed contributors find reference to

Raspail particularly useful in attacking the United States' liberal immigration

policy. Illegal immigrants caught coming by boat--Chinese, Haitians --make for

especially neat comparisons, and nowadays the language is as blunt as Raspail's

own. "Not since Genghis Khan rode out of the Asian steppes has the West--Europe

as well as the United States--encountered such an alien invasion," the

Washington Times columnist Samuel Francis has written. His fellow columnist

Paul Craig Roberts predicts "a cataclysmic future." Roberts has written, "Not

since the Roman Empire was overrun by illegal aliens in the fifth century has

the world experienced the massive population movements of recent years." Both

writers posit what others have called a growing "Third-World-ization" of

America's cities, with a privileged minority increasingly besieged by a

disgruntled, polyglot lumpenproletariat. (Raspail had carefully built such a

situation into The Camp of the Saints: the night came when the "black tide,"

learning what had happened in Provence, rose up and overwhelmed the elegant

apartments around Central Park.)<p>



<p>



Readers made uncomfortable by all this nativist and racist opinion will no

doubt find it easy to counterattack. Migrants are not usually the poorest of

the poor--instead they are the ones best informed about opportunities elsewhere

and able to act on them. Paul Craig Roberts's figure of an "estimated" three

million illegal aliens who find their way into the United States each year is

much higher than other guesses we've seen. And historically, the greatest

population migrations of all consisted of the tens of millions of "illegal

aliens" who sailed from Europe to the Americas, Africa, and Australasia during

the past 250 years; in the face of them the aboriginal inhabitants could do

little but submit or be annihilated. In pointing to the reversal of that flow,

Raspail was at least willing to concede that "different ones [are] on top at

different times." Moreover, many economists--Julian Simon, at the University of

Maryland, is one--argue that immigration gives a net boost to the United

States, a position also held by the free-market paper The Wall Street Journal.

Those who predict that immigration will become one of the hottest political

issues of the 1990s may be correct; what is less certain is that Fortress

America attitudes will win the day. Yet if the United States maintains a

liberal policy while every other rich nation decides, like France, to do the

opposite, will that not simply increase the pressures on this country's

borders?<p>



<p>



Cornucopian Hopes<p>



<p>



Let us now get to the heart of the matter. Readers may well find Raspail's

vision uncomfortable and his language vicious and repulsive, but the central

message is clear: we are heading into the twenty-first century in a world

consisting for the most part of a relatively small number of rich, satiated,

demographically stagnant societies and a large number of poverty-stricken,

resource-depleted nations whose populations are doubling every twenty-five

years or less. The demographic imbalances are exacerbated by grotesque

disparities of wealth between rich and poor countries. Despite the easy

references that are made to our common humanity, it is difficult to believe

that Switzerland, with an annual average per capita income of about $35,000,

and Mali, with an average per capita income of less than $300, are on the same

planet--but Raspail's point is that they are, and that a combination of push

and pull factors will entice desperate, ambitious Third World peasants to

approach the portals of the First World in ever-increasing numbers. The

pressures are now much greater than they were when Raspail wrote, not only

because we've added 1.5 billion people to our planet since the early 1970s, but

also, ironically, because of the global communications revolution, which

projects images of Western lifestyles, consumer goods, and youth culture across

the globe. Ambitious peasants no longer need a messianic untouchable to urge

them to leave by boat for Europe; they see the inducements every day on their

small black-and-white television sets.<p>



<p>



Is all this gloom and doom justified? What about rosier visions of the future?

What about the good news? The apocalyptic literature appears to be at odds with

an equally large array of writings, chiefly by free-market economists and

consultants, that proclaim a brave new world of ever-greater production, trade,

wealth, and standards of living for all. In these portrayals of "the coming

global boom," a combination of market forces, diminished government

interference, ingenious technologies, and the creation of a truly universal

customer base will allow our planet to double or treble its income levels

during the next few decades. In the view of those who believe that the global

technological and communications revolution is making the world more

integrated, rather than more envious, the constant modernization of the world

economy is leading to a steady convergence of standards of production and

living. As more and more countries open up to a borderless world, the prospects

for humankind--or, at least, for those able to adapt--are steadily improving.

<p>



<p>



Yet a closer look at this cornucopian literature reveals that its focus is

overwhelmingly upon the world's winners--the well-educated lawyers, management

consultants, software engineers, and other "symbolic analysts" analyzed by

Secretary of Labor Robert Reich--who sell their expertise at handsome prices to

clients in other rich societies. To the extent that they consider the situation

in the Third World, the cornucopian writers typically point to the model

minority of global politics--the East Asians. The techno-liberals pay hardly

any attention to the mounting human distress in Calcutta or Nicaragua or

Liberia, and no wonder: were they to consider the desperate plight of the

poorest two billion beings on our planet, their upbeat messages would sound

less plausible. <p>



<p>



Our global optimists might consider Robert D. Kaplan's horrific analysis, in

the February, 1994, Atlantic Monthly, of the collapse of entire societies

across West Africa. With governments losing control of any areas they cannot

intimidate through their armies and police, groups of unemployed young men

plundering travelers, AIDS and tuberculosis joining malaria to kill people in

their prime, forests cut down and topsoil washed away, the region increasingly

looks like strife-torn, plague-ridden medieval Europe. Even The Economist,

claiming to detect "a flicker of light" in Africa amid the gloom, admits that

if the sub-Saharan countries did grow at the (overoptimistic) rates recently

predicted by the World Bank, "Africans would have to wait another 40 years to

clamber back to the incomes they had in the mid-1970s. Exclude Nigeria, and the

wait would last a century." What The Economist did not ask was whether the more

than a billion and a half Africans likely to be living in 2035 will be content

to watch the Northern Hemisphere grow and prosper while they themselves

struggle to attain the same standard of living their great-grandparents had.<p>



<p>



It is often argued that Africa is a special case (the Third World's Third

World, as the saying goes), although Kaplan's more general point is that the

same combination of rapid population growth, mass unemployment among youth,

environmental devastation, and social collapse is to be seen, in a less acute

form, everywhere from central China to the Euphrates Valley. Reportedly the

State Department has sent copies of Kaplan's article to many embassies and

missions abroad; the Pentagon prefers Martin Van Creveld's grim portrayal of

future chaos and ethnic conflict, The Transformation of War (1991)--to which

Kaplan's article pays tribute--as recommended reading for its service officers.

Perhaps the most significant thing about these writings is their assumption

that the demographically driven breakdown of order will not be confined to one

continent but will be global in its manifestations--precisely what Raspail

sought to convey in his stark account of swarms of immigrants moving out of

Jakarta, Karachi, and Conakry.<p>



<p>



If the problem is global, it is not all of a piece. There is a world of

difference between, say, Mexican immigrants searching for a better life and

Rwandan refugees fleeing a grisly death. But the most relevant divide is not

between migrants and refugees--we will be seeing a lot more of both--but rather

between what they lack and what we have to offer. Regardless of whether it is

in an increasingly resentful American labor market or an overcrowded relief

camp, the West will be hard put to provide answers to this burgeoning problem.

<p>



<p>



The techno-liberals are right to draw attention to the fact that virtually all

the factors of production--capital, assembly, knowledge, management--have

become globalized, moving across national boundaries in the form of

investments, consulting expertise, new plants, patents, and so on. What they

ignore is that one factor of production has not been similarly liberated:

labor. Even the most outre proponent of free-market principles shrinks from

arguing that any number of people should be free to go anywhere they like on

the planet. This irony--or, better, this double standard--is not unnoticed by

the spokespeople of poorer countries, who charge that while the North presses

for the unshackling of capital flows, assembly, goods, and services, it firmly

resists the liberalization of the global labor market, and that behind the

ostensible philanthropic concern about world demographic trends lies a deep

fear that the white races of the world will be steadily overwhelmed by everyone

else. <p>



<p>



Numbers Count<p>



<p>



It is impossible to isolate population growth from the economy, environment,

politics, and culture of each country to prove that it causes external

migration--though it is suggestive that Haiti and Rwanda have about the highest

fertility rates in Latin America and Africa. What cannot be contested is that

the sheer size of other countries that are "at risk" will make international

migration a problem of ever greater magnitude. Similarly, in broad figures the

future pattern of global population increases is not in dispute. At present the

earth contains approximately 5.7 billion people and is adding to that total by

approximately 93 million a year. It is possible to estimate the rough totals of

world population as the next century unfolds: by 2025 the planet will contain

approximately 8.5 billion people. The pace of growth is expected to taper off,

so the total population may stabilize at around 10 or 11 billion people by

perhaps 2050, although some estimates are much larger. By the second quarter of

the coming century India may well rival China as the world's most populous

country--with 1.4 billion to China's 1.5 billion inhabitants--and many other

countries in the Third World are also expected to contain vastly expanded

numbers of people: Indonesia 286 million, Nigeria 281 million, Pakistan 267

million, Brazil 246 million, Mexico 150 million, and so on.<p>



<p>



Of the many implications of this global trend, four stand out--at least with

respect to our inquiry. The first and most important is that 95 percent of the

twofold increase in the world's population expected before the middle of the

next century will occur in poor countries, especially those least equipped to

take the strain. Second, although globally the relative share of human beings

in poverty is expected to shrink, in absolute numbers there will be far more

poor people on earth in the early twenty-first century than ever before, unless

serious intervention occurs. Third, within the Third World a greater and

greater percentage of the population is drifting from the countryside into

gigantic shanty-cities. Even by the end of this decade Sao Paulo is expected to

contain 22.6 million people, Bombay 18.1 million, Shanghai 17.4 million, Mexico

City 16.2 million, and Calcutta 12.7 million--all cities that run the risk of

becoming centers of mass poverty and social collapse. (Right now there are

143,000 people per square mile in Lagos and 130,000 per square mile in Jakarta,

as compared with 23,700 per square mile in the five boroughs of New York.) And

fourth, these societies are increasingly adolescent in composition--in Kenya in

1985, to take an extreme case, 52 percent of the population was under

fifteen--and the chances that their resource-poor governments will be able to

provide education and jobs for hundreds of millions of teenagers are remote. In

many North African cities unemployment rates among youth range from 40 to 70

percent, providing highly combustible levels of frustration among young men who

turn with interest to the anti-Northern messages of fundamentalist mullahs or,

equally significant, to tempting televised portrayals of European lifestyles.<p>



<p>



Regardless of the rosy prospects for East Asia, the gaps between rich and poor

countries--between Europe and Africa, between North America and Central

America--are widening, not closing; and, as Raspail bluntly put it, numbers do

count. The southern European states of Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, and

Greece, whose combined populations, it is estimated, will increase by a mere

4.5 million between 1990 and 2025, lie close to North African

countries--Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt--whose populations are

expected to grow by 107 million in the same period. The population of the

United States is expected to rise by 29 percent by 2025, while its southern

neighbors Mexico and Guatemala may grow by 63 percent and 135 percent

respectively. Together Europe and North America, which contained more than 22

percent of the world's population in 1950, will contain less than 10 percent by

2025.<p>



<p>



In any case, even if tremendous economic progress were to be made over the next

few decades in some of the poor regions of the globe, the result, ironically,

would also challenge the West, as the economic and political balances of power

swung toward countries that, on current evidence (the 1993 human-rights

conference in Vienna, the Singapore caning), will actively resist cultural

homogenization. Kishore Mahbubani, the deputy secretary of Singapore's Foreign

Ministry, recently suggested as much when he pointed to a "siege mentality" in

the West, affirming that "power is shifting among civilizations." "Simple

arithmetic demonstrates Western folly," he wrote. "The West has 800 million

people; the rest make up almost 4.7 billion. . . . no Western society would

accept a situation where 15 percent of its population legislated for the

remaining 85 percent." Westerners' "fatal flaw," according to Mahbubani, is "an

inability to conceive that the West may have developed structural weaknesses in

its core value systems and institutions." He added, "The West is bringing about

its relative decline by its own hand." It is probably still premature to

predict when China will overtake the United States as the world's largest

economy, but it is undeniable that a shift in material power toward Asia is

under way. Raspail's "seven hundred million whites" may well confront two very

different challenges by early next century: Africa's collapse and Asia's

rise.<p>



<p>



Perhaps the global problem of the early twenty-first century is basically this:

that across our planet a number of what might be termed

demographic-technological fault lines are emerging, between fast-growing,

adolescent, resource-poor, undercapitalized, and undereducated populations on

one side and technologically inventive, demographically moribund, and

increasingly nervous rich societies on the other. The fault line central to The

Camp of the Saints lies along the Mediterranean, but it is easy to point to

several others, from the Rio Grande to central Asia. One of the most

interesting lines of all runs right through China, dividing most of the coastal

provinces from the interior. How those on the two sides of these widening

regional or intercontinental fissures are to relate to each other early in the

next century dwarfs every other issue in global affairs.<p>



<p>



If one accepts that this is our biggest long-term challenge, then the

inadequacies of simplistic, knee-jerk responses assume great importance. The

zero-immigration policies of France and Japan do nothing to affect tilting

population balances and probably increase the resentment of these countries'

poorer neighbors, but denying that migration is an international problem, as

some American liberals do, invites the possibility that a continuing (and

growing) flow of immigrants will place even greater strains on this country's

social and cultural politics.<p>



<p>



Yet what are the alternatives? Even if we wished to alter demographic balances,

is there any acceptable prospect of doing so? When Raspail said, obliquely,

that our "present moral principles" were dooming the West, was he really

getting at the idea that rich societies could expect to preserve the status quo

only if they were prepared to use any means necessary to cut global population?

It is easy to see where that logic leads. To take but one of the more extreme

examples, a Finnish philosopher has become a best-selling writer in his country

by arguing that the world can continue to be habitable only if a few billion

human beings are eliminated; another world war would therefore be "a happy

occasion for the planet."<p>



<p>



Some would argue that we must reverse the decline of Western populations, and

that any people that falls below the replacement fertility rate (2.1 children

per woman) is committing demographic suicide. This is a sensitive topic. Quite

apart from environment-oriented objections to a rise in the birth rates of rich

societies (the average American or European baby will consume in its lifetime

hundreds of times as many resources as the average Chadian or Haitian baby),

there are simply too many social and cultural obstacles to reversing a

declining national birth rate. Japanese and American politicians who bemoan the

failure of "bright, well-educated women" to bear enough children have been

noticeably unsuccessful in their campaigns. Perhaps, then, we should just

accept that the global demographic imbalances are so huge that nothing can be

done to affect them, and, like the old professor in Raspail's book, simply

hunker down and survey the impending invasion through a spyglass.<p>



<p>



The only serious alternative, it seems to us, is simultaneously to persuade our

political leaders to recognize the colossal, interconnected nature of our

global problem and to strain every element of our human ingenuity,

resourcefulness, and energy to slow down, or if possible reverse, the buildup

of worldwide demographic and environmental pressures. Such an effort cannot

rest upon a single policy, such as urging Third World countries to reduce their

population growth; it must instead be part of a major North-South package

wherein all parties, in accepting changes to their present policies, are

persuaded to see that a comprehensive and coordinated response is the only way

forward. If political leaders and their advisers cannot come up with some sort

of win-win solution, in which every country can see benefits for itself,

serious reforms are unlikely and humankind's prospects by 2025 may indeed be

bleak.<p>



<p>



A New (North-South) Deal<p>



<p>



What elements should be included in such a package? In offering some answers to

that question, it is important to stress that nothing that follows is either

new or impossible. In theory, there are lots of things that the global

community could do to improve its condition, and such ideas have been around

for decades, if not longer. The real problem has been the lack of political

commitment to change, or, to put it more charitably, the tendency of national

leaders and delegates to see only the elements of the package that call for

sacrifices on their part--the North to contribute more money, the South to

accept environmental monitoring--and to ignore both the individual and the

collective gains that could flow from a linked set of agreements between

developed and developing countries. If that mind-set can be changed, so can

everything else.<p>



<p>



* What if, for example, the rich Organization for Economic Cooperation and

Development countries actually fulfilled their quarter-century-old promise to

allocate 0.7 percent of gross domestic product annually to development aid,

instead of (for the most part) falling far short of that target? The United

States, with one of the poorest records of all, now contributes less than 0.2

percent of GDP each year. What if the OECD countries were bold enough to

contribute one percent of GDP each year? As a kind of global insurance

premium--protecting not only poorer countries but also ourselves from the worst

consequences of mismatched demographics and development--this is not very much.

In fact, if viewed more positively, as an investment in the future of the

people of our planet, it is a modest sum indeed.<p>



<p>



* What if this money could actually be spent efficiently and appropriately,

instead of falling into the wrong hands and being devoted to the wrong

purposes? For the fact is that international-aid agencies have (again for the

most part) acquired a reputation for investing in ambitious, technologically

inappropriate schemes, channeling funds to highly paid consultants and local

leaders and ignoring the ideas of indigenous inhabitants, while poor countries

themselves have provided far too many examples of corrupt, oppressive, or

simply inefficient regimes that have squandered their treasuries and their

resources for years. Extra development aid has no chance of succeeding unless

it is accompanied by vastly improved accounting and supervisory techniques.

However, the failings of present regimes and of previous aid programs are no

reason not to continue to try to assist development; if anything, these provide

compelling reasons to redouble--and reform--our efforts. <p>



<p>



* What if we were able to use some of this money to employ the tens of

thousands of scientists and engineers now released from Cold War-related

research to seek solutions to our global environmental problems? Such solutions

might include a truly dramatic breakthrough in solar or photovoltaic energy

production, achieving such a drop in the cost of sun-powered energy that it

could be made available to the peoples of Asia and Africa, and could wean them

from their reliance on wood, oil, coal, and other fossil fuels. The enhanced

technology might also include the mass production of small solar ovens,

sufficient to cook a village's meals without a daily search for firewood. The

results of breakthroughs in biotech agriculture (new disease-resistant and

heat-resistant crop strains) might be shared without requiring large patent and

user fees from poor nations.<p>



<p>



* What if it were possible to respond to the desire of hundreds of millions of

women in Third World countries for access to safe and inexpensive

contraceptives, to allow them to stabilize family size and concentrate on

nurturing their existing children? The costs involved are not enormous--a few

billions of dollars rather than hundreds of billions--and when such programs

are administered through women's groups and supported by enlightened

governments, they can have a dramatic effect on fertility rates, as has

recently been demonstrated in Kenya and Egypt. (Such programs ought to be kept

apart from the issue of abortion, which is much more problematic politically

and which, in any case, is used disproportionately in many Third World

countries to prevent the birth of girls.) <p>



<p>



* Since order is the precondition of social betterment, what if, instead of the

nations of the world having to respond to or rebuff the United Nations

Secretary General's pleas to send troops for peacekeeping purposes to one

crisis spot after another, some of the more useful schemes to improve the UN's

capacities--from creating a military staff to establishing "ready-to-go"

units--were agreed upon by the Security Council nations and implemented in the

next year or two? <p>



<p>



* And what if, as a separate yet parallel measure to reduce violence, a much

more serious effort were made to stem the flow of arms (simple guns as well as

sophisticated systems) into Third World countries--arms that are manufactured

primarily by the five permanent members of the Security Council?<p>



<p>



* What if, as a contribution to reducing the forecast clash of civilizations,

the United Nations strove to promote agreement not just in the important sphere

of human rights but also on the equally important issue of recognizing cultural

diversity, both within countries and between technologically dominant cultures

and the rest of the globe? This is not a call for a revival of the crude and

ideologically inept UNESCO programs of the early 1980s. We would, however,

argue that a genuine North-South entente is unlikely unless Third World

countries grow less fearful that their cultures will be swallowed up by the

technologies and material way of life of richer nations, especially the United

States. Cultural arrogance bedevils our planet and gives rise to many conflicts

and antagonisms, just as it suffuses The Camp of the Saints. If the

relationship between North and South is to be improved significantly, a set of

norms (and agreements to disagree) must be established that all or at least

most nations can abide by. <p>



<p>



Various other matters--from measures to enhance the status of women in Third

World countries to improved coordination between UN agencies and the Bretton

Woods institutions--might also be incorporated into a North-South package of

linked agreements. As it is, any one of the aforementioned elements--more aid

more efficiently allocated, appropriate and accessible technological advances,

reduced fertility rates, enhanced peacekeeping powers, acceptance of cultural

diversity--might by itself make all the difference, though we cannot know which

one that might be. <p>



<p>



Donne's Island<p>



<p>



How likely are any of these changes to come about during the next few years?

This is the critical period if we hope to change the socio-economic condition

of humankind in the early decades of the twenty-first century. A global

idealist could point to some promising indicators even in the midst of our

present woes. There is a growing awareness in at least a few rich societies

(the Scandinavian countries, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada) that a serious

effort has to be made to improve the lot of poorer countries and protect their

environments. There are the impressive economic successes of most of the

nations of East Asia, which are raising the quality of life of hundreds of

millions of people and which, provided that further environmental damage can be

avoided (a big proviso, admittedly), offer a possible model to Third World

countries. The end of the Cold War, while certainly not signaling the start of

any new world order, has at least permitted the UN Security Council to function

as it was designed to. International agencies, especially those within the UN

but also innumerable nongovernmental ones, are actively pursuing policies that

not only are more realistic than those of previous decades (for example, no

more World Bank loans for giant dam projects) but also reveal a greater

awareness of the interconnectedness of agendas for real improvement: economic

growth, environmental protection, population control, the status of women,

migration, jobs, investment, education, human rights, and democracy are all

related considerations in any serious effort to improve the condition of the

poorer half of humanity. And at least some commentators are openly arguing that

the need for concerted action ought to be presented no longer in

humanitarian-response terms (because, for example, after the fifth or sixth

Ethiopian famine "aid fatigue" sets in) but in terms of a global ethic that

recognizes our common human destiny and the necessity for shared stewardship of

our delicate global ecosystem.<p>



<p>



But can these sporadic signs of promise really prevail against the lack of

effective political leadership, the turning inward of so many rich societies,

the problem of global structural unemployment in an age of intensified

modernization, the resistance to many programs to encourage the limitation of

family size (even when the thorny issue of abortion is excluded), and the

widespread lassitude and even downright hostility that exist in many quarters

toward the idea of helping the world's two billion poorest? As Zaire, Rwanda,

and Yemen follow Somalia, Sudan, Bosnia, Georgia, and Tajikistan into bloody

chaos and ethnic wars, while Boutros Boutros-Ghali finds fewer and fewer

nations willing to contribute peacekeeping forces, can one seriously expect

significant reforms soon? With the political leadership of the world's most

powerful nation deeply divided over scandals and parochial issues, with its

public evincing exhaustion in respect to international problems, and with

irresponsible though powerful senators blaming the United Nations for every

peacekeeping mishap (such as the deaths of U.S. Rangers in Somalia), is it not

naive and unrealistic to hope for a North-South package of reforms along the

lines suggested above?<p>



<p>



Perhaps it is. Perhaps, as some observers fear, we shall have to observe truly

awful and widespread societal destruction--the collapse of continents rather

than single states; oceans of dead rather than mere rivers--with repercussions

that significantly affect rich countries as well as poor before our public and

our political leadership finally appreciate that an intelligent and

far-reaching response is unavoidable, and that, tempting though it is to turn

away from the world, too large a proportion of humankind is heading into the

twenty-first century in too distressed a condition for any nation to imagine

that it can avoid the larger consequences. We will have to convince a

suspicious public and cynical politicians that a serious package of reform

measures is not fuzzy liberal idealism but a truer form of realism. It is

simply a matter of perspective--or of timing. Doing little or nothing at

present seems the more practical course; yet given the pace and intensity of

global change, the richer societies need to recognize that John Donne's

reasoning applies on an international scale. "No man is an island, entire of

itself"--with massacres, social collapse, and migrations occurring across our

planet on a weekly basis, do not ask "for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for

thee."<p>



<p>



These are, of course, idealistic arguments, and just how many Americans,

Europeans, and citizens of other privileged countries will heed the tocsin is

unclear. For the remainder of this century, we suspect, the debate will rage

over what and how much should be done to improve the condition of humankind in

the face of the mounting pressures described here and in other analyses. One

thing seems to us fairly certain. However the debate unfolds, it is, alas,

likely that a large part of it--on issues of population, migration, rich versus

poor, race against race--will have advanced little beyond the considerations

and themes that are at the heart of one of the most disturbing novels of the

late twentieth century, Jean Raspail's The Camp of the Saints. It will take

more than talk to prove the prophet wrong.<p>



<br>

<hr>

<br>

Matthew Connelly is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of History at Yale

University. He is now in Paris doing research for his dissertation, on the

diplomatic history of the Algerian war of independence.<p>



<p>



Paul Kennedy is the J. Richardson Dilworth Professor of History and the

director of international security studies at Yale University. He is

internationally known for his writings and commentary on global political,

economic, and strategic issues. Kennedy is the author of The Rise and Fall of

the Great Powers (1988), among many other books, the most recent being

Preparing for the Twenty-first Century (1993).

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1994, The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; December 1994; Must It Be the Rest Against the

West?; Volume 274, No. 6;

page(s) 61-84

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-35</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B032-43</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/congress/drewf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191812 text/html 31950
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:17:52 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:44:09 GMT
Content-length: 31744
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

Report: Washington

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p><br>



<font size=4>September 1972</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



Report: Washington



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Elizabeth Drew</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4></i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>C</font>ontrary to what we were taught, there are not, as of now, three equal branches

of government. The Congress has become substantially, and perhaps dangerously,

less effective than the executive branch. It lumbers its way through the

national agendas to the extent that it moves at all. And whoever wins the

presidential election, with whatever mandate for changes will be faced with the

awesome obstacles to change that the Congress has erected.<p>



<p>



The two most important questions about Congress are, first, why it does not do

more, and second, how much it can be expected to do. Congressional reform has

always been a subject for the earnest ones--the province, by default, of the

political scientists, the liberals, the outsiders, the losers. But now the

connections between the way our political system is organized and the

substantive results are becoming more widely recognized.<p>



<p>



The performance of the Congress derives both from its own institutional

arrangements and from less explicit factors such as mood, atmosphere,

historical context, peer pressures, and human nature. And in considering why

Congress does not do more, some perspective is in order. A substantial

proportion of the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives do not

see that there is anything to do. They do not believe that there is much that

is wrong in our current national arrangements and activities. Moreover, as one

congressman put it, "The axiom around here is that the service you do for

constituents, the non-issue stuff, is what gets you elected." Like most

institutions, Congress thinks more about its own preservation than about the

job to be done. The Navy does the same thing, and so do university faculties.

Politicians become intoxicated with the trappings of power: discounts on

automobiles and stereo sets; bathrooms in their offices; elevators that take

them straight to their floor, disregarding other passengers; being treated like

very important people. The rituals, the perquisites, the preservation of power

take on magnetic force. There are thus established institutional arrangements

which reinforce the status quo.<p>



<br>

<b>OUTWEIGHED, OUTWAITED</b><p>



<p>



At its most energetic, the Congress is essentially a reactive institution. The

most important movements of the past decade--civil rights, women's rights,

opposition to the war, environment--originated outside the Congress.<p>



<p>



Its major achievements in recent years, as recounted by a number of senators,

congressmen and their aides, have been to reject two Supreme Court nominations,

bar the President from using American ground troops in Laos and Cambodia, and

raise questions about military spending. It has initiated significant

legislation in only a few areas: child care, higher education, nutrition. It

has moved sluggishly, or not at all, on other issues before it: welfare, health

policy, organization of government. It is giving a minimum of attention, or no

attention at all, to many of the most important questions the country is

facing: reconversion of defense and space industries, population growth and

distribution, land use, energy policy, consumption of nonrenewable resources,

reorganization of political boundaries. It offers no guidance on our future

international political and economic arrangements. On questions which have been

raised in national political debate--the war, distribution of income and the

tax burden, race, individual liberty--the Congress has had difficulty in

speaking with any clarity.<p>



<p>



To some degree, this is inevitable. The Congress is a legislative body, and

legislatures, like political parties, historically and by definition have

difficulty with great, divisive issues. Legislatures are collections of people

who see their role, to the extent that they look at it, as one of working

things out. When issues do not lend themselves to compromise, or provoke sheer

rage--as the war and school busing do--legislatures do not work well.<p>



<p>



The Congress also finds it difficult to proceed even on issues which are less

divisive but on which it does not sense a national disposition. "They want to

be in the mainstream," said a Senate aide. Senators who are not in the

mainstream are often without honor in their time, and--their colleagues have

noticed--defeated. Senators consider the list of fearless, but former,

colleagues: Morse, Gruening, Gore, Clark, Douglas. A senator put it a slightly

different way: "On those things on which there is a consensus in the country,"

he said, "the Congress is pretty efficient. It can hold hearings and pass the

legislation. But with the country divided three to four ways, it can't come up

with the answers." And then he made another significant point: "It isn't as if

the Congress isn't working on these problems. It's just that the problems are

so intractable." There are things about which Congress, like nearly everybody

else, does not know what to do.<p>



<p>



Recent history has left its marks on our national legislature. The skepticism

which has overtaken much of the country, the disillusionment which so many

feel, have affected the Congress, too. "We're just not doing anything, and

there's little interest in doing anything," said Representative Thomas Foley,

Democrat of Washington. "We have lost confidence that we know what to do, and

that has had a devastating effect." "The war has had a debilitating effect,"

said another House Democrat, Donald Fraser of Minnesota. "I say that without

being able to remember how things were before we had the war. It absorbs our

psychic energies. We worry about it, think about it. It affects our attitudes

toward everything." The Senate aide was more explicit as we talked about the

Senate's legislative record: "They are weary old men," he said. "They have only

so much juice in them, and they used it up on the war, the ABM, and fights over

nominations." (One result was that when the President returned from Moscow with

a strategic arms limitation agreement which he said would require more arms,

the Senate Foreign Relations Committee elected not to hold extensive hearings.

It did not want to go through the ordeal of listening to "all those scientists"

again.)<p>



<p>



The lawmakers drew several conclusions from struggles with the White House over

legislation dealing with domestic issues and with the war: the President can

outweigh and outwait; he can go on television and say that his plan will work;

he can put the burden of proof on his opponents, suggesting that they do know

as much as he does and might not be as concerned as he is about the nation's

well-being. Most politicians will get within range of this sort of pummeling

only so often. The President said from time to time that he would "pull the rug

out" from under his opponents on the subject of the war, and a number of them

were convinced, unto paralysis, that he would do just that.<p>



<p>



Not all the reasons for congressional impotence involve the high drama of

political confrontation. It is very difficult in any event for the law-makers

to take concerted action. The quality of ego which motivates most men and women

into politics is not conducive to collective activity. The nature of the

congressional routine diffuses energies and power. One pictures the Congress as

a place where politicians are constantly clapping each other on the back,

talking, trading stories, secrets, or deals; yet members of both the House and

the Senate mentioned lack of fraternization as a factor in their powerlessness.

"There is a sense of isolation that most members experience here," said

Congressman Fraser. "They don't talk to each other, except on little things. An

international conference may be the only place we hear a colleague express

himself on the larger questions. Otherwise, we're caught up in mail, the

office, constituents' demands, and so on. All this tends to keep the Congress

atomized."<p>



<p>



"Suppose you have the best goddamn idea in the world," said one senator. "You

can't get people to listen to you. Suppose I got on the phone right now and

called every member of the Senate. I would have to be able to explain my

amendment in thirty seconds or their eyes would glaze over, and even then

they'd say, 'I appreciate your calling and I'll think about it.' So then I

would write every senator, and mostly I would get a polite form letter back. If

you offer the greatest idea in the world on the Senate floor, sure as hell

nobody's going to hear you give the speech because nobody's there.

Theoretically, they could read your speech in the Congressional Record, but

they don't. Then they file in and ask a staffman 'What's this?' and decide how

to vote on your amendment on the basis of who offered it, whether they want to

offend a committee chairman who opposes it, and only sometimes what they think

about the substance of it, if they know."<p>



<p>



There are other factors which contribute to the built-in inertia of the

Congress. One of the most important, and least tangible, is peer group

pressure. "The clubby aspects are too overwhelming," said one Senate man.

"There is the fraternal aspect: these are my brothers, my friends. Of course,

they aren't real friendships. Friendships don't exist in this town. It's used

as an excuse for inactivity." It is what one senator describes as the

"good-old-boy" pressure, and it works. There is also the self-interested

obeisance to the elders: the reluctance to offend the senior members who

control committee assignments, subcommittee chairmanships, the size of one's

staff.<p>



<p>



Despite all of these pressures, some lawmakers--a very few of them--are able to

turn in effective performances. This is more possible in the Senate, because of

its smaller size, than in the House. Walter Mondale of Minnesota and Philip

Hart of Michigan, both Democrats, are perhaps the most widely respected on both

sides of the aisle for effectiveness. But most of the congressmen and senators

who come to Washington eager to change the world become worn down, tired,

discouraged. The most vital members of the House see a possible escape in

running for the Senate. Bored senators go out and make speeches, brood in their

offices, increase their drinking, run for President.<p>



<p>



<br>



<b>PRESS RELEASES VS. POWER</b><p>



<p>



The practices by which the Congress proceeds skew the substance of its work.

However representative of the country the Senate and the House, in the large,

may be, and my guess is that they are fairly representative, the rules and

customs favor the forces of conservatism. It is not just that the conservatives

have seized the machinery but also that the liberals have let it happen. The

seniority system is one of the more familiar targets of liberal wrath, yet it

survives because a sufficient number of liberals have cooperated in its

preservation. The axiom that where a man stands depends on where he sits

applies here: many quondam reformers begin to see the merits of seniority as

their own years in office accumulate. (The seniority system of the Congress is

a custom, not a rule, and it has at least the virtue, such as it is, of

singularity. No other parliament, and no state legislature, uses it with such

rigidity and grants it such sanctity.) Moreover, the argument of many

congressmen that the alternative would be chaos does reflect some

self-knowledge. The House and the Senate are collections of manipulative people

whose political careers are built upon skill in maneuvering and circuitous

operation. The elaborate honoring of a senile committee chairman therefore

spares them the unleashing of their own worst impulses They need a law of the

jungle.<p>



<p>



The conservative forces have carefully secured control of the processes for

making decisions on the issues which, more than any others, define our national

life: the ways in which taxes are collected and revenues are appropriated. They

dominate the four most important committees in the Congress: the House Ways and

Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee, which deal with taxes, and

the Appropriations Committees of the two chambers, which have jurisdiction over

the budget. "There is a saying around here," said one senator, "that the

conservatives will allow the liberals to say 'what' if the conservatives can

say 'how much.'" Now that issues of economic justice are of major national

concern, the way in which the Congress decides them deserves scrutiny.<p>



<p>



While the conservatives, utilizing their power over committee assignments, have

protected these particular pea patches, the liberals have not tried very hard

to intrude. "The liberals are always ten years late in figuring out where the

power is," said a Senate aide. The liberals scrambled for seats on committees

dealing with issues that seemed more glamorous, such as foreign policy, or of

more concern to their constituencies, such as education and labor and housing.

When they began to understand the substantive consequences of the committee

allocations, and some liberals attained sufficient seniority to seek seats on

the tax and revenue committees, many were reluctant to do so. They were loath

to surrender the seniority they had attained within their own committees, to

move to committees where the work is complex and sometimes heavy going, where

they would be outnumbered and outmaneuvered by the conservatives, and where

there might be less opportunity for publicity. Many a liberal prefers a press

release to power.<p>



<p>



"That group," said a Senate aide about the Finance Committee, "makes Attila the

Hun look like Norman Thomas." His savored overstatement bespoke the widely

agreed-upon point that the Senate Finance Committee is far more conservative

than the Senate as a whole, even more at variance with its collective body than

is Ways and Means with the House. The only representative of a major industrial

state on the Finance Committee is Robert Griffin, Republican of Michigan, who

is not very liberal except by comparison with the rest of the Republican

committee membership. Finance and Ways and Means have staked out jurisdiction

over not only taxes but also welfare, social security, trade, revenue sharing,

and, by a rather tenuous rationale, health. Both operate by rather exceptional

procedures, even for the Congress.<p>



<p>



<br>



<b>WAR ROOM</b><p>



<p>



One way for a relatively junior member of the Congress to draw attention to an

issue and, despite a reluctant committee chairman, to win legislation on it, is

to secure chairmanship of a subcommittee. In such a position, he can hire

staff, conduct investigations, and hold hearings. The House Ways and Means

Committee and the Senate Finance Committee avoid the potential danger of

independent functioning on the part of younger members simply by not having

subcommittees. The chairmen of these two committees, Representative Wilbur

Mills of Arkansas and Senator Russell Long of Louisiana, both Democrats,

further increase their own power by other means. Neither permits members of his

committee to bring their own staff assistants to meetings, forcing the members

to rely on the staffs selected by the chairmen. "Very often," said a senator

who serves on the Finance Committee, "I am voting in the dark." The Ways and

Means Committee operates with a kind of war-room atmosphere. Members are not

permitted to remove staff studies from the committee room.<p>



<p>



Almost all congressional committees do their most important work--deciding the

final details of legislation--in secret; these are called "mark-up" sessions.

But Finance and Ways and Means compound the practice of secrecy, with

substantial effects. According to recently adopted Congressional rules,

members' positions on roll-call votes taken within the committees are supposed

to be made public; Finance and Ways and Means avoid this by not taking

roll-call votes. Closed committee sessions add to the pressures to compromise,

to swap favors, to blur issues. "The pressures for compromise," said a member

of one of these committees, "are nearly overwhelming--the pressures for

pleasantness, for comity, for going along. If you offer a strong amendment,

they ask you not to press your case. They say, 'Maybe we can work something

out.'" Billions of dollars in national treasure, in taxes which all of us must

pay, are traded in the secret sessions during which the committees decide the

terms of tax bills. On the last day of the Ways and Means consideration of the

1969 tax reform act, one and a half billion dollars in potential annual tax

revenues were surrendered. In a series of trades, committee members who watch

over the interests of oil, real estate, farms, and tax-free municipal bonds saw

to it that potential tax increases on these economic sectors were dropped. The

late John Watts, Democrat of Kentucky, was known for his alert attention to the

tax burdens on "bourbon, racehorses, and tobacco." He was ready to support the

tax-free status of municipal bonds in exchange for the help of a city

representative on the question of horses. Representatives from Michigan work to

protect the automobile industry from what they consider burdensome taxes. Care

is always taken that representatives of oil-producing states, such as Texas and

Louisiana, sit on Finance and Ways and Means to keep watch over the oil

depletion allowance.<p>



<p>



"I've never seen anything like that," said a member of the Senate Finance

Committee of his group's consideration of tax reform in 1969. "The thing that's

really deadly for the public interest is the closed mark-up session. Enormous

fees are made by lawyers and lobbyists for dealing with what look like esoteric

questions: for example, what day and hour a change in the tax code becomes

effective. It can mean millions to a company. Tax revision can take a month and

a half of mark-up, and the tendency in the committee is to go along with the

other fellow's motion. Part of the reason why it works is that it meets in

secret, and no roll-call votes are taken. By the time it comes to the Senate

floor, even if a senator made it his life's work, he can't know what's going

on."<p>



<p>



To ensure that the other representatives do not disturb its arrangements, the

Ways and Means Committee brings its bills to the House floor under what is

known as a "closed rule," barring amendments. The rationale is that if tax

bills were open to floor amendments, there might be irresponsible tax cuts and

log-rolling on a grand scale. The dilemma is that this is true; but the closed

rule effectively denies a voice in tax legislation to all but the twenty-five

representatives on the Ways and Means Committee. (The closed rule is invoked

for other Ways and Means legislation, including, this year, for reasons more

obscure, that dealing with revenue sharing.) "I represent a half-million

people," said Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona, "and I am forbidden to have

any say in the tax code. Any drunk can stagger out of the Senate cloak-room

with a two-hundred-page amendment to the Internal Revenue Code and get a

roll-call vote on it." Senator Long and Congressman Mills, especially Mills,

dominate the sessions in which, after each chamber has passed the tax bills,

members of their respective committees get together and--in secret, as is the

rule with all Senate-House conference committees--work out a compromise. I once

asked Russell Long what he thought of the idea of having House-Senate

conferences on bills open to the public. In that case, he said, "they'd

probably have a meeting before the meeting."<p>



<p>



The Ways and Means Committee Democrats have still another means of enforcing

their will. In a rather bizarre arrangement, they also act as the group that

makes the House Democratic committee assignments. "Do not underestimate that,"

said Udall. "Not only do the freshmen quail before them and fawn over them but

also the brothers are always looking around for openings on better committees.

So there isn't likely to be a challenge to them."<p>



<p>



What all of this adds up to is that those who have more access to the

tax-writing committees, particularly Ways and Means, have more voice in what

the tax code says, and the access is by no means equally spread among the

various elements in our society; "Everyone has a stake in tax reform," said a

member of the Ways and Means Committee, "but the public doesn't have the focal

point that the interests have. Those guys are smart. They come in and explain

the equity of their position and tell you how if they didn't have it there

would be massive unemployment, and all that. The Red Cross and the charities

are there to tell you about the great works they do. The fifty million-odd

people who work in factories and make twelve thousand dollars a year are not

represented." Labor has failed to understand the importance of the tax laws,

and to gain access to the processes by which these laws are framed.<p>



<p>



Other economic interests cultivate the staff and raise money for the

politicians. "They build up a friendship," says a member of the Finance

Committee, "that makes it hard to be against a guy if he has a halfway decent

proposition. By and large, the big contributions come from the privileged.

They're not asking for any new privileges. Therefore, a man can say, 'Sure, I

got a lot of money from the oil companies, but they never asked me for a

thing.' That's because what they want is protection of the status quo. It's

easy for liberals to be against the oil depletion allowance but not against

capital gains. By and large, Wall Street gives you money because you're against

the war, or for health, but you think long and hard before being against

capital gains, or depreciation on real estate."<p>



<p>



It is easy, however, to make too much of the role of "the interests."

Essentially, according to many of their colleagues, the politicians who make up

the Finance and Ways and Means Committees believe in what they do. Wilbur Mills

has proposed a review of the tax code, and has said that the burden of proof

will be on those who benefit from the present tax preferences. "I think," said

a member of Ways and Means, "that they will prove it to the satisfaction of the

committee."<p>



<p>



<br>



<b>ARRANGEMENTS</b><p>



<p>



If one accepts the view that information is power, the significance of the

extensive secrecy with which the Congress proceeds can be appreciated. Not only

are all Senate-House conferences to work out final forms of legislation secret,

but so are almost all of the sessions in which committees first write the

bills. Only the House Education and Labor Committee regularly makes its

decisions on legislation in public. The House Appropriations subcommittees hold

many of their hearings in secret, not even permitting other congressmen to

attend. One reason given for this is that the rooms are too small to permit the

presence of outsiders.<p>



<p>



The Appropriations Committees tend to hold the bills determining the budget

until late in a congressional session, and then rush them through. This

provides committee members with leverage for as long as possible over the

managers of federal programs who need their funds, and gives other members of

Congress, and outsiders, little opportunity to affect the way in which the

federal treasure is parceled out.<p>



<p>



Other congressional arrangements affect the nature of our national life.

Lawmakers may have a personal financial stake in the matters on which they are

passing laws. According to Congressional Quarterly, 101 House members have

reported that they have holdings in banks and other financial institutions (7

of these are on the Banking and Currency Committee, and 6 on Ways and Means);

11 have reported interests in airlines; 59 in companies dealing substantially

in defense contracts (2 of these serve on the Defense Appropriations

Subcommittee); 54 in oil or gas companies; 14 in pharmaceuticals; 25 in power

and light companies; 20 in radio and television; 9 in railroads; 19 in farms,

ranches, or timberland: 16 in real estate. Fifty-eight House members reported

that they received income from the practice of law; this practice offers a way

to earn a lawmaker's gratitude by placing business with his firm. The practice

of law by legislators violates the American Bar Association Code. More is known

about House members' outside sources of income than about those of senators,

who do not require themselves to make such information public.<p>



<p>



There are the obligations which lawmakers incur to their campaign contributors.

Many of the politicians object to the recently enacted campaign finance reform

law which requires that they reveal the names of their contributors. On their

behalf, Wayne Hays, chairman of the House Administration Committee, has

initiated moves to make the law more difficult to enforce.<p>



<p>



"The members don't like disclosure," said a congressman. "In large ways and

small, this place is corrupted." He told me a story to illustrate the point.

The franking privilege, by which congressmen use the U.S. mail service without

paying for it, was first given to the lawmakers for work in connection with

services for their constituents--checking out a complaint about social

security, and so on. Over time, the congressmen have adopted it as a privilege

to be used at will--for the sending of newsletters and Christmas cards and

pictures of the family, for mailing campaign material to their constituents

just before elections. This has given incumbents an important advantage over

election challengers, one for which we all pay the bill. Not long ago, one

member of the House suggested to some of his colleagues that they adopt

standards governing the use of the franking privilege. They were amazed and

even angered. "We've had enough reform around here," said House Majority Whip

Hale Boggs. "The members wouldn't like it." And that was the end of the

matter.<p>



<p>



All of this has given rise to a view, particularly prevalent in Washington,

that the Congress cannot essentially change, that its workings are too complex

and ingrown, that its voodoo is beyond the ken of outsiders. There is even a

certain affection for its quaint ways and outrageous characters. Yet history

shows that the Congress is indeed subject to change. Only sixty years ago,

senators were chosen by state legislatures. (The senators from Kansas were

known as "the Senator from Santa Fe" and "the Senator from Union Pacific.")<p>



<p>



Several reforms have been adopted in recent years, and many more are being

considered. There are proposals to reduce the power of committee chairmen, to

spread the power to junior lawmakers, to wrest from the House Ways and Means

Committee Democrats their right to make committee appointments, to give more

authority to party caucuses. The state of Florida has adopted a "sunshine" law

which requires that all official meetings in which public business is

transacted be open to the public; perhaps there could be a national sunshine

law. Federal financing of political campaigns would be the best way of enabling

lawmakers who would like to be honest, and unobligated to the interests, to be

so. At the instigation of Common Cause, the Democratic Party platform this year

calls for the abolition of the seniority system, the end of the closed rule in

the House, the opening of all congressional committee meetings and party

caucuses and the recording of all votes, public financing of elections,

stricter laws on conflict of interest, prohibition of the practice of law by

lawmakers, and more disclosure of lobbying activities. It is considered

sophisticated to say that platform pledges are made to be broken, but perhaps

that, like so much else, is changing.<p>



<p>



The Congress is not isolated from the growing feeling in the country that

things are not as they should be. People, moreover, are getting wiser about how

to press for change. Whatever the results of this year's presidential election,

some fundamental changes will have occurred in our political system.<p>



<p>



There is now a very large group of people who know about political organizing:

about canvassing and registering and getting out the vote. The

eighteen-year-old vote, coupled with intensified participation by those seeking

reform, is going to have a profound effect on our politics, one that will grow

each election year, as a greater proportion of the electorate is young.<p>



<p>



The power of numbers is going to begin to rival the power of money in politics.

Incumbents will have more cause for unease. They will find their constituencies

changed. The successful primary challenges this year to such senior lawmakers

as Senator B. Everett Jordan of North Carolina and Representatives Emanuel

Celler of New York and George Miller of California, and the almost successful

challenges to Senator John McClellan of Arkansas and Representative John Rooney

of New York are only the beginning. If the Congress does not respond by

changing the rules of what has become its private ball game, it is going to

discover that others have moved the park.<p>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1972, Elizabeth Drew.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; September 1972; Report: Washington; Volume 230, No. 3;

page(s) 13-22.

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-36</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B041-90</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/environ/496oil.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117194456 text/html 62410
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:44:25 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Fri, 03 May 1996 18:15:09 GMT
Content-length: 62204
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>


<head> 	





<title>


Mideast Oil Forever?


</title>


</head>





<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>





<p>


<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->


<center>








						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->


						


<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">


<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">


</a>








</center>


						<!--DATE-->





<p>





<font size=4>April 1996</font><p>











						<!--TITLE-->








<center>








			<h1>


			


		Mideast Oil Forever?


			


			</h1> 





</center>


<p>











<center><font size=4>by Joseph J. Romm and Charles B. Curtis</font></center>


<p>


<pre>


</pre>








							<!--UNDERLINE-->


						


 


<blockquote>








<center><i><font size=4>Congressional budget-cutters threaten to end 
America's leadership in new energy technologies that could generate 
hundreds of thousands of high-wage jobs, reduce damage to the environment, 
and limit our costly, dangerous dependency on oil from the unstable Persian 
Gulf region</i></font></center><p>




	<pre>

	</pre>


	





	


	<font size=5>I</font>magine 
a world in which the Persian Gulf controlled two thirds of the world's oil 
for export, with $200 billion a year in oil revenues streaming into that 
unstable and politically troubled region, and America was importing nearly 
60 percent of its oil, resulting in a $100-billion-a-year outflow that 
undermined efforts to reduce our trade deficit. That's a scenario out of 
the 1970s which can never happen again, right? No, that's the "reference 
case" projection for ten years from now from the federal Energy 
Information Administration.<P>
	
	
Imagine another world in which <A 
HREF="http://www.fe.doe.gov/">fossil-fuel</A> use had begun a slow, steady 
decline; more than a third of the market for new electricity generation 
was supplied from renewable sources; the renewables industry had annual 
sales of $150 billion; and the fastest-growing new source of power was 
solar energy. An environmentalist's fantasy, right? No, that's one of two 
<A HREF="http://www.ganesa.com/ecotopia/HubShell"">planning scenarios for 
three to four decades from now, developed by Royal 
Dutch/Shell Group,</A> the world's most profitable oil company, which is 
widely viewed as a bench mark for strategic planning. <P>
A decade's worth of little-heralded technological advances funded by the 
<A HREF="http://www.doe.gov">Department of Energy</A> have helped to bring 
such a 
renewables revolution 
within our grasp. Yet budget cuts already proposed by Congress would 
ensure that when renewable energy becomes a source of hundreds of 
thousands--if not millions--of new high-wage jobs in the next 
century, America will have lost its leadership in the relevant 
technologies and will once again be importing products originally 
developed by U.S. scientists. Moreover, Congress's present and planned 
cuts in advanced transportation and fossil-fuel research and development 
impede efforts to maximize the nation's conventional-energy resource 
base.<P>
Although little can be done to change the first scenario, Congress's 
actions all but guarantee that if an oil crisis comes, our national 
response will be reactive, uninformed, and unduly burdensome. Having 
abandoned the technological means to minimize the crisis, the nation will 
be left in the next century with little more than its usual responses to 
energy crises: price controls or other rigid regulations, or unplanned, 
ineffective attempts to deal with the effects of sharp price or supply 
fluctuations. <P>
What's more, cuts in research on clean-energy technologies represent a 
statement by Congress--conscious on the part of some members, 
unintentional on the part of others--that global climate change is of 
little or no concern, and that domestic environmental problems, such as 
urban air quality and industrial waste, require nothing more than existing 
strategies. Yet the nation's "tools" for dealing with pollution are 
similar to those for dealing with an oil crisis, and new technology 
usually provides the most cost-effective solution. One example: A 
relatively small amount of money spent today to develop, test, and deploy 
highly reflective roofing and road material and plant shade trees could 
help cool the Los Angeles area by five degrees, reducing annual 
air-conditioning bills by more than $150 million. Since smog formation is 
very temperature-sensitive, such cooling would reduce smog concentrations 
by 10 percent, which would be comparable to removing three quarters of the 
cars on the road. The health-related benefits of that smog reduction would 
be worth $300 million a year. Applied nationally, the energy savings alone 
could exceed $10 billion a year by 2015.<P>
Although news coverage of the environment has focused on congressional 
efforts to roll back environmental regulations, cuts in 
environmental-technology programs will have as significant an impact on 
our quality of life in the long run. And by turning a blind eye to the 
technological solutions to environmental problems, we limit ourselves to 
far-more-onerous alternatives. The environmental regulations that Congress 
is rolling back today may become all the more necessary in the not too 
distant future.<P>
The programs being cut are not those failures of the past that are often 
mentioned by critics of federal energy research--for example, the 
synfuels program of a decade and a half ago. They are instead programs 
that have been delivering results for years. <A 
HREF="http://www.doe.gov/html/doe/whatsnew/yergin/ytfcont.html">A report 
released last June</A> 
by a blue-ribbon panel of independent energy analysts, led by the energy 
expert Daniel Yergin, the Pulitzer-winning author of <I><A 
HREF="http://www.gbn.org/BookClub/Prize.html">The Prize</A></I>, 
cited dozens of federally funded technological advances that "are 
generating billions of dollars worth of annual consumer energy savings and 
new business opportunities, and playing an important role in job 
creation." This is what will be lost.<P>
Government and the people it represents cannot expect that the best-case 
scenario will play out. Rather, government should in behalf of the people 
try to prevent plausible worst-case scenarios or take advantage of likely 
trends and opportunities through long-term investments that the private 
sector will not make (either because they are too risky or because the 
reward is too far off). Both of us work for the Department of Energy, and 
in this article we examine some likely scenarios concerning petroleum, 
power generation, and pollution to help focus attention on a quiet 
revolution in energy markets and energy technologies which will have a 
profound impact on U.S. economic strength, environmental health, and 
national security in the next century. The impact will probably equal that 
of the much-ballyhooed information revolution, which receives far more 
attention from policymakers and the media. Yet if we don't focus on energy 
today, our quality of life tomorrow will be permanently diminished.<P><br>
<CENTER><b>The Coming Oil Crisis</b><P>
</CENTER> <font size=5>G</font>iven that the most recent war America 
fought was in the Persian 
Gulf, let's start by examining the likelihood that an oil crisis will 
occur in the coming decade. Forecasting is always risky, especially where 
oil is concerned, but consider what a variety of experienced energy hands 
from every point on the political spectrum have said in the past year 
alone. Donald Hodel, who was a Secretary of Energy under Ronald Reagan, 
has said that we are "sleepwalking into a disaster," and predicts a major 
oil crisis within a few years. <A 
HREF="http://www.on-the-net.com/interskills/minis/energy.htm#futu">Irwin 
Stelzer, of the American Enterprise 
Institute, says that the next oil shock "will make those of the 1970s seem 
trivial by comparison."</A> Daniel Yergin says, "People seem to have 
forgotten that oil prices, like those of all commodities, are cyclical and will go 
up again." James Schlesinger, who was the Secretary of Energy under Jimmy 
Carter, has said, "By the end of this decade we are likely to see 
substantial price increases." In March of last year Robert Dole, the 
Senate majority leader, said in a speech at the <A 
HREF="http://www.chapman.edu/nixon/center/index.html">Nixon Center for 
Peace and 
Freedom,</A> "The second inescapable reality of the post-twentieth-century 
world is that the security of the world's oil and gas supplies will remain 
a vital national interest of the United States and of the other industrial 
powers. The Persian Gulf . . . is still a region of many uncertainties. . 
. . In this 'new energy order' many of the most important geopolitical 
decisions--ones on which a nation's sovereignty can depend--will 
deal with the location and routes for oil and gas pipelines. In response, 
our strategy, our diplomacy, and our forward military presence need 
readjusting." The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, not 
known for being an alarmist, in testimony before Congress last July raised 
concerns that a rising trade deficit in oil "tends to create questions 
about the security of our oil resources."<P>
Concerns about a coming oil crisis have surfaced in the financial markets 
as well. Last October, in an article titled <A 
HREF="http://pathfinder.com/@@aPplf5JaLwAAQJej/fortune/magazine/1995/951030/investing.oilplay.html">"Your 

Last Big Play in Oil,"</A> 
<I>Fortune</I> magazine listed several billionaires and "big mutual fund 
managers" who were betting heavily that oil prices would rise 
significantly. The magazine went on to suggest an investment portfolio of 
"companies that are best positioned to profit from the coming boom."<P>
Fundamental trends in oil demand and supply underlie this emerging 
consensus. First, the world will probably need another 20 million barrels 
of oil a day by the year 2010, according to the <A 
HREF="http://www.eia.doe.gov/">Energy Information 
Administration (EIA).</A>The <A 
HREF="http://193.133.97.7/re/paris.htm">International Energy Agency</A> 
projects an even 
greater growth in demand, following the inexorable tide of population 
growth, urbanization, and industrialization.<P>
Second, the world's population is expected to increase by 50 percent by 
2020, with more than half those additional people born in Asia and Latin 
America. And as farm workers move to the city, much more energy and oil 
will be needed. The fundamentals of urbanization--commuting, 
transporting raw materials, constructing infrastructure, powering 
commercial buildings--all consume large amounts of oil and 
electricity. At the same time, fewer farms will have to feed more people, 
and so the use of mechanization, transportation, and fertilizer will 
increase, entailing the consumption of still more energy and oil. An 
analysis by one of the Department of Energy's national laboratories found 
that a doubling of the proportion of China's and India's populations that 
lives in cities could increase per capita energy consumption by 45 
percent--even if industrialization and income per capita remained 
unchanged. <P>
Finally, industrialization has an even greater impact on energy use. As 
countries develop industries, they use more energy per unit of gross 
national product and per worker. Crucial industries for development are 
also the most energy-intensive: primary metals; stone, clay, and glass; 
pulp and paper; petroleum refining; and chemicals. In the United States 
these industries account for more than 80 percent of manufacturing energy 
consumption (and more than 80 percent of industrial waste).<P>
As <I>Fortune</I> has noted, if the per capita energy consumption of China 
and India rises to that of South Korea, and the Chinese and Indian 
populations increase at currently projected rates, "these two countries 
alone will need a total of 119 million barrels of oil a day. That's almost 
double the world's entire demand today."<P>
Barring a major and long-lasting worldwide economic depression, global 
energy demand will be rising inexorably for the foreseeable future. The 
Persian Gulf, with two thirds of the world's oil reserves, is expected to 
supply the vast majority of that increased demand--as much as 80 
percent, <A 
HREF="http://www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/ieo95/oil.html#oil02">according to the 
EIA</A>. Within ten to fifteen years the Persian 
Gulf's share of the world export market may surpass its highest level to 
date, 67 percent, which was attained in 1974. The EIA predicts that in the 
face of increased demand, oil prices will rise slowly to <A 
HREF="http://www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/ieo95/trends.html#trend02">$24 a 
barrel</A> 
(1994 dollars) in 2010. If, instead, they remain low, the Gulf's share of 
the world export market may rise as high as 75 percent in 2010.<P>
Although non-OPEC nations did increase production by almost 15 percent 
from 1980 to 1990, they increased proven reserves of oil by only 10 
percent. The net result is that the remaining years of production for 
non-OPEC reserves has actually fallen from eighteen years to seventeen 
years. On the other hand, while OPEC increased production by 20 percent in 
the 1980s, it increased its proven reserves by 75 percent. As a result, 
OPEC's reserves-to-production ratio doubled to ninety years.<P>
The growing dependence on imported oil in general and Persian Gulf oil in 
particular has several potentially serious implications for the nation's 
economic and national security. First, the United States is expected to be 
importing nearly 60 percent of its oil by ten years from now, with roughly 
a third of that oil coming from the Persian Gulf. Our trade deficit in oil 
is expected to double, to $100 billion a year, by that time--a large 
and continual drag on our economic health. To the extent that the Gulf's 
recapture of the dominant share of the global oil market will make price 
increases more likely, the U.S. economy is at risk. Although oil imports 
as a percent of gross domestic product have decreased significantly in the 
past decade, our economic vulnerability to rapid increases in the price of 
oil persists. Since 1970 sharp increases in the price of oil have always 
been followed by economic recessions in the United States.<P>
Second, the Persian Gulf nations' oil revenues are likely to almost 
triple, from $90 billion a year today to $250 billion a year in 
2010--a huge geopolitical power shift of great concern, especially 
since some analysts predict increasing internal and regional pressure on 
Saudi Arabia to alter its pro-Western stance. This represents a $1.5 
trillion increase in wealth for Persian Gulf producers over the next 
decade and a half. That money could buy a tremendous amount of weaponry, 
influence, and mischief in a chronically unstable region. And the breakup 
of the Soviet Union, coupled with Russia's difficulty in earning hard 
currency, means that for the next decade and beyond, pressure will build 
to make Russia's most advanced military hardware and technical expertise 
available to well-heeled buyers. <P>
The final piece in the geopolitical puzzle is that during the oil crisis 
of the 1970s the countries competing with us for oil were our NATO allies, 
but during the next oil crisis a new, important complication will arise: 
the competition for oil will increasingly come from the rapidly growing 
countries of Asia. Indeed, in the early 1970s East Asia consumed well 
under half as much oil as the United States, but by the time of the next 
crisis East Asian nations will probably be consuming more oil than we do. 
<P><br>
<CENTER><b>Abandoning the Solution</b><P>
</CENTER><font size=5>W</font>hat is the appropriate national response to 
the re-emerging 
energy-security threat? Abroad the Department of Energy has been working 
hard to expand sources of oil outside the Persian Gulf region--in the 
former Soviet Union, for example--and to encourage the privatization 
of the oil companies in Mexico and other Latin American countries.<P>
At home the DOE is encouraging greater production by providing royalty 
relief in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and similar incentives, so 
that the industry can drill wells that otherwise would not be 
cost-effective. The DOE is working to reduce the cost for the industry to 
comply with federal regulations. Finally, the department is spending tens 
of millions of dollars a year to develop new technologies that will lower 
the cost of finding and extracting oil--for example, using advanced 
computing to model oil fields. Still, few expect to reverse the 
decade-long decline in U.S. oil production. Some would open the <A 
HREF="http://bluegoose.arw.r9.fws.gov/nwrsfiles/RefugeSystemLeaflets/R7/Arctic/ArcticIndex.html">Arctic 


National Wildlife Refuge</A> to drilling, a plan the Clinton 
Administration 
has opposed on environmental grounds, but not even that would change our 
forecasted oil dependency much. This is true even using earlier, more 
optimistic estimates that the refuge could provide 300,000 barrels of oil 
a day for thirty years. The EIA projects that within ten to fifteen years 
the United States will probably be importing <I>thirty times as 
much</I>--some 10 million barrels of crude oil a day, even if the 
decline in other domestic production levels off in the next few years.<P>
Increasing domestic supply, although it may help to slow the rising tide 
of imports, cannot itself reverse the major trend. And reversing the 
nation's ever-increasing demand for oil would be difficult. The country is 
in no mood to enact higher energy taxes in order to bring our energy 
markets into better balance. To most people, an increase in gasoline taxes 
of even a few cents a gallon--let alone the amount needed to have a 
noticeable impact on consumption--is anathema. Similarly, Congress is 
in no mood for a regulatory approach, such as mandating increased fuel 
efficiency for cars.<P>
That leaves one solution for reducing consumption: the technological 
approach, which draws on America's traditional leadership in research and 
development. Here tremendous progress has been made. Given the uncertain 
nature of long-term, high-risk R&D in leapfrog technologies, the prudent 
approach is to explore a number of possibilities. The DOE has invested in 
the development of cars and trucks that are highly fuel-efficient, along 
with cars that run on electricity, on liquid biofuels from crops, crop 
waste, and municipal solid waste, or on natural gas. <P>
Consider biofuels. In 1994 research sponsored by the DOE created a 
genetically engineered organism that enhances the fermentation of 
cellulose, increasing the rate of conversion and the yield of ethanol. 
This achievement, described in the journal <I><A 
HREF="http://science-mag.aaas.org/science/">Science</A></I>, was named one 
of the hundred most significant technological advances of the year by 
<I><A 
HREF="http://www.nde.swri.edu/systems/disk_rim/rd100_info.html">R&D</A></I> 

magazine. This and other federally supported research has 
brought the cost of making ethanol from $3.60 a gallon fifteen years ago 
to about $1.00 a gallon today. If biofuels R&D were funded at current 
levels for five to ten years, ethanol from fast-growing dedicated crops, 
crop waste, and wastepaper could be produced for as little as sixty to 
seventy cents a gallon by 2005. In a country with excess cropland, such as 
the United States, the potential for <A 
HREF="http://www.esd.ornl.gov/BFDP/BFDPMOSAIC/binmenu.html">biofuels</A> 
is enormous. Rather than 
paying some farmers not to grow anything, we might in the future pay the 
same farmers to grow dedicated bioenergy crops. In a country where 
cropland is scarce, such as China, bioenergy could come from municipal and 
agricultural wastes. <P>
Technologies are also being developed to make possible a superefficient 
<A HREF="http://www.hev.doe.gov/">hybrid vehicle</A> that has both an 
internal-combustion engine and some kind 
of energy-storage device, such as a battery or a flywheel. A very advanced 
hybrid has been described by Amory B. Lovins and L. Hunter Lovins (see 
<A HREF="wheels.htm">"Reinventing the Wheels,"</A> January, 1995, 
<I>Atlantic</I>). Supporting 
technologies include lightweight, superstrong materials and advanced 
engines, among other things. This research has been undertaken by the 
<A HREF="http://picard.aero.hq.nasa.gov/">Partnership for a New Generation 
of Vehicles,</A> a collaboration among 
several federal agencies, the DOE's national laboratories, and the auto 
industry. The goal of the partnership is to design and construct by 2004 a 
prototype clean car that has three times the fuel efficiency of existing 
cars and very low emissions, and also comparable or improved performance, 
safety, and cost. Such a car would allow domestically produced <A 
HREF="http://www.ev.hawaii.edu/">advanced 
technologies</A> to replace oil imports.<P>
Another direction that research is taking is toward advanced batteries for 
use in electric cars--among them the nickel metal-hydride 
battery--which promise to double the range achievable with existing 
lead-acid batteries. In conjunction with advances in clean power 
generation, described below, these batteries hold the prospect of 
replacing imported oil with domestically produced electricity.<P>
The technology that most experts would agree has the best chance over the 
long term of replacing petroleum use in the transportation sector is <A 
HREF="http://www.engr.uvic.ca/~dbryan/fuelcell.html">fuel 
cells.</A> These are compact modular devices that generate electricity and 
heat with high efficiency and virtually no pollution. They run on hydrogen 
converted from natural gas and other fuels. The National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration developed early versions of fuel cells for use on 
space missions. Over the past two decades the DOE has spent tens of 
millions of dollars on several types of fuel cells that will soon be used 
to power cars, trucks, utilities, commercial buildings, and industries. 
The Japanese government has been increasing its fuel-cell budget by an 
average of 20 percent a year for the past five years, and Japanese 
companies are less than five years behind U.S. companies in this 
technology. The Europeans are considering significantly increasing their 
fuel-cell funding. Sustained federal support might well give America the 
lion's share of a multibillion-dollar global market.<P>
Fuel cells are one of many advances that may increase the use of natural 
gas as a transportation fuel over the long term. Since 1992 the DOE has 
significantly increased its budget for research and development related to 
enhancing the supply and the efficient use of natural gas. It is seeking 
to encourage a wider use of natural-gas vehicles, to establish a 
nationwide infrastructure for fueling those vehicles, and to develop 
gas-turbine engines for light-duty vehicles.<P>
Current DOE programs--unlike those of the late 1970s, which required 
oil to cost $80 a barrel if they were to be competitive--are aimed at 
making alternatives competitive even if oil prices decline. The likely 
outcome of all the programs mentioned above should not be overstated: we 
will not achieve energy independence in the next fifteen years. What this 
investment portfolio does offer is a chance in the years thereafter to 
blunt any foreign threat to raise oil prices dramatically and to limit the 
economic and geopolitical impact of Persian Gulf oil in particular. At the 
same time, domestic jobs will be created if money that might have gone 
overseas to buy foreign oil goes instead to manufacturing superefficient 
cars and trucks or domestic biofuels.<P>
What's more, the rapid population growth and urbanization of developing 
nations, coupled with the harsh pollution that characterizes most major 
urban centers in those nations, ensure a tremendous market for 
low-emission, superefficient automotive technology. Our industrialized 
competitors have one inherent advantage in the race to develop the 
supercar: gas prices of $3.00 or $4.00 a gallon. Fuel efficiency matters 
more in their economies, and vehicles that use alternative fuels will be 
cost-competitive in their markets sooner. The primary counterbalance to 
that advantage is U.S. technological leadership in most relevant areas, 
stemming in part from historically higher levels of R&D spending.<P>
That counterbalance is about to disappear. Congress has cut the proposed 
fiscal year 1996 allocations for the DOE's 
advanced-transportation-technology budget by 30 percent. Moreover, the 
multi-year balanced-budget plan approved by the House and Senate would cut 
the budget for such technology by 60&#173;80 percent in real terms. <P>
The fact that the DOE has been collaborating with the auto industry in the 
Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles gives some in Congress a thin 
excuse to label the partnership's programs "corporate welfare." Yet 
Detroit's car makers agreed to match federal spending while coordinating 
their corporate research with the DOE's national laboratories in order to 
address the pressing national problems of oil imports and urban air 
quality. The last time America ignored the warning signs of growing 
dependence on imported oil, the Japanese were able to seize a significant 
share of the U.S. auto market with fuel-efficient cars. <P>
Congress's own Office of Technology Assessment released a report last 
September acknowledging that the DOE's "strategy of pursuing several 
different [vehicle] technology options is advantageous for a variety of 
reasons." Congress is ignoring the advice of the office it set up, 
staffed, and funded to provide independent advice on technological issues 
of national importance. Indeed, it apparently no longer wants to hear any 
advice on such issues.<A 
HREF="http://www.the-scientist.library.upenn.edu/yr1996/jan/ota_960122.html">Late 
last year Congress closed the Office of 
Technology Assessment for good.</A> <P>
That the nation's and the world's dependence on Persian Gulf oil will grow 
over the next decade seems inevitable. This is particularly true since 
most projections assume continuing significant technological progress in 
bringing down the cost of domestic production, in developing alternatives, 
and in using energy and oil more efficiently. But those projections have 
not factored in the federal government's plans to withdraw from its role 
in fostering the development and deployment of those technologies.<P><br>
<CENTER><b>The Renewables Revolution</b><P>
</CENTER><font size=5>P</font>redicting our energy future beyond 2010 is 
chancy, but here we 
have an opportunity to rely on perhaps the most successful predictor in 
the energy business: Royal Dutch/Shell Group. According to <I><A 
HREF="http://www.economist.com">The 
Economist</A></I>, "The only oil company to anticipate both 1973's 
oil-price 
boom and 1986's bust was Royal Dutch/Shell." Anticipating the oil shocks 
of the 1970s helped Shell to move from being the weakest of the seven 
largest oil companies in 1970 to being one of the two strongest only ten 
years later. Anticipating the oil bust was apparently even more lucrative. 
According to <I><A HREF="http://pathfinder.com/@@l4uqcJJaLwAAQKWj/
fortune/magazine/1995/950807/global500/profits.html">Fortune</I>'s ranking 
of 
the 500 largest corporations,</A> 
Royal Dutch/Shell is now not only the most profitable oil company in the 
world but the most profitable corporation of any kind.<P>
When such a company envisions a fundamental transition in power generation 
from fossil fuels to renewable energy beginning in two decades, a 
transition that will have a significant impact on every aspect of our 
lives, the prediction is worth examining in some detail. Chris Fay, the 
chairman and CEO of Shell UK Ltd., said in a speech in Scotland last year, 
"There is clearly a limit to fossil fuel. . . . Shell analysis suggests 
that resources and supplies are likely to peak around 2030 before 
declining slowly. . . . But what about the growing gap between demand and 
fossil fuel supplies? Some will obviously be filled by hydro-electric and 
nuclear power. Far more important will be the contribution of alternative 
renewable energy supplies." <P>
Fay presented a detailed analysis of future trends in energy supply and 
demand, noting that the fossil-fuel peak in 2030 would occur at a usage 
level half again as high as today's. Shell's analysis does not rely 
exclusively on supply limits--after all, for decades people have been 
worried about such limits, and the supply has continued to expand--but 
also incorporates a recognition of the tremendous advances that have been 
made in renewable-energy technologies over the past two decades and that 
are expected to be made over the next two decades.<P>
Although these advances in renewables have received very little media 
attention, they have persuaded Shell planners that renewables may make up 
a third of the supply of new electricity within three decades <I>even if 
electricity from fossil fuels continues to decline in cost</I>. An "Energy 
in Transition" scenario that they have prepared does not assume price 
increases in fossil fuels--also, as we have seen, a plausible 
hypothesis. Nor does Shell assume any attempt by governments to 
incorporate environmental costs into the price of energy, even though 
every single independent analysis has found that fossil-fuel generation 
has much higher environmental costs than non-fossil-fuel generation has. 
According to Shell's strategic-planning group, "The Energy in Transition 
future can claim to be a genuine 'Business as Usual' scenario, since its 
energy demand is a continuation of a long historical trend, and the energy 
is supplied in a way which continues the pattern."<P>
Indeed, in the past fifteen years the Department of Energy, working with 
the private sector, has reduced the costs of electricity from <A 
HREF="http://www.biomass.org/">biomass</A> 
(such as crops and crop waste) and wind, bringing them into the current 
range of wholesale costs for coal and other traditional sources of 
electricity: three to five cents per kilowatt-hour.<P>
A quiet revolution has already brought the United States almost eight 
gigawatts of biomass electrical capacity. Gasifying biomass and using 
advanced turbines could bring biomass power to 4.5 cents per kilowatt-hour 
within a decade, according to the <A HREF="http://www.nrel.gov">DOE's 
National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory.</A> Shell projects that by 2010 commercial energy from biomass 
could provide five percent of the world's power; using Shell's 
projections, we estimate that the value of that power generation could 
exceed $20 billion.<P>
Over the past fifteen years electricity from <A 
HREF="http://solstice.crest.org/renewables/re-kiosk/wind/index.shtml">wind 
power</A> has declined in 
cost by 10 percent a year. The problems of the windmills that were rushed 
to market in the 1970s, such as noise and TV interference, have largely 
been solved. With the DOE's help the old wind-turbine blades, borrowed 
almost directly from aircraft-propeller design, have been replaced with 
sophisticated blades designed to capture wind energy efficiently over a 
broad range of wind speeds and direction. Utilities are already receiving 
long-term bids for electricity from wind at 4.5 cents per kilowatt-hour in 
the best wind sites in the country. With a continued public-private 
partnership in technology advancement, wind could hit three cents per 
kilowatt-hour by 2020, and soon after that wind-power plants' annual sales 
could reach $50 billion.<P>
<A 
HREF="http://www.history.rochester.edu/class/solar/cells.htm">Photovoltaic 
(PV) cells,</A> which convert sunlight into electricity, now cost 
one tenth what they did in 1975. The DOE has invested heavily in new 
thin-film PV panels, which take advantage of U.S. expertise in 
semiconductor fabrication. Shell expects that PVs, along with fuel cells 
and small gas-fired power plants, will permit the growth of 
distributed-power systems. In developing nations distributed sources can 
obviate the need for huge power lines and other costly elements of an 
enormous electric-power grid (much as personal computers replace large 
mainframe computers). PV modules sold worldwide totaled less than four 
megawatts in 1980 and now exceed 80 megawatts a year; sales continue to 
grow. The Energy in Transition scenario predicts that photovoltaics and 
other direct conversions of sunlight will be the most rapidly growing form 
of commercial energy after 2030. Sales could quickly exceed $100 billion. 
Shell itself has bought two photovoltaics companies.<P>
This scenario, a highly credible one given Shell's reputation, is 
tantalizing, because it holds out the possibility that the world could 
within a few decades begin to realize the dream of nearly pollution-free 
energy. Consider also that the United States, which is now the leader in 
most areas of renewables technology, could simultaneously reduce its 
dependence on foreign energy supplies, reverse the trend toward an 
ever-increasing energy trade deficit, and capture a large share of what 
promises to be perhaps the largest new job-creating sector of the 
international economy.<P>
This is only a scenario; our actions today can have an impact, either 
positive or negative. According to Chris Fay, of Shell, "New technologies 
cannot leap from laboratory to mass market overnight. They must first be 
tested in niche markets, where some succeed but many fail. Costs fall as 
they progress down the 'learning curve' with increasing application." The 
long-term nature of research, and the real potential for failure, are why 
many options must be pursued at once and why many private-sector companies 
have been reluctant to invest. Fay observes, "Renewables will have to 
progress very quickly if they are to supply a major proportion of the 
world's energy in the first half of the next century. . . . They can only 
emerge through the process of widespread commercial experimentation and 
competitive optimization."<P>
Federal investments clearly make a difference in technology development 
and global market share. Consider the case of photovoltaics. In <A 
HREF="http://www.att.com/timeline/tline50b.html">1955 Bell 
Laboratories</A> invented the first practical PV cell. Through the 1960s 
and 
1970s investments and purchases by NASA, the Pentagon, and the <A 
HREF="http://www.nsf.gov/nsf/nsfpubs/guide/intro.htm">National 
Science Foundation</A> helped to sustain the PV industry and gave America 
leadership in world sales. In 1982 federal support for renewable energy 
was cut deeply, and within three years Japan became the world leader in PV 
sales. The Bush Administration began to increase funding for solar energy 
and, in 1990, collaborated with the American PV industry in efforts to 
improve manufacturing technology; three years later the United States 
regained the lead in sales in this rapidly growing industry. The Clinton 
Administration has accelerated funding for PVs.<P>
Sadly, however, the cuts of the 1980s have taken their toll: in the past 
decade German and Japanese companies snapped up several major American PV 
companies, which accounted for 63 percent of the PVs manufactured in the 
United States. Such purchases represent huge savings for our foreign 
competitors. They don't have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to 
determine which technologies succeed. They need only let the United States 
do the basic research, and then spend a few tens of millions of dollars 
plucking the winners when the federal government abandons funding for 
applied research.<P>
Although many members of Congress argue that the cuts in federal R&D will 
be made up for by the private sector, historically this hasn't happened. 
When the government pulls out of an area of technology, it sends a signal 
to the industrial and financial communities that the area has no long-term 
promise and that the federal government is not a reliable partner. The 
situation is especially bad today, because recent studies make clear that 
private-sector R&D has been fairly flat since 1991, and because U.S. 
companies have been shifting away from basic and applied research toward 
incremental product and process improvement--a shift that has been 
exacerbated by increased international competition and the downsizing of 
corporate laboratories.<P>
In addition, whereas the federal government only recently, and 
temporarily, increased funding for renewable energy, reversing the deep 
cuts of the 1980s, our foreign competitors have been steadily increasing 
such funding for a decade and a half. Whereas we once spent several times 
as much as the rest of the world combined, the rest of the world now 
significantly outspends us. Moreover, countries such as Germany, Japan, 
Denmark, and the Netherlands have far greater financial incentives for 
renewable energy. And their prices for electricity are typically much 
higher: in 1991 electricity cost Germany's industrial sector 8.8 cents per 
kilowatt-hour, whereas in the United States it cost 4.9 cents per 
kilowatt-hour. That means renewable energy will be cost-effective in 
foreign countries before it is in America.<P>
The primary competitive advantage the United States has had in renewables 
is technological leadership driven by long-term federal spending prior to 
the early 1980s and then the spending in the early 1990s. Recently 
Congress cut renewable-energy funding by 30 percent, and its multi-year 
budget plan calls for overall cuts of 60 percent or more by the year 2002. 
The cuts will have two effects.<P>
First, the transition to renewables that Shell envisions will probably be 
slowed somewhat, since America remains the leader in many relevant 
renewables technologies and U.S. government funding remains a sizable 
fraction of R&D funding worldwide. The transition, however, even if 
slowed, seems inevitable at some point in the middle of the next century. 
<P>
Second, when the transition occurs, the United States will miss what may 
well be the single largest new source of jobs in the next century. Mature 
areas like automobile manufacturing and aerospace haven't been significant 
net job producers for the country in two decades. The most highly promoted 
new area--the information revolution--is unlikely to provide as 
many jobs as manufacturing can, because making duplicate pieces of 
information generates many fewer new jobs than manufacturing duplicate 
pieces of hardware. Yet according to Shell's numbers, annual sales in 
renewable-energy technologies may hit $50 billion in 2020 and almost $400 
billion in 2040. In the later year such an industry would support several 
million jobs.<P>
Moreover, as said above, the United States will be importing $100 billion 
worth of oil annually ten years from now. With prudent federal investment 
today, that might be the peak, and we might then see a gradual decline as 
U.S. technology and domestic fuels, including homegrown biomass, replace 
imported oil. With Congress's cuts, however, we may be only augmenting our 
debilitating trade deficit in oil with an equally debilitating trade 
deficit in oil-replacing technologies.<P><br>
<CENTER><b>Preventing Pollution</b><P>
</CENTER><font size=5>T</font>he renewables revolution, inevitable or not, 
won't spell the end 
of the nation's or the world's environmental problems. In Shell's scenario 
overall fossil-fuel use will increase steadily for decades, peaking in 
2030 at a level half again as high as today's, and will not dip below 
current levels until 2100. If we are to achieve genuine 
prosperity--higher living standards accompanied by improved 
environmental quality--we will need to do better.<P>
Consider one of the nagging environmental problems around the world: urban 
air quality. Most cities have dark surfaces and less vegetation than their 
surroundings, creating a "heat island" that affects climate, increases 
energy use, and decreases habitability. Buildings' dark roofs and 
inadequate shade in summertime raise the demand for air-conditioning, so 
more power and pollution are generated. Heat islands raise the temperature 
of many cities by as much as five degrees, increasing the production of 
smog, which is typically created in hot weather. Finally, urban heat 
islands exacerbate all heat waves, contributing to summer fatalities.<P>
We know the basics of how to cool a city: Buildings need shade trees, and 
buildings, roads, and parking lots require light-colored surfaces. Cooler 
roads might cost slightly more initially, but they would probably last 
20&#173;50 percent longer because they reduce thermal wear and reduce 
ultraviolet damage. Over a twenty-year period trees could be planted 
cheaply, and roads, roofs, and parking lots could be resurfaced during the 
course of normal maintenance, saving the country billions of dollars a 
year.<P>
Clearly, the mitigation of urban heat islands is an important effort. The 
federal government has a crucial role to play in research and testing to 
help identify and develop the best roofing and paving materials, in 
funding computer models for determining the optimal approach to cooling a 
city, and in disseminating information in the nation and the world.<P>
This energy-saving, pollution-avoiding approach would be part of a much 
broader shift in the nation's environmental policy, which is vital if we 
are to be a prosperous country in the next century. The environmental 
paradigm that has predominated since the 1960s has been based on the 
notion that pollution is an inevitable by-product of business and that 
public- and private-sector efforts should be aimed at cleaning up that 
pollution after the fact or safely disposing of it in land, water, or the 
atmosphere. This so-called end-of-pipe approach is increasingly being 
challenged not only on environmental grounds but also on economic ones. 
Michael Porter, a professor at the Harvard Business School, wrote in the 
<A 
HREF="http://www.hbsp.harvard.edu/Web/hbsshow/hbr/backissue/sepoct95/article7.htm">September-October, 

1995, issue</A> of the <I>Harvard Business Review</I>, 
<P><blockquote>
When scrap, harmful substances, or energy forms are discharged into the 
environment as pollution, it is a sign that resources have been used 
incompletely, inefficiently, or ineffectively. Moreover, companies then 
have to perform additional activities that add cost but create no value 
for customers: for example, handling, storage, and disposal of 
discharges.</blockquote><P>
The traditional end-of-pipe approach involves three kinds of economic 
waste: two identified by Porter (using resource inputs and pollution 
outputs inefficiently) and the societal costs associated with the myriad 
harmful side effects of resource overuse (for example, dependence on 
foreign oil) and of pollution (such as human illness and agricultural 
loss).<P>
Because of the close connection between energy production and consumption 
on the one hand and pollution on the other, the Department of Energy 
provides a substantial majority--70 percent--of all federally 
funded <A 
HREF="http://www.em.doe.gov/poluprev/intro.html">pollution-prevention</A> 
R&D. Pollution-prevention technologies take a 
variety of forms. Renewable energy prevents pollution in the production of 
electricity. Fuel cells offer the hope of preventing pollution in the 
transportation sector. Many other sectors of the economy have equally 
great prevention opportunities.<P>
As Yergin's task force noted, <A 
HREF="http://syssrv9.nrel.gov/documents/eren/success.html">in the past two 
decades a DOE investment 
totaling about $1.1 billion in energy-efficient industrial technologies 
has yielded "approximately $2.5 billion in documented energy savings and 
net productivity gains, and the accumulation of these savings continues to 
grow at increasing rates."</A> By 2000 these investments will be 
generating 
savings of about $10 billion a year. Very few other federal investments 
produce as great a societal return on taxpayers' dollars.<P>
One technology, a process for dezincing (removing the galvanized coating 
from) scrap steel, provided the breakthrough that industry needed in order 
to recycle up to 10 million tons of scrap metal annually. By 2005 
electrochemical dezincing could reduce raw-materials costs by $150 million 
a year, saving 50 trillion BTUs in the process, and reduce the need to 
import at least 70,000 tons of zinc, for further savings of at least $70 
million annually. Another government-funded technology, vacuum-pressure 
swing adsorption, which is now used in manufacturing 15 percent of the 
glass made in the United States, reduces glassmaking emissions of nitrogen 
oxide by 90 percent and cuts furnace energy use by 25 percent.<P>
Something that is not widely understood is that most industrial pollution 
in the United States comes from the country's seven most energy-intensive 
industries: steel, aluminum, petroleum refining, chemicals, pulp and paper 
products, glass, and metal casting. These industries account for about 80 
percent of the energy consumed in U.S. manufacturing and for more than 90 
percent of the hazardous waste. They represent the greatest opportunities 
for increasing energy and resource efficiency while reducing pollution. 
That's why the DOE has been forming partnerships with these industries to 
develop clean technologies.<P>
Funding for pollution prevention is the best way for the nation to avoid 
the need for costly environmental regulations. The government has a role 
in encouraging pollution prevention for several reasons. First, 
pollution-prevention technologies often benefit each of many companies 
only a little bit, so no one company has an incentive to spend the 
necessary money by itself. Second, prevention has many societal benefits: 
it reduces energy and other resource consumption and improves the 
environment, among other advantages. Third, and most important, pollution 
prevention and resource efficiency help companies to shift money from 
consuming energy and resources to investing in technology and capital 
equipment, thus creating jobs and economic growth. Indeed, a shift from 
consumption to investment may be the single most important transformation 
the U.S. economy must undergo if we are to remain prosperous in the next 
century.<P>
A 1993 analysis for the DOE attempted to quantify the macroeconomic 
benefits of <A HREF="http://146.138.5.107/EPIC.EXE?EPIC">pollution 
prevention.</A> The study found that a 10&#173;20 
percent reduction in waste by American industry would generate a 
cumulative increase of $1.94 trillion in the gross domestic product from 
1996 to 2010. By 2010 the improvements would be generating two million new 
jobs, or roughly 1.5 percent of employment in that year. According to the 
study, this is "a relatively large impact considering that the investments 
driving it were assumed to be made for purposes other than increasing 
employment."<P>
Moreover, this analysis does not include the jobs to be gained from 
capturing the large and growing export market for clean technologies and 
processes. Resource inefficiency and environmental degradation are very 
real limitations on the attempts of developing nations to raise the living 
standards of their people, especially since most of those nations do not 
have the abundance of resources with which America is endowed. The World 
Bank estimates that by 2000 the countries of Asia alone will need to spend 
about $40 billion a year on clean technologies. By then the global market 
for environmental services and technologies is expected to exceed $400 
billion. The resource, environmental, and capital constraints on the 
developing world guarantee a rich export market for the nation that leads 
the world in developing clean technologies.<P>
As Michael Porter wrote in the <I>Harvard Business Review</I>, 
<P><blockquote>
We are now in a transitional phase of industrial history in which 
companies are still inexperienced in handling environmental issues 
creatively. . . . The early movers--the companies that can see the 
opportunity first and embrace innovation-based solutions--will reap 
major competitive benefits, just as the German and Japanese car makers did 
[with fuel-efficient cars in the early 1970s]. </blockquote><P>
That's why foreign governments are forming partnerships with their 
nations' companies to develop clean technologies: to overcome inexperience 
and ensure that they reap the benefits of early strength in the field. <P>
The Japanese government is betting heavily on clean technologies and 
renewable energy. It is vigorously pursuing the Asian environmental market 
through the Green Aid Plan, which is designed to help Asian countries 
prevent water and air pollution, recycle waste, conserve energy, and 
develop alternative energy sources. In 1993 Japan quadrupled funding for 
the Green Aid Plan, to $120 million.<P>
Germany, too, is moving in this direction, with regulations that 
increasingly push industry toward prevention, recycling, and life-cycle 
analysis. Proposed or pending regulations throughout Western Europe have 
implications for U.S. companies, as noted in a 1993 report prepared for 
the <A HREF="http://www.saturnmedia.com/96press/mfg/environ.htm">Saturn 
Corporation</A> by the University of Tennessee <A 
HREF="http://www.ra.utk.edu/eerc/clean2.html">Center for Clean 
Products and Clean Technologies:</A> "European auto manufacturers are the 
current world leaders in car recycling and the use of life-cycle 
assessment to design environmentally superior cars." <P>
One of the countries most attentive to prevention is the Netherlands, 
which spends about $500 million a year on environmental 
technologies--equivalent on a per capita basis to $9 billion in the 
United States. More than a third of that money is spent on pollution 
prevention. The Netherlands also uses its tax code to promote clean 
technologies by allowing firms that practice innovative pollution 
prevention to depreciate their investment in one year instead of over ten 
years.<P>
Congress, in contrast, has cut by a third the Department of Energy's 
proposed budget for the development and deployment of energy-efficient and 
pollution-prevention technologies--a step that threatens U.S. 
leadership in this crucial area. Congress has proposed still deeper cuts 
in its multi-year budget plans--cuts that would deny U.S. companies a 
great many opportunities to compete and the nation as a whole the 
opportunity to capture a big piece of a market whose potential is equal to 
that of renewable energy: several hundred billion dollars a year. <P>
Even the vitally important urban-heat-island-mitigation program described 
above has gone unfunded. For the 1995 and 1996 budgets the DOE asked for 
$2 million--a tiny sum by federal-government standards--for a <A 
HREF="http://eande.lbl.gov/EAP/AR/ueei/ueei3.html">Cool 
Communities program,</A> to take the idea beyond the realm of small-scale 
testing. Like many programs that save energy in a cost-effective way, the 
program would also reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, whose increasing 
prevalence in the atmosphere may be changing the earth's climate. The 
department included the Cool Communities program in its <A 
HREF="http://www.eren.doe.gov/partnering/epse/cc_wise.html">Climate 
Change 
Action Plan,</A> to meet the nation's international commitment to try to 
limit 
greenhouse gases.<P>
In both years Congress zeroed out the Cool Communities program. Why? 
Whereas the pre-1994 Congress was skeptical of global climate change, the 
new one is downright hostile to the concept, with some labeling it 
"trendy"and "scientific nonsense." <P>
Yet at a meeting last December of the <A 
HREF="http://www.unep.ch/ipcc/ipcc95.html">Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate 
Change,</A> representatives of 120 governments agreed that "the balance of 
evidence . . . suggests a discernible human influence on global 
climate."In a 1995 study scientists examined detailed records of weather 
over the past hundred years and concluded that weather extremes--heat, 
drought, excessive rain, or the kind of blizzard that the Northeast 
experienced in January--are becoming more common and that the extreme 
weather is almost certainly due to human-generated emissions of greenhouse 
gases.<P>
<I>The Economist </I>concluded last October, "Climate change is a 
legitimate worry. Although still riddled with uncertainties, the science 
of climate change is becoming firmer: put too much carbon in the 
atmosphere and you might end up cooking the earth, with possibly 
catastrophic results." <P><br>
<CENTER><b>Preparing for the Future</b><P>
</CENTER><font size=5>S</font>ome argue that energy forecasts are 
notoriously inaccurate and 
that for the Department of Energy to base decisions on them is risky. We 
cannot, of course, say with certainty that an oil crisis will occur in the 
next decade, that a transition to renewable energy will occur as Shell 
envisions, or that industry worldwide will shift to pollution prevention. 
But each of these things seems very plausible, if not likely.<P>
Another criticism often leveled at the DOE is that it has had big, 
expensive failures, such as the synthetic-fuels program, but few 
successes. The department has learned from experience, however, and its 
R&D portfolio is diverse, emphasizing small-scale technologies that have 
in fact been remarkably successful in the past. The recently concluded 
independent review of the department's energy-research portfolio cited 
dozens of examples of such technologies, among them a $3 million 
investment in energy-efficient windows made in the late 1970s, which has 
already saved U.S. taxpayers more than $1 billion in lower energy bills; a 
polycrystalline diamond drill bit that has reduced the cost of drilling 
for oil by $1 million per well; and many of the advances described above, 
including photovoltaics.<P>
Diversity is a key element of DOE policy today: diversify the world's oil 
supply, and diversify America's domestic supply and end-use options. 
Because no one can predict the future with certainty, or know the outcome 
of R&D in advance, the DOE must invest in many options. The sharp cuts 
that Congress is pursuing narrow the country's options and leave us far 
less flexibility to respond to future crises and opportunities.<P>
Finally, some argue that government investments are "corporate welfare," a 
term implying a giveaway with no societal benefits. But the DOE has formed 
partnerships with the private sector to develop leapfrog 
technologies--such as the fuel cell, solar energy, and clean 
industrial, building, and transportation technologies--that will 
benefit many segments of our society.<P>
Americans today have a duty to eliminate the deficit, rooted in their 
obligation to future generations, but the country also needs to 
acknowledge that public investment in R&D, far from being corporate 
welfare, is an investment in America's own future. As the Yergin task 
force wrote, Americans have an obligation to "assure for future 
generations that our Nation's capacity to shape the future through 
scientific research and technological innovation is continually being 
renewed."<P>
The cuts planned for the energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy 
program--30 percent this year and 60&#173;80 percent over the next 
several years--far exceed the cuts planned in overall domestic 
discretionary funding to balance the budget. The impact of such cuts will 
be enormous. <P>
Perhaps the only way to begin to realize the loss to the future is to look 
at the past. Federal investment in research and development for national 
needs has been one of the great success stories in twentieth-century 
America. Why does the United States retain leadership and strong exports 
in vital industries like aerospace, computers, and biomedicine? American 
ingenuity and the private sector have certainly been instrumental in each 
of these industries. Yet these industries have also enjoyed government 
support for decades. Who can doubt that a sustained high level of federal 
funding--eight times as much money as America's leading competitor 
provides--is responsible for U.S. leadership in biomedical and 
biotechnological research?<P>
As for computers and software, the Pentagon's <A 
HREF="http://www.arpa.mil/">Advanced Research Projects 
Agency</A> "virtually single-handedly created the United States' position 
of 
world leadership in computer sciences," according to a Harvard Business 
School case study on ARPA. And of all R&D dollars spent in the aircraft 
industry from 1945 to 1984, some 85 percent came from the federal 
government. In an unexpected benefit of the kind that is common in federal 
R&D, much of the turbine technology that is today generating electricity 
and helping to keep down utility rates had its roots in government-funded 
work on jet engines.<P>
John Preston, formerly the director of technology development for the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, told Congress in 1993, "It seems 
clear that when the government teams up with academia and industry, and 
participates throughout the spectrum of technology, the United States 
becomes dominant in that industry." America's technological lead in most 
kinds of fuel cells and photovoltaics stems from almost two decades of 
NASA, National Science Foundation, and Pentagon support, followed by 
almost two decades of DOE support.<P>
Some of the most pressing national needs in the coming decades are to 
reduce the country's huge and growing trade deficit in oil, to minimize 
any economic or political threat that might arise from the growing world 
dependence on Persian Gulf oil, to prevent pollution, to avoid 
irreversibly changing the global climate, and to capture a large share of 
the enormous potential market for energy and environmental technologies. 
Remarkably, a great many of the 
same R&D investments can simultaneously achieve all these ends while 
cost-effectively reducing the energy bills of businesses and consumers. 
Equally remarkably, Congress demonstrates an overwhelming desire to gut 
the funding for investments by the energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy 
program, although it costs Americans only $4.00 per person a year.<P>
Nothing is clearer to those who study the matter than that the world is on 
the verge of a revolution in energy and environmental technologies--a 
revolution made possible by more than two decades of U.S. government 
investment. This revolution can be expected to create a number of 
industries that collectively will provide one of the largest international 
markets and one of the largest sources of new high-wage jobs in the next 
century, with annual sales in excess of $800 billion.<P>
Yet just as our foreign competitors are starting to catch on to the major 
trends in this American-led revolution, Congress wants to pull the federal 
government out of every relevant technology, leaving America on the 
sidelines, perhaps for good. Only a misbegotten ideology could conceive a 
blunder of such potentially historic proportions.<P>


<BR>

</blockquote>
<HR>


<P><blockquote>

Joseph J.  Romm is the acting principal deputy assistant secretary for 
energy efficiency and renewable energy of the U.S.  Department of Energy.  
He is the author of <i>Defining National Security </i>(1993) and <i>Lean 
and Clean Management: How to Increase Profits and Productivity by Reducing 
Pollution </i>(1994).<p>

Charles B.  Curtis, an attorney, is the deputy secretary of the U.S.  
Department of Energy.  From 1977 to 1981 he served as the first chairman of 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

</blockquote>

<P>





		


</blockquote>





<hr>





<pre></pre>


<nobr>








<a href="#top">


<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">


<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





<a href="../home.htm">


<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>





<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">


<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>





</nobr>





<p> <font size=1> Copyright &copy; 1996 by The Atlantic Monthly Company.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
The Atlantic Monthly; April 1996; Mideast Oil Forever?; Volume 277, No. 4;
page(s) 57-74.</font>








</BODY>


</HTML>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-37</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B030-146</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/newdeal.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117190822 text/html 56199
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:08:08 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:28 GMT
Content-length: 55993
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
The Next New Deal
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>April 1992</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

The Next New Deal

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Neil Howe and Phillip Longman</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>A call for a comprehensive reform of our trillion-dollar system of federal entitlements, which favors the rich over the poor, the old over the young, and consumption over savings, and in other ways 
	makes no economic or social sense
</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>W</font>ith the coming of the Next New Deal, Americans will look back and marvel at what became of our old welfare state--that tangle of inequity and dysfunction once known as federal entitlements. Why did the public tolerate a system that wound up distributing most of its benefits to the well-off? And how did the economy survive its costs?<P>
History books will no doubt concentrate on a few choice examples of the conditions that finally forced a wholesale reform. Readers may learn, for instance, that by 1991 the federal government's largest housing subsidy program was providing an average of $3,000 a year to each of the six million wealthiest households in America, while offering nothing to the 36 million Americans in poverty.<P>
To qualify for this particular benefit, called the home-mortgage deduction, you had to borrow using your first or second home as collateral. And the more you borrowed, even if it was to finance a chalet in Aspen-
or just a ski trip to Aspen--the more subsidy you would receive from other taxpayers. By 1991 the cost of the home-mortgage deduction had risen to $37 billion, of which 81 percent went directly to households with incomes over $50,000. Meanwhile, economists bemoaned the anemic U.S. personal savings rate, which in the late 1980s fell to its lowest level since the 1930s.<P>
The U.S. health-care system a quarter century after the announcement of the Great Society will also provide future historians with rich examples of the conditions that led to the next New Deal. How to explain that the U.S. economy staggered under the highest per capita health-care costs on earth, and still 23 million Americans under the age of thirty-five were uninsured for any medical care at all?<P>
Stranger yet was what happened to these uninsured Americans, and to everyone else, if they happened to live to be sixty-five. After that birthday a citizen, regardless of income, became entitled to take part in a program called Medicare, which would pay for everything from CAT scans to pacemakers, from chiropractic to orthopedic recliners. In 1991 Medicare spent nearly $19 billion subsidizing the health care of households earning $50,000 or more. That year government experts projected that the mounting cost of Medicare would cause the program to collapse within fifteen years, and that if current trends continued, total health-care spending would rise to an economy-shattering 44 percent of the gross national product by 2030. No one listened.<P>
Gold-plated pensions for federal employees will also no doubt be held up by future historians as emblematic of the decadence of late-twentieth
century political culture. By what accident of history were military and civil service retirees with incomes over $100,000 collecting $9.2 billion from the U.S. Treasury in 1991? For half this sum the official poverty rate for all American elderly could have been reduced to zero. At the very least, Congress could have done something about the $1.4 trillion in unfunded federal pension liabilities on the books. But the House of Representatives was busy with other business at the time--such as voting itself a controversial pay hike that would later be remembered for its explosive impact on pension costs. Retiring in 1991, a typical congressman looked forward to $1,098,735 in lifetime benefits; by 1993 the figure had risen to $1,523,263.<P>
Finally, there was the program originally designed to offer all Americans what President Franklin Roosevelt's brain trusters called "a floor of protection" against destitution in old age. But over the course of more than half a century Social Security had evolved into something radically different. By 1991 the system was distributing more than 555 billion a year, or more than a fifth of its benefits, to households with incomes above $50,000 a year. For that much money the government could have provided every American with cradle-to-grave insurance against poverty
-including the one American child in twenty who lived in a household reporting a cash income during 1991 of less than $5,000.<P>
For many years the worsening inefficiency and inequity of the U.S. social
welfare system seemed to make little impression on American political opinion. Political leaders as diverse as Newt Gingrich, George Bush, Bill Clinton, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan expressed alarm at the moral hazard of providing welfare benefits to poor unwed mothers. But few political leaders worried about the moral hazard--and incomparably larger cost--of subsidizing home-equity loans for rising young stockbrokers, granting free medical care, PX cards, and half pay for life to ex-colonels at age forty
two, passing out farm payments to affluent agribusiness owners, or writing checks to globetrotting senior citizens which got forwarded to Bermuda. It was convenient to assume that free lunches corrupted only the underclass.<P>
As the 1990-1992 recession lingered, forcing local governments to cut teachers' pay, ignore the raving homeless, and fence off sagging bridges, state governors turned to Washington, where politicians shrugged their shoulders and pointed to a budget bursting with entitlement programs running on auto pilot. Meanwhile, ordinary Americans wondered what was happening to their nation's public sector. It could afford neither to build for the future nor to care for the needy--despite unprecedented borrowing, a near-record level of taxation, and sinking defense outlays that by the fall of 1992 had reached their lowest share of GNP since Harry Truman ran for President. With the vaunted post-Cold War Peace dividend" evaporating, the United States found itself unable to invest adequately in either its infrastructure or its children. Eventually people began to talk of another Great Depression, before the coming of the next New Deal.<P>
<BR>
<b>A Welfare State for the Affluent</b><P>
Rudolf Goldscheid, the socialist economist, once observed, "The budget is the skeleton of the state stripped of all misleading ideologies." By now federal entitlement spending has become so pervasive in American life-
not just among the poor but most notably among the middle class and the affluent--that one cannot make sense of our politics or the condition of our economy without considering how this spending rearranges the nation's resources and defines our choices as a society.<P>
Ever since the early 1980s, when the United States lost control of its fiscal policy, the term "entitlements"--referring to all federal benefit payments to individuals--has been part of the American political lexicon. Today the twelve-digit numbers that first worried budget experts back in the late 1970s look positively quaint--although events have proved that the growth of entitlements is indeed the leading cause of the nation's long-term structural deficits. This year the cost of federal benefits is larger than was the entire federal budget when Ronald Reagan arrived in Washington with a mandate to slash the welfare state.<P>
All told, entitlements have become a trillion-dollar river. The main current includes more than $700 billion in direct outlays, received by at least one member of roughly half the nation's households. These expenditures account for more than 45 percent of all federal spending, and are more than twice as large as the amount consumed by defense. Another flow of nearly $200 billion is distributed in the form of tax subsidies to individuals, such as the home-mortgage deduction and the exclusion for employer-paid health care. These explicit breaks in the tax code are the moral and fiscal equivalent of the government's simply mailing a check. To pay for them, other people's taxes have to be raised, other benefits have to be cut, or the deficit has to be increased.<P>
The accumulating burden is not about to ease. Our economy shows no sign of "outgrowing" the cost of entitlements, as many partisans of Reaganomics, along with many liberals, once hoped. Though the relative cost typically rises and falls with the business cycle, it has always emerged from each new recession larger than it emerged from the last. In fiscal year 1992 federal benefit outlays alone u ill exceed 12 percent of GNP, the second highest level ever. Including tax benefits, the total cost of federal entitlements amounts to well over 15 percent of GNP, and Congress now projects that it will climb steadily through the late 1990s. For the first time, the economy should not expect any post-recession relief.<P>
Who benefits from this spending? Until recently no one really knew. Budget experts, to be sure, have always pointed to a few eyebrow-raising numbers. Consider the fact that of all federal benefit outlays, only a quarter flows through programs that require any evidence of financial need--and that even this "means-tested" quarter includes such middle
class staples as student loans and VA hospital care. Consider also that only one of every eight federal benefit dollars actually reaches Americans in poverty. But reliable income figures for all recipient households have simply not been available. Cash-income surveys conducted by the Census Bureau are plagued by high rates of underreporting (especially by the wealthy). Tax-return data from the Internal Revenue Service are more accurate, but do not cover the entire population (especially the poor).<P>
Several years ago, however, growing curiosity on Capitol Hill persuaded the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office to try to unravel the mystery. By merging the Census and IRS data sources, CBO economists ultimately arrived at reliable and comprehensive estimates of benefits by household income. The estimates were circulated behind closed doors during the 1990 budget summit and have since been updated-- though they have never yet been published. The benefit income statistics we cite throughout this article are based on these CBO estimates, which cover about 80 percent of all federal benefit outlays.<P>
These numbers destroy any ideological myths Americans may cling to about who gets what from government. They offer an accurate glimpse of that "skeleton of the state"--which has too long been locked in the political closet.<P>
The CBO research demonstrates, in fact, that the most affluent Americans actually collect slightly more from the welfare state than do the poorest Americans. It shows that last year U.S. households with incomes over $100,000 received, on average, $5,690 worth of federal cash and in-kind benefits, while the corresponding figure for U.S. households with incomes under $10,000 was $5,560. Quite simply, if the federal government wanted to flatten the nation's income distribution, it would do better to mail all its checks to random addresses. The problem is not that poverty programs don't target the poor. More than 85 percent of the benefits from AFDC, SSI, and food stamps do indeed go to households with incomes under $20,000. But their impact is neutralized by all the other programs, which tilt the other way and are, of course, much greater in size.<P>
The trend over time is also unsettling. Liberals sometimes attribute the growing disparity of income in America to Reagan-era cuts in targeted poverty programs. Among the very poorest households that is indeed one cause. From 1980 to 1991, in consent dollars, the average federal benefit received by households with incomes under $10,000 declined by seven percent. Yet liberals typically overlook the gentrification of America's untargeted nonpoverty programs, which has been pushing even more powerfully to widen the gap between rich and poor. During those same eleven years, among households with incomes over $200,000 the real value of average benefits received (mostly Social Security, Medicare, and federal pensions) fully doubled.<P>
But thus far we have been considering only direct outlays. When we include the value of entitlements conveyed through the tax code, the bias in favor of the well-off becomes even more pronounced.<P>
<BR>
<b>Tax Expenditures and Other Subsidies</b><P>
Such tax subsidies date back to 1918, when patriotic fervor for U.S. troops in Europe was running high. Political leaders in Washington felt they should do something dramatic to reward the doughboys. Facing a tight budget, Congress hesitated to raise veterans' benefits directly. But then someone on Capitol Hill took a look at the five-year-old federal income
tax system and came up with a nifty idea: Why not "raise" veterans' benefits simply by exempting such benefits from the tax?<P>
Over the years many more "tax expenditures" have followed, nearly all of them--like the first--created entirely off budget, without estimating eventual cost and far from the scrutiny that normally accompanies direct appropriations. Several, including the exemptions for Social Security benefits and for employer-paid health care, were created not by Congress but by offhand IRS rulings in the 1930s and 1940s. At the time, no one paid them much notice, because tax rates were low, Social Security benefits were modest, and company health plans were rare. But in fiscal year 1992 these two rulings alone are costing the federal government nearly $90 billion, which is more than the Pentagon's total budget for weapons procurement.<P>
Though tax expenditures as a political art were invented during the First World War, the term itself dates back only to the mid-1960s, when it was coined by Stanley S. Surrey, a Harvard Law don who served as assistant secretary of the Treasury for Ox policy in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. In the course of his battles with Congress over tax policy, Surrey was struck by the fact that Congress w as increasingly using selective tax reductions for specific groups of people, rather than direct appropriations, as a means of distributing public resources.<P>
Surrey's favorite example was the deduction for medical expenses. He explained that this tax provision had precisely the same impact, both on the budget and on the public, as a multibillion-dollar benefit program that heavily favored the very rich (because they pay taxes at the highest rates) and that entirely excluded the very poor (because they don't pay Axes at all). There was indeed only one big difference: the same Congress that created the tax provision would never dare to create the benefit program.<P>
Although the tax-expenditure concept has been widely accepted by economists over the past thirty years, it strikes many Americans the wrong way. A common complaint is that the concept somehow assumes that government "owns" all your income before doing you the favor of letting you keep part of it. This is not the case. The concept simply assumes that each person owes the government according to a general rate schedule superimposed on every person's ability to pay. Whatever violates such equal treatment is deemed the equivalent of a benefit outlay--the same, that is, as a check in the mail.<P>
From the dogmatic insistence that there is no such thing as a tax expenditure, any number of absurdities must follow: for instance, that a public policy exempting all circus clowns from paying income taxes would not be a public benefit to circus clowns--who would simply be keeping more of "their own" money. Who cares if keeping more of "their" money means taking more of someone else's? Or if it means bankrupting everyone's kids? The ultimate thrust of this line of reasoning is to deny that a society can consent to and act upon any equitable principle of public sacrifice. Accordingly, all taxation is inherently unjust, and though cheating on your taxes may be legally wrong, it cannot be morally wrong.<P>
It is no surprise that many well-off Americans, uneasy about their nation's loss of fiscal discipline, find consolation in this pugnacious illogic. What is surprising is to hear conservatives leading the chorus. Back in the early 1970s, strange to say, many of these same intellectuals pushed Nixon's ill-fated "negative income Ox," the very premise of which is that less tax is the precise equivalent of more income. But during the 1980s they have become the preachers of a selective civic virtue-
austerity for targeted benefits to the poor and indulgence toward shotgun tax favors to the affluent.<P>
Today, even though the government publishes estimates of the cost of different tax expenditures, this form of spending still attracts comparatively little attention. But by now the numbers involved, and their social and economic effects, are too large to ignore. Honest people can and do differ over what constitutes a genuine tax expenditure, as opposed to "equitable" treatment--say, for investment income or charitable donations. According to some, ability to pay should be measured by what a person earns; according to others, by what a person consumes. But even if we confine our list of tax expenditures to those that contradict any principle of ability to pay--that is, to those that nearly all economists can agree on--the total fiscal cost comes to at least $170 billion. Those tax expenditures arbitrarily reward millions of lucky people for such endeavors as financing a built-in sauna, hiring an au pair, or getting the boss to pay for the therapist.<P>
<P>


This spending is regressive in the strictest sense of the word. Even when poorer households qualify for these benefits (and often they do not), what they receive is smaller, relative to their income, than what goes to the affluent. According to the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, for example, last year the average value of the mortgage-interest deduction for taxpayers with incomes over $100,000 was $3,469. In contrast, the same deduction was worth an average of only $516 for taxpayers in the $20,000 to $30,000 bracket who qualified to take the benefit--and of course many, including renters and those who opted for the standard deduction, did not.<P>
When we add together all the tax expenditures and all the direct outlays for which we have 1991 income data-- and this is about 80 percent of each type of entitlement--an unambiguous picture emerges. On average, households with incomes under $10,000 collected a total of $5,690 in benefits. On average, households with incomes over $100,000 collected $9,280. In terms of total fiscal cost, moreover, the aggregate amounts received by the non-needy in 1991 were staggering. One half (at least $400 billion) of all entitlements went to households with incomes over $30,000. One quarter (at least $200 billion) went to households with incomes over $50,000. These are the facts--regardless of what our political folktales might say.<P>
How did our entitlement system wind up delivering most of its benefits to people who are clearly not in need? Obviously, the overall spending pattern does not conform to any master plan. Congress never passed a "Comprehensive Welfare for the Well-Off Act." Rather, the system we see today is the inadvertent legacy of thousands of why-not-please-everybody votes on Capitol Hill--together with economic and demographic trends that no one anticipated.<P>
Nor does any conspiracy lie behind the way Americans have chosen over the past decade to finance the growth of entitlements. They have done so through deficit spending--the result of a persistent ideological deadlock between cutting spending and raising taxes. Each side, unfortunately, has reason to regret the outcome. On the one hand, those who prevented significant reform in the welfare state have worsened any prevailing trend toward inequity by income and class. On the other hand, those who urged that it is better to finance the welfare state through debt than through taxes have burdened Americans with a new layer of inequity by age and generation.<P>
These are the conditions leading to the coming of the next New Deal--a new deal that is needed to restore both fairness and efficiency to our trillion-dollar entitlement budget. The U.S. social-welfare system has by now come to resemble a ramshackle mansion on a hill, with squeaky back stairways and barren hallways leading to musty, sealed-off chambers.<P>
Open this door and behold the federal railroad retirement system--a Christmas gift from Congress to the railroad industry in 1935, still chugging after all these years, at an annual cost of $7.8 billion. That crowing in the pantry is the sound of $50,000, on average, in direct federal payments being snatched up by each of the 30,000 biggest
grossing farmers in America. Not one of them looks like Pa Joad. And down this hall you'll find the bonanza-baby nursery, filled with Americans born from 1910 through 1916, whose Social Security benefit levels are higher than those of anyone born before or after. Can anyone remember why? What about that thumping noise? Maybe it's the so-called one percent "kicker" from the 1970s, which still inflates civil-service pensions.<P>
This is a structure, leaky and drafty and wildly expensive to heat, that was tolerably suited to its previous owners but now requires radical remodeling. What would FDR, architect of the original New Deal, have said if he had learned that by 1991 a fifth of American children would be living in poverty--still ill housed and ill nourished--while a fifth of the dollars spent by major federal benefit programs went to households earning $50,000 or more?<P>
Fortunately, the system can be made to work again. But before the next New Deal can happen, Americans will have to start viewing entitlements as a whole, and debating comprehensive reforms.<P>
<BR>
<b>Welfare for the Well Off</b><P>
Even if our current entitlement system were sustainable well into the twenty-first century--and it is not--most Americans would still have good reason to demand a new deal. Consider how little we as a nation are getting back for the money we are spending: no national health insurance plan, no maternity benefits or family allowances such as are available in Germany and France, no guarantee against falling into poverty or even becoming homeless-- in old age or at any other time of life.<P>
In 1990, for example, the federal government handed out an average of $11,400 worth of benefits to every American aged sixty-five or over-
more than ten times what it gave to each child--yet 3.7 million senior citizens still languished below the poverty line. Many of the latter receive a "means-tested" benefit-- Supplemental Security Income. But for an elderly person living alone in 1990 the federal SSI program offered a maximum cash benefit of 74 percent of the poverty level, or $4,632 annually. That same year, while 18 million Americans earning less than $15,000 at full-time, year-round jobs "contributed" their FICA dollars, a CEO and spouse could retire and expect to receive more than $24,000 annually in tax-sheltered Social Security and Medicare benefits, in addition to their corporate pension and "medigap" plan, and sundry forms of private investment income.<P>
Why doesn't the welfare state do a better job of actually insuring against poverty? The bottom-line reason is that we divert too many resources to the affluent.<P>
The most stunning illustrations of welfare for the well-off come in the form of entitlements conveyed through the tax code. Consider, for example, the exclusion from taxation of most Social Security income along with the insurance value of Medicare benefits, which together cost the Treasury about $34 billion last year. The households that receive the largest favor are those with the most income. In fact both these tax expenditures may be regarded as especially insidious forms of back-door spending, since they simply add to the already top-heavy distribution of Social Security and Medicare benefits. For the 37 percent of senior citizens who regularly vacation abroad, these tax subsidies are enough to pay for a few extra days of shopping in tropical ports of call. But they do little for another 40 percent of senior citizens who owe no tax on their Form 1040 because they aren't as well off. This is why every other major industrial nation regards all or nearly all of its social-insurance benefits as taxable income.<P>
The same point applies to the child-care credit which cost the government more than $3 billion last year. Households with incomes below $10,000 received virtually no benefit from this tax subsidy. Those with incomes above $z0,000, however, received $1.2 billion to help pay for nannies and other child-care expenses.<P>
For the really big bucks, take a look at the exclusion for employer-paid health care. Under this provision, those Americans fortunate enough to receives health-care insurance from their employers are allowed to exclude the value of their insurance from both income and payroll taxation. Last year this single tax expenditure cost the U.S. Treasury $60 billion in forgone revenue.<P>
Who benefited? Obviously, no one among the 35 million people not covered by any form of health insurance or among the 32 million people who pay for their plans out of their own pockets. These 67 million Americans are twice as likely to live in poverty as are all other Americans. But that is only part of the inequity. Among households that were covered by employer-paid health-care plans, the average benefit for those in the highest income brackets was many times larger than the average for those in the lowest income brackets. Moreover, most economists agree that such large subsidies encourage their beneficiaries to overconsume health-care services, and thus put even more inflationary pressure on a system already in crisis. Who will argue with an employer who offers a Gold Plan" package that provides generous coverage for every medical contingency, from orthodontia to nose jobs to psychoanalysis, as long as it's tax-free?<P>
It is much the same story with most other entitlements conveyed through the tax code. Not only are they inequitable in their distribution of benefits but also they contribute to gross distortions in how the U.S. economy allocates resources. In addition to overconsuming health care, for example, affluent Americans tend to overconsume powder rooms and swimming pools and vacation homes at the expense of more-productive investments--thanks to the mortgage deduction and other tax subsidies for owner-occupied real estate. One result of all these tax favors: the hospitals and homes of Grosse Point and other affluent suburbs of Detroit are far more luxurious than any to be found in, say, the suburbs of Yokohama or Stuttgart. But only in Detroit do the suburbs surround a burned-out, deindustrializing core. Not coincidentally, every major industrial society except the United States pays for little (or none) of its health care with tax-sheltered insurance, and tightly restricts (or prohibits) any deductions for interest on home mortgages.<P>
To the rule that says most tax subsidies go to the wealthy, there is one exception: the Earned Income Tax Credit. First enacted in 1975, the EITC is the closest America has ever come to a negative income tax. But its effect on the overall picture is negligible. Even after including the EITC with all the other tax expenditures mentioned above, the bottom line is still that the rich receive by far the largest benefits.<P>
Households with incomes below $10,000, for example, receive an average of $131 a year from all these tax-subsidy programs combined. Middle
class households do better: those with incomes in the $30,000 to $50,000 range receive tax benefits averaging $1,483. But it is the truly affluent who receive the greatest subsidy: the average benefit for households with incomes over $100,000 is $3,595 a year, or nearly thirty times what goes to households most in need.<P>
<BR>
<b>The Weight of Reality Upon Ideology</b><P>
Why have Americas put up for so long with such flagrant malfunctioning of their social-welfare system? Part of the explanation must lie in today's political culture, which by the standards of FDR's crusading generation has remained exceptionally cautious in its thinking about the major institutions of the welfare state, and preoccupied with mere process issues. Meanwhile, as the decades have passed, the earth has been slowly shifting beneath the major monuments of the first New Deal. The old assumptions will not hold.<P>
When Social Security first started paying out benefits, for example, the elderly were by far the most destitute age group in American society. As recently as 1969,25 percent of American elderly were officially designated "poor"--as were only 14 percent of children under age eighteen. Today the relative positions of the very old and the very young are just about reversed: in 1990, 12 percent of the elderly and 21 percent of children were poor. Other indicators, such as noncash income, financial assets, and homeownership rates, also show that the typical elderly household is now considerably better off than the typical young family. At the same time, as we have seen, millions of the elderly continue to live in poverty. And yet Social Security continues to distribute none of its benefits on the basis of need.<P>
We live in a world radically different from that of FDR's generation. How touching it is for the historian to read that New Deal planners once projected that Social Security's survivors' and unemployment benefits would steadily reduce means-tested family assistance. The assumption, of course, was that widows were the only single mothers struggling to raise children. That 13 million children would be living with single nonwidowed mothers in 1990 was simply unthinkable. And how maddening it is for today's married woman to learn that she won't receive Social Security benefits based on her earnings unless she makes at least half her husband's salary throughout her working life. It should come as no surprise that a social welfare system designed to serve the America of Benny Goodman and Norman Rockwell now stands in need of serious structural repair.<P>
We also live in a world radically different from that of the Johnson and Nixon presidencies, when the steepest increases in entitlement spending took place. In that era renowned economists wrote books about the "challenge of abundance" and testified before Congress about how Americans would soon enjoy a twenty-two-hour workweek. In 1972, on the eve of Social Security's largest single benefit hike, the system's actuaries projected that henceforth real U.S. wages would forever rise at the rate of 56 percent every two decades--an assumption that made almost anything affordable. Looking back, that sort of economic euphoria seems as dated as 2001:A Space Odyssey. What has in fact happened over the twenty years since 1972 is that real wages, as defined by the actuaries, have grown by hardly more than four percent. Polls indicate that most Americans are no longer confident that today's children will do as well economically as their parents--and indeed they will not, unless the country frees up the resources it needs to undertake wide-scale investments m improving productivity. Sixty years after the New Deal there is virtually no connection between the pattern of entitlement spending and any coherent public purpose. So why is reform so often regarded as impossible?<P>
Part of the reason is ideological. Throughout the Reagan years the allure of supply-side economics persuaded many conservatives that reforming entitlements was no longer necessary; with tax cuts and deregulation, the nation could simply "outgrow" them. The party that once fought losing battles against the New Deal could thereby dish the Whigs and painlessly rid itself of its plutocratic reputation. Liberals, meanwhile, have been slow to grasp how an ideal that was once taken as the nation's highest expression of community has evolved into a system that serves the interests of economic royalists at the expense of the common man.<P>
Today reality is gradually wearing away these ideological misconceptions. Still, the reform of any single entitlement program is blocked by highly organized special-interest groups, from the graypower and pension lobbies to the agribusiness, construction, and health-care industries. Even affluent beneficiaries who may be uncomfortable accepting government money don't like feeling singled out for sacrifice. The Palm Beach retiree, for example, won't go along with higher taxes on his Social Security benefits just so that the yuppie down the street can get another tax break.<P>
What is needed is a comprehensive approach to entitlement reform--one that cuts not only direct spending but also tax expenditures for the well
off. In this way entitlement reform could avoid becoming a contest between generations. By putting every form of government spending on the table, America could also end that long-running, sterile debate between those who want to cut spending and those who want to cut taxes. Genuine reform could at last be what it should be: a more equitable and productive redirection of the nation's limited resources.<P>
<BR>
<b>The Peace Dividend Is Not Enough</b><P>
But couldn't we get by, many readers will ask with just staying the course? Won't the end of the Cold War free up enough resources so that we won't need to take on entitlement reform?<P>
The short answer is no. A world at peace won't be enough to right the nation's fiscal imbalance.<P>
As we mentioned earlier, benefit outlays accounted for 45 percent of all federal spending in calendar year 1991. Yet this conventional measure of the cost of entitlements, large as it is, underestimates their practical importance. First, it includes only the benefits themselves, not the cost of administering them. Add on a minimal five percent overhead, and the total rises to 48 percent of the budget. Second, a fair measure would compare entitlements only with other types of spending that are adjustable, not with spending that is entirely beyond anyone's control. So let's subtract net interest payments on the national debt ($199.4 billion) and last year's payments on the S&L bailout ($101.8 billion). Both are obligations that must be met in order to avoid a devastating financial panic. Now the total rises to 60 percent of the budget. Finally, let's figure in the $170 billion in benefit-like tax expenditures. This pushes the total up to just over 65 percent of the budget.<P>
The bottom line might be summarized this way: Entitlements, defined as the full cost of both direct and taxcode benefits, amount to two thirds of the federal spending over which government has some control.<P>
A large part of the remaining third is defense spending. The cuts now scheduled will help, but alone they are clearly insufficient. Consider that even eliminating the entire blaring Corps would not defray the annual cost of military pensions. In fact, even if the Department of Defense were abolished and all the armed forces disbanded, the U.S. Treasury would still not be able to pay this year's bills without borrowing. As for the small corner of the budget still dedicated to "discretionary" civilian projects-
everything from running parks, regulating polluters, and sheltering runaway children to building highways, testing superconductors, and arresting drug traffickers--as a share of GNP that corner has been smaller since the late 1980s than at any other time since the late 1950s. It is unlikely that Americans could achieve major savings in this catchall budget area without curtailing some of the vital core services they expect from government. Most policy discussions instead favor more of this type of spending, which no doubt would already be larger today were it not perpetually crowded out by the metastasizing of universal benefits.<P>

Another question, still sometimes heard in post-Reagan America, is "Why reform entitlements or even worry about the deficit when we can always just raise taxes?" But the answer is clear enough: The revenue option won't work because it won't happen. One can find many polls showing that most Americans favor the concept of a means test for benefits. But one cannot find any poll showing that more than a small minority of Americans favor a large, general-purpose tax hike.<P>
This anti-tax sentiment is linked to widespread cynicism about government, especially the federal government, which should make many liberals think twice before dismissing entitlement reform. Quite simply, those who want more taxes and bigger budgets must first demonstrate that government can apply commonsense priorities to the money it is already spending. Anyone waiting for public attitudes to change spontaneously should take a closer look at America's rising generation of voters under thirty--not just at their Republican sympathies, which incline them against taxes anyway, but at their intense distrust of unkeepable promises, breakable chain letters, and crocodile tears. What the typical new voter most distrusts, in short, is just the sort of rhetoric that still enshrouds our welfare state.<P>
<BR>
<b>Unfavorable Demographics</b><P>
Each decade since the first New Deal, from the 1930s through the 1980s, entitlement spending has grown faster than the economy. Under our current system it is certain to do so in future decades as well, especially once the oldest members of the enormous postwar Baby Boom generation begin reaching retirement age, just sixteen years from now. Today more than 60 percent of all federal benefit spending flows to the 12 percent of Americans who are age sixty-five or older. As long as the welfare state allocates most benefits on the basis of seniority alone, the cost will grow geometrically as the size of the elderly population increases. In combination with the aging of the population, improvements in medical technology will likely cause per capita health care costs to continue growing several times as fast as per-worker GNP.<P>
Demographic data easily numb the mind, but one can gain an intuitive sense of what all this means for government spending by considering just how favorable demographic trends have been for the United States in recent years. During the 1980s the 76 million members of the Baby Boom generation moved into their prime productive years--old enough to have mastered job skills but too young to retire. The result was an automatic surge in federal revenue--especially since the women of this generation have been far more likely than their mothers to work for wages, and therefore to contribute taxes.<P>
Meanwhile, demographics have also been favorable to the spending side of the budget. The growth rate of the retirement-age population has actually been slowing down since the mid-1980s, owing to the declining birth rates of the late 1920s. Yet the United States is still running enormous budget deficits. What will happen when these favorable demographic trends turn into unfavorable trends, beginning around 2010?<P>
Since 1960, federal benefit outlays alone have grown from roughly five percent to 12 percent of GNP. No one knows, of course, what the future may bring. But if one adopts the economic, demographic, and medical assumptions used by the Social Security Administration and the Health Care Financing Administration. the total cost will rise much further over the next fifty years, perhaps to 71 percent of GNP (best case) or to 30 percent of GNP (most plausible case). And this assumes not a single new program or eligibility provision. Outlays of this magnitude would threaten to crowd out not only all forms of public and private investment but also any hope that government might respond to new social needs. Ultimately, even huge tax hikes would merely cover the growing cost of programs whose original intentions had long been forgotten.<P>
Well before we reach such nightmare fiscal scenarios, moreover, the income inequity of the U.S. welfare state will become painfully obvious. Look ahead to the year 2000, when today's unusually affluent Americans in their fifties begin to retire. This is a cohort of lifelong upward mobility whose average household wealth in retirement (according to the economists Frank Levy and Richard Michel) is likely to exceed that of all living Americans born either before or after them. Then consider the position of today's young adults-- handicapped by unstable family backgrounds, an inferior education, and stagnating entry-level wages. By the year 2000, while raising families amid growing talk of yet another hike in the payroll tax, they will cast searching eyes at the abundance of their elders. In her recent book Social Insecurity the former Social Security commissioner Dorcas Hardy does not hesitate to link the issues of age, income, and race. "As we move into the next century," she asks, "will the minorities of this country--immigrants and otherwise-- come to see the Social Security system as a mechanism by which the government robs their children of a better future, in order to support a group of elderly white people in a retirement that is both too luxurious and too long?"<P>
Take it from someone who once ran the system: the entitlement crisis is not about to go away if we just ignore it.<P>
<BR>
<b>A Comprehensive Reform</b><P>
Overhauling the O.S. welfare state so that it serves our national goals will entail enormous changes, most likely including a wholesale restructuring of the U.S. health care system. But in the meantime we Americans can make federal entitlements much more equitable and free up the resources we need to cut our fiscal deficits and boost our national savings, by acting on a simple if far-reaching principle. The principle is that one's benefits should be proportional to one's need--whether the subsidy comes in the form of health insurance or a farm subsidy or a mortgage-interest deduction or a Social Security check.<P>
How might such a principle be applied to the existing welfare state and how much money would it save? Any reform package should satisfy the three most common objections to a cost-control effort. First, it should not reduce the income of any household that is anywhere near the poverty line. More precisely the half of all U.S. households that report incomes over $30,000 should be asked to bear nearly all the extra burden.<P>
Second, any reform package should adjust benefits according to a graduated scale, so that middle- and upper-income households do not become net losers just because they happen to rise a few dollars above a certain threshold. Nor should earning a high income become a disqualification for receiving any subsidy. To preserve the universal character of our major entitlement programs, members of every household, regardless of income, should still stand to gain some benefits, albeit in proportion to their needs.<P>
Third, any comprehensive reform must take into account the quasi
contractual nature of at least some entitlement programs. This last proviso is the toughest to accommodate, but not as tough as is sometimes thought.<P>
Strongly rooted in American political folklore, for example, is the idea that Social Security recipients are only "getting their money back," that Social Security is an "inviolable contract," and so forth. But such claims have no financial or even legal basis, however much certain politicians and interest groups may claim otherwise. True enough, the original Social Security Act of 1935 included a "money back" guarantee (with some interest) on all employee contributions, and called for benefit levels to be calculated on the basis of the lifetime covered wages earned by each individual. But the guarantee was eliminated by Congress in 1939, and the link between benefit levels and years of participation, after being weakened in 1939, was entirely discarded in 1950.<P>
Ever since, the U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled that no covered worker retains any right, contractual or otherwise, over taxes paid into the system. In fact, the Social Security Administration keeps no direct records of how much each person contributes. It just keeps records of each person's wage history, to which a politically determined benefit formula is applied when that person retires. Today's retirees, as it happens, receive benefits north two to ten times what they would have earned had they invested all their lifetime Social Security taxes (both their own and their employer's) in Treasury bonds. Meanwhile, largely because of the very steep increases in Social Security taxes in recent years. most economists agree that under current law Social Security will not offer large categories of younger participants anything approaching a fair market return on what they paid into the system.<P>
So there is no reason that Social Security benefits for the well-off cannot be reduced if a majority of Americans decide that their collective resources should be used for different purposes. The same is true for civil-service and military pensions, although here the case is much stronger that an implied contract exists between well-off pensioners and the government.<P>
Before the 1970s federal employees worked for lower wages than their counterparts in the private sector. One reason they did so was the expectation of receiving government pensions far more generous than any offered by private-sector employers. Even today, no private pension offers benefits at such an early age, at such a high percentage of pay, with such lenient provisions for disability, or with such generous indexing. Moreover, because these government pension programs were never funded on an actuarially sound basis, current taxpayers are now unjustly stuck with a huge tab for yesterday's unwise policy.<P>
Still, these benefits are part of the compensation that was promised at the time--a distinction that makes a moral if not a legal difference and ought to limit benefit reductions even to the most affluent federal pensioner.<P>
Applying our simple principle would not require a big new bureaucracy. All means-testing could be achieved exclusively through tax returns, much as we now handle the limited taxation of Social Security for households with adjusted gross incomes over $25,000. Each filer would be required to enter all benefits received, which could be checked against federal records. Above certain limits the total would trigger a "benefit
withholding" liability, which the filer would send back to the IRS along with any outstanding income-tax liability. As a practical matter, federal benefits could be withheld just as wages are withheld, based on a tax filer's previous experience.<P>
How would benefit-withholding rates be set? Here are a few illustrative options, with estimates of how much money they would have saved in calendar year 1991 alone. For all cash and in-kind entitlement programs except federal employee pension plans: Withhold 7.5 percent of any benefits that cause total household income to exceed $30,000, and withhold an additional five percent at the margin for each additional $10,000 in household income. The maximum reduction of benefits would be 85 percent, applicable to households with incomes of $190,000 or more. Total savings: $33.5 billion.<P>
For civil-service and military pensions: Same as above, but with a much lower maximum withholding rate, in deference to the quasi-contractual nature of these benefits. The maximum reduction of benefits would be 25 percent, for households earning $70,000 a year or more. Total savings: $7.6 billion. <P>
For all major entitlement benefits conveyed through the tax code except benefit exclusions: Limit the amount of such tax expenditures received by upper income households to the average expenditure per household within the $30,000 to $50,000 bracket. In 1991, for example, this would have limited the total allowable mortgage interest deduction to roughly $2,500. Total savings: $34.7 billion.<P>
For benefit tax exclusions: Get rid of all income thresholds and make Social Security just as taxable as any other cash income--except for 15 percent of pro reform benefits. This untouched residual will offer, to even the wealthiest of today's retirees, at least a five percent tax-free return on all contributions they have personally paid into the system. Also, for households with incomes from $30,000 to $50,000, phase out half of the tax exclusion on the insurance value of Medicare (net of Medicare Part B premiums). Total savings: $16.9 billion.<P>
Altogether, these provisions, if they had been in place in 1991, would have freed up $93 billion in the federal budget. To be sure, no one would advocate instituting all of them in one year, especially in a bad recession year. But imagine that they were phased in over four years--starting, say, in 1993. Assuming that income brackets were adjusted for inflation, and using official budget and revenue projections, total annual savings would rise to $149 billion by 1996. That would be enough to ensure that the next recovery is a genuine investment-led expansion, not another borrow-and
consume bacchanalia.<P>
The budget savings could be considerably higher. The figures noted here reflect only about 80 percent of all federal entitlements and tax expenditures, those for which income distributions are known. The extra 20 percent included, total budget savings in 1996 could rise to more than $186 billion. Furthermore, trimming subsidies to the affluent reduces their incentive to take advantage of available benefits. Thus, to the extent that it would prompt middle- and upper-income Americans to forgo benefits altogether--for example, by retiring later, or by opting for less tax-sheltered health insurance and housing--the measure would clearly save taxpayers more than the amount a static calculation would indicate.<P>
Because all the savings would be collected through the tax code, a single piece of legislation, falling under the jurisdiction of the tax committee in each house, would be sufficient to implement the reform. Imagine doing the same job by amending every benefits statute: the process would snake through dozens of committees, grind on for years if not decades, and ultimately be undone by interest groups.<P>
This approach also has the virtue of treating all Americans fairly, according to their individual circumstances, unlike most other reform proposals--for example, limiting all cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs). Even a COLA freeze that discriminated against large monthly benefits would lead to obvious inequities. For a widow receiving no income other than one large Social Security check, a COLA may be essential to keep food on the table. For a triple-dipping federal pensioner receiving the minimum Social Security benefit, that same COLA may be just enough to cover the annual rise in greens fees at the club. An income-based approach takes account of the difference. Unlike most government agencies, moreover, the Internal Revenue Service is well trained in tracking dollars no matter how far they Gavel. Even the farm subsidy that filters down through five partnerships before appearing as personal income will have to show up, earmarked, on someone's Form 1040.<P>
Politically, this approach balances the sacrifices asked of elderly and working-age Americans, without raising tax rates and without burdening the poor or even most of the middle class. Moreover, the plan would reduce specific programs in rough proportion to their overall size in the budget. Roughly half the savings would come from Social Security and Medicare and the related taxation of benefits. An additional 40 percent would come from other programs and tax expenditures, especially employer paid health care and mortgage interest. Another eight to nine percent would come from federal pensions.<P>
Would such a reform in and of itself constitute another New Deal? Hardly. The measures it would comprise are, however, the essential preconditions for the next New Deal. Without them the United States will simply see more and more of its options as a nation crowded out by the compounding costs of our subsidies to the well-off.<P>
As always, every area of federal spending should be scrutinized. Missionless bombers must be cut. Porkbarrel waterways must be eliminated. Welfare programs targeting the poor must undergo further changes, to require the able-bodied to work and to reduce the cycle of dependency. But none of these areas is where the big money is, and it is not by reforming them that the United States will free up the resources it needs to build a more just and productive society in the next century.<P>
Whatever one's vision of that new society--whether it includes a national health service or means-tested health vouchers, a negative income tax or a 15 percent flat tax, green cars running on hydrogen or mag-lev trains humming from city to city--to get something new, one must give up something old. A society that cannot find the resources to pay for sixty
cent tuberculosis vaccinations for ten-year-olds must ask itself why it is 
offering subsidized health care and housing to millionaires. Call it a 
rendezvous with destiny.<P>
<br>
	
</blockquote>

<hr>
<blockquote>Neil Howe is a co-author of On Borrowed Time: How the Growth in Entitlements Spending Threatens America's Future (1988); Generations: The History of America's Future, 1588-2069 (1991);  and 13th-Gen: Abort, Delete, Retry, Fail? He is also the chief economist of the National Taxpayers Union Foundation, in Washington, D.C.<P>
Phillip Longman is a journalist specializing in politics and public policy. His articles have appeared in many national publications, including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times Magazine, The New Republic, and The Washington Monthly. He is also the author of Born to Pay: The New Politics of Aging in America (Houghton Mifflin, 1987), as well as many other works on entitlements, competitiveness, and U.S. fiscal policy. Currently the senior editor of Florida Trend magazine, a politics and business magazine located in St. Petersburg, Longman has been the recipient of numerous awards for journalism, including the Investigative Reporters and Editors' award for best investigative reporting in 1990. He is currently at work on a book about entitlements and middle-class values.<P>

</blockquote>
<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1992 by Neil Howe and Phillip Longman.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>

</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-38</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B042-135</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/family/kidsasca.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117195229 text/html 28674
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:52:27 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:51:23 GMT
Content-length: 28468
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
Kids as Capital
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>August 1989</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

Kids as Capital

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Jonathan Rauch</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>When we grow old, we do not depend directly on our own children. Instead, 
we depend on other people's children.</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>A</font>mericans like to think of their children as a source of pleasure rather 
than profit. Recently, when I asked people I know why they had had 
children, they talked about family values, about the kind of people they 
want to be, about the kind of world they want to leave behind. The one 
reason for having children that never came up was economic need.<P>
This is a curious thing, when you stop to think about it. Not so many 
generations ago people had children because they needed them. In those 
simpler, more agrarian days, a child was an extra set of hands to help 
support the family. And a child was insurance against being left 
unsupported and indigent in one's dotage. Earlier cultures didn't have the 
luxury of thinking of children as strictly a nonprofit venture. And the 
truth is, we don't either. Socializing many of the costs of old age let us 
think for a while that we had transcended the ancient economics of family. 
Now it seems that we were kidding ourselves.<P>
Children are very expensive--in terms of time, career, opportunities 
forgone, and cash. Thomas J. Espenshade, of Princeton University, has 
calculated that a middle-class family with two children is likely to spend 
about $100,000 to rear each child to age eighteen. And because people 
today are less likely to have children and the ones who do have children 
are having fewer of them, the American fertility rate is barely half what 
it was thirty years ago, when the Baby Boom was at its peak. Of the 
children that we do have, a higher proportion have been impoverished in 
this decade than at any other time since 1965: as of 1987 one in five 
American children lived in a poor family--this when the economy was 
strong. Forty-six percent of all black children lived in poverty in 1987; 
so did 40 percent of all Hispanic children. In New York City 38 percent of 
the children are poor. Why all this matters to the middle class may not be 
immediately obvious--which is just the problem. If boys and girls grew up 
to become industrial machinery instead of men and women, it would be easy 
to see that everybody had a stake in other peoples children.<P>
"Kids are a form of capital," David P. Hale. the chief economist of Kemper 
Financial Services, in Chicago, told me recently, when I asked him what 
was behind all the talk about "investing" in children "There was always an 
intellectual camp running around saying these things. But suddenly the 
intellectual camp has a following, out of need." As the sparse generation 
of the Baby Bust enters the work force, business is discovering that the 
supply of qualified young workers is tightening.<P>
This same sparse generation will have to undertake the potentially 
staggering burden, starting early in the next century, of paying the 
public costs of their parents' dependency. Inexorably, the 
intergenerational circle closes. Here is a question that every working-age 
American might do well to ask himself; If we have fewer kids, and if more 
of the ones we do have are slouching toward adulthood from poverty then 
how generously am I going to be supported in my old age?<P>
The past half century has established as a basic principle of American 
life that we will pay for other people's retirements. Today, as we face 
the need to nurture our work force and safeguard our retirements, the 
question forcing its way onto the agenda is how much more we will pay for 
other people's children. More out of necessity than out of choice, a new 
redistributional politics is emerging--a politics of redistribution from 
the childless to the child-rearing.<P>
It is no accident that George Bush, a pro-business, more or less 
conservative Republican, has proposed a European-style children's 
allowance. The proposal, a per-child federal subsidy for parents, would 
help only the poorest and is modest in scale--so modest that many liberals 
sneer at it, perhaps unwisely. A lot of the critics miss the point. 
Conceptually speaking, the Bush children's tax credit is a political 
preview of the next few decades.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE FUTURE NEEDS KIDS</b><P>
The national "family," having had fewer children, is going to find early 
in the next century that its labor force has stopped growing. New entrants 
into the work force are already becoming a scarce commodity, at least 
relative to what the country has been accustomed to. Projections are 
showing that in the 1990s the U.S. labor force will grow more slowly than 
it has at any time since the 1930s. Fully a third of the new entrants into 
the work force between now and the turn of the century will be members of 
minority groups. Those future minority workers are today's minority 
children--among whom the rates of poverty and illiteracy are highest. On 
average, poor children grow up to make poor workers. Poor workers generate 
lower standards of living for society--and for their old parents. The 
primordial interdependence of generations ultimately makes itself felt, 
albeit at the level of the national unit rather than the family unit.<P>
"The two ways that a society provides for its future," Frank Levy, an 
economist at the University of Maryland, told me, "are its level of 
physical capital accumulation"--that is, the number and quality of its 
machines, factories, roads, and so on--"and the number and the quality of 
its kids. In both cases, you can cheat on the accumulation and, by doing 
that, raise your current consumption. But eventually it comes back to 
haunt you."<P>
Right now about one in eight Americans is sixty-five or older. That will 
start changing fast, as the Baby Boom generation marches in unprecedented 
numbers across the line between work and retirement. According to 
projections by the Census Bureau, by late in the 2020s one in five 
Americans will be sixty-five or older. As the proportion of dependent 
elderly people in the adult population rises, the number of workers 
supporting each of them must fall. And that is exactly what is going to 
happen. The number of working-age people on hand to support each elderly 
person will drop by almost half, from almost five in 1990 to about two and 
a half by 2030 or so.<P>
This is a retirement burden whose like no generation of American workers 
has yet borne. John L. Palmer, of Syracuse University, has figured that 
the federal tax take will have to rise by an amount equivalent to at least 
five percent of the gross national product, and quite possibly a good bit 
more, to cover the health and pension costs of the Baby Roomers' 
retirement. Today the government takes in about 19 percent of the GNP in 
taxes. So we are talking about at least a 25 percent federal tax 
increase.<P>
Economically the burden is probably manageable. The important question is 
whether it is politically manageable. The country is already moving to 
raise the retirement age (thus increasing the worker-to-retiree ratio), 
and it's likely to have to reduce benefits to the elderly somewhat. But 
cutting benefits is politically inflammatory and, for those affected, 
personally wrenching. We can ease the need to take either step by making 
the workers we have more productive, getting more workers, or some 
combination of the two. For instance, we could save and invest more. That 
should boost the future productivity of the economy, making the retirement 
bill more affordable. Or we could import workers. Immigration, which 
brings new talent and muscle and youth to an aging population. is one of 
our richest resources--potentially a major advantage over Japan and the 
many European countries, like West Germany and France, that are aging even 
more rapidly than we are and that lack our immigrant tradition.<P>
Unfortunately, in a population as big as ours immigration can do only so 
much, and it is no substitute for seeing that the native labor force is 
adequately skilled. As for saving, the trouble is that we're saving less 
than we used to, not more, as our big budget deficits and low personal 
savings rates make clear. Besides, the better machines and equipment that 
we would presumably use our savings to invest in do not look after 
themselves; they tend to require better workers to run them. Inevitably, 
then, the discussion comes around to having more children or more
productive children or both--taking steps to replenish the child-capital 
stock, as it were.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>POLITICIANS NEED KIDS</b><P>
Many countries have long worried explicitly about the number and quality 
of their children; among the industrial countries, indeed, the United 
States is an oddity for its lack of an explicit or coherent family policy. 
Most of our allies and competitors run big redistribution programs to 
transfer money from people who don't have children to people who do. In 
some cases the rationale is out-and-out pronatalism: the idea is to get 
people to have more children, usually for cultural reasons even more than 
economic ones. France, in particular, has a long tradition of concern 
about the birth rate. Valery Giscard d'Estaing when he was the French 
President, once said, "A society no longer capable of assuring the 
replacement of generations is a condemned society." Many of the Western 
European programs that transfer money to families with children began as 
attempts to buy more children, although that goal has often faded away 
over time and been supplanted by social-welfare concerns.<P>
Eastern Europe, in contrast, remains explicitly pro-baby. Rumania doubled 
its fertility rate practically overnight after it took measures, in 1966, 
that sharply curtailed the availability of abortion, divorce, and 
contraception. (As it turned out, much of the effect was temporary.) 
Hungary, East Germany, Bulgaria, and Czechoslovakia took the less 
intrusive, but very expensive, route of providing big economic inducements 
to parents--tax incentives, birth payments, preferential housing programs, 
paid maternity leave, and so on. According to one estimate, Hungary's 
inducement package paid more than a third of the costs of rearing 
children.<P>
Scholars who have examined incentive-based pronatalist programs generally 
conclude that over the long run they raise the birth rate very little, if 
at all--no doubt because government inducements of any practical size are 
overwhelmed by the total costs of rearing children and by considerations 
of life-style. (How much would the government have to pay you to have a 
child? Probably more than it could afford to.) "You get a short-run effect 
mainly in the timing of births," Thomas Espenshade, of Princeton, told me. 
"The lesson from Europe on these questions has been that governments have 
a difficult time buying babies, unless they're willing to spend several 
times more than they've been willing to spend to this point." Fertility 
rates in Eastern Europe are generally higher than those in noncommunist 
Europe, but whether that is owing to pronatalism or something else is a 
mystery.<P>
We Americans come from a different tradition. People here have always 
viewed the size of their families as a matter of personal rather than 
public concern. Yet even here some people are calling for outright 
pronatalism. One of them is Ben J. Wattenberg, of the American Enterprise 
Institute, a center right think tank in Washington, D.C. Citing Census 
Bureau projections that show the U.S. population ceasing to grow by the 
decade of the 2030s, Wattenberg thinks the government should offer big-
very big--per-child tax inducements to parents. "The only pronatalist 
policy that has any chance of working is serious dollars," he said. He is 
the first to admit that such a program might not get the birth rate up 
much. But even if it didn't, he pointed out, it would help solve the 
child-poverty problem. If you want to say what's the biggest problem in 
America, and you want to put it in two very short words, it's poor kids," 
Wattenberg said. "The question is, Can you make it easier for young 
couples who want to have children to be able to have children? You have 
half a century where the basic drive of this government--properly, in my 
judgment--was a redistribution of wealth from rich to poor. That isn't 
going to wash politically anymore. But suppose you say, instead of 
redistributing from rich to poor, 'Hey, I've got a pro-family program that 
redistributes money from the childless to the child-rearing.'" That kind 
of program could get liberals and conservatives on the same side, he said. 
"It's pro-family and it's pro-kids, and it's pro-poor-kids."<P>
He has a point. The way to get people to have more children is generally 
the same as the way to relieve poverty among children, which is generally 
the same as the way to help struggling young middle-class parents; 
transfer money to families with children. That fact helps account for the 
broad support in European countries for family-benefits programs. More 
than sixty countries, including most of the industrial ones, have what are 
known as family allowances or children's allowances, which typically pay 
families for each child an equivalent of five to ten percent of the 
average wage. The benefits may or may not be taxed, but they are generally 
universally available.<P>
Furthermore, well over a hundred countries, including Canada and countries 
throughout Europe, give one or both parents cash and time off from work 
when they have a new baby--typically about four months' paid leave. It's 
also common for countries to provide preschool or other child care for 
children three or older; France, Sweden, Italy, West Germany, Finland, 
Denmark, the Netherlands, Israel, and a number of Eastern European 
countries do that. All in all, America's transfer payments to children, 
measured as a percentage of the national output are less than half those 
of, for instance, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada.<P>
Generous family benefits have not created any sort of baby boom overseas. 
But they certainly help account for the fact that child-poverty rates are 
much lower abroad than here. I asked Sheila B. Kamerman, of the Columbia 
University School of Social Work, why public benefits for families with 
children are so generous in Europe and elsewhere. "The concept," she 
replied, "is that people with children are making a contribution to 
society, in terms of producing the future labor force and the quality of 
that labor force, the quality of citizens--even, if you will, financing 
the social
security system. Children are viewed as a social resource." This is less 
true in the United States. "The only way families with children have 
sustained their income in the last fifteen years has been with increased 
labor-force participation by mothers," Kamerman said. "Families have been 
putting more and more effort into rearing children, and it doesn't seem to 
be recognized. And the society is very dependent on those children, 
ultimately."<P>
In Europe the wide appeal of pro-family policies rests on a convergence of 
political interests. The right likes programs that support bigger 
families; the left likes programs that help prevent child poverty. "We may 
be moving in a similar direction," Kamerman observed. Political pressure 
is mounting to socialize more of the costs of raising kids--that is, to 
spread the burden of child-rearing.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>BUSINESS NEEDS KIDS</b><P>
In Washington you can hardly turn around these days without hearing about 
children's and family issues. Liberals are horrified at the high rate of 
poverty among children, and they understand that the best way to get money 
to needy families is to point out that these families have needy children. 
The right, too, is fighting for the pro-family banner. Social 
conservatives have been worrying for some time about economic and social 
pressures on the "traditional" family. They are pushing initiatives to 
come to families' aid. So, it seems, is almost everyone else. You can 
practically drown under the waves of press conferences and legislative 
proposals and speeches on children and families.<P>
The social activists have a new and important ally. "In the seventies," 
Frank Levy, of the University of Maryland, said, "corporations had workers 
coming out of their ears, so they didn't have to worry about the quality 
of the work force. They could just discard what they couldn't use. But 
once you have the labor force growing slowly and you start bumping into 
scarcity, then you have to assess the quality of the whole work force, 
because you can't just throw away the bottom quarter or twenty percent. 
Then you realize that we're all in this together."<P>
Today business is making contact with the sparse generation and finding it 
lacking. Alan Magazine, the president of the Council on Competitiveness, a 
Washington-based group whose leadership includes representatives of 
business, labor, and education, remarked in an interview with me, "We 
have, in a sense, a ticking time bomb that can't be ignored anymore. Some 
people have been saying that for years, but now people in the corporations 
are really seeing it. They're seeing it in the kinds of people they're 
hiring, the amount of money they have to spend for basic learning to get 
people up to a level that they can do even menial jobs; they're seeing it 
in the results of the tests that they give hundreds of people for 
minimum-wage jobs, and the numbers of people who actually pass those 
tests."<P>
The past few years have witnessed a redoubling of business's interest in 
issues relating to children and youth--above all, education, but also day 
care, child poverty, and so on. When I asked Walter B. Wriston, a former 
chairman of Citicorp, what accounted for this, he replied flatly, "The 
reason they're interested in it is, like anybody, self-interest. It isn't 
that people are more or less sensitive to education; it's that the 
realization grows that when a college freshman can't pick out the United 
States on a map of the world, we've got a problem."<P>
It is no coincidence that pro-business Republicans in Washington are 
starting to get interested in social issues--not just as "fairness" 
issues, which Republicans regard as belonging to Democrats, but as 
"productivity" issues, which Republicans view as their specialty. When 
business talks, Republicans listen. One morning in his office late last 
year, Senator Pete Domenici--a conservative, pro-business, 
balance-the-budget Republican who represents New Mexico--startled me by 
saying that it's time for the federal government to mount a campaign 
against what he called "socio
economic drags": the effects of undereducation, drugs, and poverty on the 
children of the inner cities. "I think these are very, very dangerous 
things for our economic productivity," he said. "They're not just social 
issues." We're only going to be hearing more of this kind of talk.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>COMMON GROUND?</b><P>
Businesses can attest to the fact that transferring resources to families 
with children doesn't necessarily involve government. Corporations are 
finding themselves providing more parental-support services to their 
workers. They have to. Employees with day-care problems lose productive 
hours, and so the number of companies in this country providing some sort 
of day-care help has risen dramatically in recent years. A mother who has 
a premature baby lands her company (if it provides health-care benefits) 
with big hospital bills, and so companies have started to provide maternal 
education programs. New parents need time off from work, and so a growing 
number of companies, especially large ones, provide paid parental leave. 
All these services are expensive. Consumers, stockholders, and childless 
employees pay.<P>
Many liberals like the idea of requiring businesses to assume more of the 
costs of children--for instance, they tend to favor legislation requiring 
companies to provide their workers with some form of maternity leave. 
Conservatives abhor that approach, although they usually aren't quick to 
suggest an alternative. That is not the only difference between the left 
and the right. Liberals, who seek to remove obstacles to women's entering 
the work force, want the government to provide day-care services for 
parents. Conservatives, many of whom would prefer that women care for 
their kids themselves, would rather just give parents money (which, in 
essence, is the strategy of Bush's proposed children's tax credit).<P>
Yet there is much common ground. I recently went to talk to Gary Bauer, 
the president of the Family Research Council of America, a conservative 
think tank on family policy and social values. Bauer was President 
Reagan's domestic-policy adviser for two years, and was known as one of 
the administration's hard-core social conservatives. When I arrived at his 
office, the first thing I picked up was a newsletter calling on the 
federal government to "offer assistance to first-time home buyers." "Home 
ownership," it complained, "is financially beyond the reach of many young 
families," and "such families should not have to choose between adopting a 
two career lifestyle or remaining perpetually propertyless." This is the 
kind of conservatism that liberal Democrats, who are the long-standing 
champions of government help for the middle class, ought to be able to cut 
a deal with.<P>
Bauer told me that an important strain of American conservatism has long 
focused on families, and on the stresses they encounter in trying to meet 
their responsibilities. "One of the things that astounded me when I was in 
the administration," he said, "was that from the end of World War Two to 
the present, the only group in society that really suffered a major 
increase in taxes, after adjusting for inflation and so on, was families 
with children"--which, he said, have taken an "incredible hit." In 
particular, the tax code's personal exemption is the main tax break for 
dependents. It allows you to subtract from your family's taxable income a 
certain amount per family member (now $2,000). In 1948 the exemption was 
high enough that a typical family with three or more children paid 
virtually no federal income taxes. Today the personal exemption has been 
so corroded by inflation that it would have to be more than tripled in 
order to shield from taxation as large a share of families' income as it 
did in 1948.<P>
Bauer's group, like many conservative organizations, favors greatly 
increasing the personal tax exemption, a step that, Bauer argues, would 
help all families with children, whether the woman chose to stay home or 
to work. I asked Bauer about per-child tax credits of the sort that many 
other countries have. "There's some support in the conservative community 
for the child-allowance approach," he said; but his group is still just 
considering it.<P>
Never underestimate the ability of liberals and conservatives to overcome 
their agreements and argue to a standstill. There are profound differences 
both within and between the left and the right over who should get relief 
from the high cost of kids (two-earner families or single-earner families 
or all families? everybody or just the poor?) and in what form relief 
should be provided (tax credits? tax exemptions? subsidized day care? 
mandated benefits for employees? cash?). "Both sides have philosophical 
approaches here that neither wants to concede," Bauer said. "I think there 
may be an inclination for gridlock for a while longer."<P>
<BR>
But something will give. Unrest in the middle class will see to that. 
Today almost two thirds of women with children--and well over half of 
married women with children under six--are in the work force, whether out 
of choice or out of necessity (the comparable figures in 1960 were 30 
percent and less than 70 percent, respectively). Many of these women and 
their husbands are financially strained, and they want help with the costs 
of their kids, and they vote. That, finally, is why President Bush found 
himself proposing a children's allowance.<P>
Well, who could be against doing more for families with children anyway? 
The answer is that people who do not have children could be against it, 
because they would pay the bill. And it is a big bill. According to the 
Census Bureau, 30 percent of American families with children were getting 
by on incomes of less than $20,000 in 1987. To give significant aid to 
significant numbers of those families runs into a lot of money fast. For 
instance suppose we raised the personal exemption to $6,300, so that it 
would shield as much of families' income as it did in 1948. Each child 
would then reduce a median-income family's taxes by about $950 a year as 
against about $300 today. An extra $650 per child per year wouldn't solve 
parents' every problem, but it would certainly help. The trouble is that a 
tax cut of that size would cost the Treasury enough to almost double the 
federal deficit. Making exceptions or targeting the poor would reduce the 
cost. But it would also weaken middle-class support, because it would 
change the issue from making children cheaper for everybody to making 
children cheaper for the poor--a very different kettle of fish, 
politically speaking. The unhappy fact is that any program, public or 
private, that brings substantial relief to middle-class parents is going 
to be very expensive.<P>
When we discuss spreading through society more of the burdens of child
rearing, we are talking about transferring money from the later part of 
adulthood to the earlier, and also from those who do not have children to 
those who do. People with families would get government subsidies during 
their child-rearing years; then, as they passed into middle age and 
beyond, they would pay higher taxes to support the younger group coming 
behind. People without children would simply pay higher taxes throughout 
life. That is the essence of the new redistributional politics: the 
middle-aged, the elderly, and the childless would inevitably have to 
sacrifice more so that young parents would not have to sacrifice so 
much.<P>
Within families, this sort of spreading of sacrifice between old and 
young, between those who have kids to support and those who don't, goes on 
all the time. The problem coming before us today is how to do something 
similar in society as a whole without tearing ourselves apart 
politically.
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1989, Jonathan Rauch.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"Kids as Capital";
The Atlantic Monthly, August, 1989, issue.
Volume 264, Number 2 (pages 56-61).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-39</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA070-000436-B031-146</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/budget/stockman.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117191420 text/html 121978
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:13:33 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:43:53 GMT
Content-length: 121771
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>The Education of David Stockman</title>



</head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p><a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p><font size=4>December 1981</font><p>



					<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>The Education of David Stockman</h1></center> 



<p><center><font size=4>by William Greider</font></center>

<p><br><br>





<blockquote><i><font size=4>"None of us really understands what's going on with all these numbers."</i></font><p>



<p><br><br><p>





<b>I. How the World Works</b><p>



<p>



<font size=5>G</font><font size=3>enerally, he had no time for idle sentimentality, but David A. Stockman

indulged himself for a moment as he and I approached the farmhouse in western

Michigan where Stockrnan was reared. With feeling, he described a youthful

world of hard work, variety, and manageable challenges. "It's something that's

disappearing now, the working family farm," Stockman observed. "We had a little

of everything--an acre of strawberries, an acre of peaches, a field of corn,

fifteen cows. We did everything."<p>



<p>



A light snow had fallen the day before, dusting the fields and orchards with

white, which softened the dour outline of the Stockman brick farmhouse. It was

built seventy years ago by Stockman's maternal grandfather, who also planted

the silver birches that ring the house. He was county treasurer of Berrien

County for twenty years, and his reputation in local politics was an asset for

his grandson.<p>



<p>



The farm has changed since Stockman's boyhood; it is more specialized. The

bright-red outbuildings behind the house include a wooden barn where livestock

was once kept, a chicken coop also no longer in use, a garage, and a large

metal-sided building, where the heavy equipment-- in particular, a mechanical

grape picker-- is stored. Grapes are now the principal crop that Allen

Stockman, David's father, produces. He earns additional income by leasing out

the grape picker. The farm is a small but authentic example of the

entrepreneurial capitalism that David Stockman so admires.<p>



<p>



As the car approached the house, Stockman's attention was diverted by a minor

anomaly in the idyllic rural landscape: two tennis courts. They seemed out of

place, alone, amidst the snow-covered fields at an intersection next to the

Stockman farm. Stockman hastened to explain that, despite appearances, these

were not his family's private tennis courts. They belonged to the township.

Royalton Township (of which Al Stockman was treasurer) had received, like all

other local units of government, its portion of the federal revenue-sharing

funds, and this was how the trustees had decided to spend part of the money

from Washington. "It's all right, I suppose," Stockman said amiably, "but these

people would never have taxed themselves to build that. Not these tight-fisted

taxpayers! As long as someone is giving them the money, sure, they are willing

to spend it. But they would never have used their own money."<p>



<p>



Stockman's contempt was directed not at the local citizens who had spent the

money but at the people in Washington who had sent it. And soon he would be in

a position to do something about them. This winter weekend was a final brief

holiday with his parents; in a few weeks he would become director of the Office

of Management and Budget in the new administration in Washington. Technically,

Stockman was still the U. S. congressman from Michigan's Fourth District, but

his mind and exceptional energy were already concentrated on running OMB, a

small but awesomely complicated power center in the federal government, through

which a President attempts to monitor all of the other federal bureaucracies.<p>



<p>



Stockman carried with him a big black binder enclosing a "Current Services

Budget," which listed every federal program and its current cost projections.

He hoped to memorize the names of 500 to 1,000 program titles and major

accounts by the time he was sworn in--an objective that seemed reasonable to

him, since he already knew many of the budget details. During four years in

Congress, Stockman had made himself a leading conservative gadfly, attacking

Democratic budgets and proposing leaner alternatives. Now the President-elect

was inviting him to do the same thing from within. Stockman had lobbied for the

OMB job and was probably better prepared for it, despite his youthfulness, than

most of his predecessors.<p>



<p>



He was thirty-four years old and looked younger. His shaggy hair was streaked

with gray, and yet he seemed like a gawky collegian, with unstylish glasses and

a prominent Adam's apple. In the corridors of the Capitol, where all ambitious

staff aides scurried about in serious blue suits, Representative Stockman wore

the same uniform, and was frequently mistaken for one of them.<p>



<p>



Inside the farmhouse, the family greetings were casual and restrained. His

parents and his brothers and in-laws did not seem overly impressed by the

prospect that the eldest son would soon occupy one of the most powerful

positions of government. Opening presents in the cluttered living room,

watching the holiday football games on television, the Stockmans seemed a

friendly, restrained, classic Protestant farm family of the Middle West,

conservative and striving. As sometimes happens in those families, however, the

energy and ambition seemed to have been concentrated disproportionately in one

child, David, perhaps at the expense of the others. His mother, Carol, a

big-boned woman with metallic blond hair, was the family organizer, an active

committee member in local Republican politics, and the one who made David work

for A's in school. In political debate, David Stockman was capable of dazzling

opponents with words; his brothers seemed shy and taciturn in his presence. One

brother worked as a county corrections officer in Michigan. Another, after

looking on Capitol Hill, found a job in an employment agency. A third, who had

that distant look of a sixties child grown older, did day labor, odd jobs. His

sister was trained as an educator and worked as a consultant to

manpower-training programs in Missouri that were financed by the federal

government. "She believes in what she's doing and I don't quarrel with it,"

Stockman said. "Basically, there are gobs of this money out there. CETA grants

have to do evaluation and career planning and so forth. What does it amount to?

Somebody rents a room in a Marriott Hotel somewhere and my sister comes in and

talks to them. I think Marriott may get more out of it than anyone else. That's

part of what we're trying to get at, and it's layered all over the

government."<p>



<p>



While David Stockman would speak passionately against the government in

Washington and its self-aggrandizing habits, there was this small irony about

his siblings and himself: most of them worked for government in one way or

another--protected from the dynamic risk-taking of the private economy.

Stockman himself had never had any employer other than the federal government,

but the adventure in his career lay in challenging it. Or, more precisely, in

challenging the "permanent government" that modern liberalism had spawned.<p>



<p>



By that phrase, Stockman and other conservatives meant not only the layers and

layers of federal bureaucrats and liberal politicians who sustained open-ended

growth of the central government but also the less visible infrastructure of

private interests that fed off of it and prospered--the law firms and lobbyists

and trade associations in rows of shining office buildings along K Street in

Washington; the consulting firms and contractors; the  constituencies of

special interests, from schoolteachers to construction workers to failing

businesses and multinational giants, all of whom came to Washington for money

and for legal protection against the perils of free competition.<p>



<p>



While ideology would guide Stockman in his new job, he would be confronted with

a large and tangible political problem: how to resolve the three-sided dilemma

created by Ronald Reagan's contradictory campaign promises. In private,

Stockman agreed that his former congressional mentor, John Anderson, running as

an independent candidate for President in 1980, had asked the right question:

How is it possible to raise defense spending, cut income taxes, and balace the

budget, all at the same time? Anderson had taunted Reagan with that question,

again and again, and most conventional political thinkers, from orthodox

Republican to Keynesian liberal, agreed with Anderson that it could not be

done.<p>



<p>



But Stockman was confident, even cocky, that he and some of his fellow

conservatives had the answer. It was a theory of economics--the supply-side

theory--that promised an end to the twin aggravations of the 1970s: high

inflation and stagnant growth in America's productivity. "We've got to figure

out a way to make John Anderson's question fit into a plausible policy path

over the next three years," Stockman said. "Actually, it isn't all that hard to

do."<p>



<p>



The supply-side approach, which Stockman had only lately embraced, assumed

first of all, that dramatic action by the new President, especially the

commitment to a three-year reduction of the income tax, coupled with tight

monetary control, would signal investors that a new era was dawning, that the

growth of government would be displaced by the robust growth of the private

sector. If economic behavior in a climate of high inflation is primarily based

on expectations about the future value of money, then swift and dramatic action

by the President could reverse the gloomy assumptions in the disordered

financial markets. As inflation abated, interest rates dropped, and productive

employment grew, those marketplace developments would, in turn, help Stockman

balance the federal budget.<p>



<p>



"The whole thing is premised on faith," Stockman explained. "On a belief about

how the world works." As he prepared the script in his mind, his natural

optimism led to bullish forecasts, which were even more robust than the Reagan

Administration's public promises. "The inflation premium melts away like the

morning mist," Stockman predicted. "It could be cut in half in a very short

period of time if the policy is credible. That sets off adjustments and changes

in perception that cascade through the economy. You have a bull market in '81,

after April, of historic proportions."<p>



<p>



How The World Works. It was a favorite phrase of Stockman's, frequently invoked

in conversation to indicate a coherent view of things, an ideology that was

whole and consistent. Stockman took ideology seriously, and this distinguished

him from other bright, ambitious politicians who were content to deal with

public questions one at a time, without imposing a consistent philosophical

framework upon them.<p>



<p>



In 1964, when he went off to Michigan State, having played quarterback in high

school and participated in Future Farmers of America, Stockman assumed that he

would be a farmer, like his father. His political views were orthodox Republic,

derived from his mother, and from his reading of The Conscience of a

Conservative, by Senator Barry Goldwater. "In my first three months, I went

through an absolute clash of cultures," Stockman recalls. "My first professor

was an atheist and socialist from Brooklyn, and within three months I think he

destroyed everything I believed in, from God to the flag." When the Vietnam War

became the focus of campus radicalism, Stockman became a leader, and read

Herbert Marcuse, C. Wright Mills, and Paul Goodman's critiques of American

society. "I became a radical, not in the hard-core sense but in the more casual

sense that nearly everybody was on campus in those days. Naturally, as a good

Methodist, I looked for the Methodist youth center, which became the anti-war

center, because that was the socially conscious thing to to. I was still enough

of a farm boy to believe that revolution was God's work."<p>



<p>



After graduation, he enrolled at Harvard Divinity School, thinking he might

become a great moral philosopher in the tradition of Christian social

activists. (He was perhaps also thinking like so many other students of the

time, that divinity school would extend his deferment from the draft.) At

Michigan State, he had dropped the study of agriculture and moved into the

humanities. At Harvard, he dropped theology and moved into the social sciences

(though he never received training as an economist). "I guess I always had a

strong intellectual bent, so I needed a strong theory of how the world

worked."<p>



<p>



When he found the divinity courses uninspiring, he began taking political

science and history--studying under neo-conservatives such as James Q. Wilson,

Nathan Glazer, and Daniel Patrick Moynihan--and discovered, he said, "that it

was possible to have a sophisticated view of the world without being a

Marxist." In a Harvard seminar, he made a connection with John Anderson, who

was looking for a bright young idea man to help prepare issues for the House

Republican Conference, which Anderson chaired. The Illinois congressman was

moving gradually leftward in his views; Stockman was continuing his

intellectual search in the opposite direction.<p>



<p>



Stockman's congressional district was composed of small towns and countryside,

a world that worked quite well without Washington, in his view. After dinner at

the farm that day, we took a driving tour of the area. The government's good

works were everywhere--a new sewer system in Bridgman, a modern municipal

building in Stevensville--but Stockman belittled them as "pork barrel."

Stockman's district was overwhelmingly rural and Republican, but he saw it as a

fair representation of America.<p>



<p>



Indeed, as a congressman, Stockman himself had worked hard to make certain that

his Fourth District constituents exploited the system. His office maintained a

computerized alert system for grants and loans from the myriad agencies, to

make certain that no opportunities were missed. "I went around and cut all the

ribbons and they never knew I voted against the damn programs," he said.<p>



<p>



Still, more than most other politicians, Stockman was known for standing by his

ideological principles, not undermining them. When Congress voted its bail-out

financing to rescue Chrysler from bankruptcy, Stockman was the only Michigan

representative to oppose it, even though a large town in his district, St.

Joseph, would be hurt. The town's largest employer, St. Joe's Auto Specialties,

was a Chrysler supplier, and its factory was laying off workers. Its owners

were among Stockman's earliest and largest contributors when he first ran for

Congress, in 1976. Still, he opposed the bail-out. "Some of them were a little

miffed at me and others applauded. I only had one or two argue strenuously with

me. They're probably more derogatory behind my back."<p>



<p>



Stockman felt protected from local pressures, in a way that most members of

Congress do not--partly by the Republicanism of the district but also by the

consistency of his ideology. Since he had a clear, strong view of what

government ought and ought not to do, he found it easier to resist claims that

seemed illegitimate, no matter who their sponsors might be. "Too many

politicians are intimidated by the squeaking wheel, in my judgment. Regardless

of their ideological viewpoint, they're able to incorporate the squealing wheel

into their general position. If the proposal is pro-business, they call it

conservative. If they're from Nebraska, it's pro-farmer. It's whatever serves

the constituencies."<p>



<p>



This was the core of his complaint against the modern liberalism launched by

Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal. He did not quarrel with the need for basic

social-welfare programs, such as unemployment insurance or Social Security; he

agreed that the govermnent must regulate private enterprise to protect general

health and safety. But liberal politics in its later stages had lost the

ability to judge claims, and so yielded to all of them, Stockman thought,

creating what he describes as "constituency-based choice-making," which could

no longer address larger national interests, including fiscal control. As

Stockman saw it, this process did not ameliorate social inequities; it created

new ones by yielding to powerful interest groups at the expense of everyone

else. 'What happens is the politicization of the society. All decisions flow to

the center. Once we decide to allocate credit to certain activities--and we're

doing that on a massive scale--or to allocate the capital for energy

development, the levels of competency and morality fall. Then the outcomes in

society begin to look more and more like the work of brute muscle. The other

thing it does is destroy ideas. Once things are allocated by political muscle,

by regional claims, there are no longer idea-based agendas."<p>



<p>



Across the river from St. Joe's, Stockman drove through the deserted Main

Street of Benton Harbor, his favorite example of failed liberalism. Once it had

been a prosperous commercial center, but now most of its stores and buildings

were boarded up and vacant except for an occasional storefront church or

social-service agency. As highways and suburban shopping centers pulled away

commerce, the downtown collapsed, whites moved, and the city became

predominantly black and overwhelmingly poor. The federal government's various

efforts to revive Benton Harbor had quite visibly failed.<p>



<p>



"When you have powerful underlying demographic and economic forces at work,

federal intervention efforts designed to reverse the tide turn out to have

rather anemic effect," Stockman said, surveying the dilapidated storefronts. "I

wouldn't be surprised if $100 million had been spent here in the last twenty

years. Urban renewal, CETA, model cities, they've had everything. And the

results? No impact whatever."<p>



<p>



The drastic failure seemed to please him, for it confirmed his view of how the

world works. As budget director, he intended to proceed against many of the

programs that fed money to the poor blacks of Benton Harbor, morally confident

because he knew from personal obervation that the federal revitalization money

did not deliver what such programs promised. But he would also go after the

Economic Development Administration (EDA) grants for the comfortable towns and

the Farmers Home Administration loans for communities that could pay for their

own sewers and the subsidized credit for farmers and business--the federal

guarantees for economic interests that ought to take their own risks. He was

confident of his theory, because, in terms of the Michigan countryside where he

grew up, he saw it as equitable and fundamentally moral.<p>



<p>



"We are interested in curtailing weak claims rather than weak clients," he

promised. "The fear of the liberal remnant is that we will only attack weak

clients. We have to show that we are willing to attack powerful clients with

weak claims. I think that's critical to our success--both political and

economic success."<p>



<p>

<br><br><p>





<b>II. A Radical in Power</b><p>



<p>



Three weeks before the Inauguration, Stockman and his transition team of a

dozen or so people were already established at the OMB office in the Old

Executive Office Building. When his appointment as budget director first seemed

likely, he had agreed to meet with me from time to time and relate, off the

record, his private account of the great political struggle ahead. The

particulars of these conversations were not to be reported until later, after

the season's battles were over, but a cynic familiar with how Washington works

would understand that the arrangement had obvious symbiotic value. As an

assistant managing editor at The Washington Post, I benefited from an informed

view of policy discussions of the new administration; Stockman, a student of

history, was contributing to history's record and perhaps influencing its

conclusions. For him, our meetings were another channel--among many he used--to

the press. The older generation of orthodox Republicans distrusted the press;

Stockman was one of the younger "new" conservatives who cultivated contacts

with columnists and reporters, who saw the news media as another useful tool in

political combat. "We believe our ideas have intellectual respectability, and

we think the press will recognize that," he said. "The traditional Republicans

probably sensed, even if they didn't know it, that their ideas lacked

intellectual respectability."<p>



<p>



In any case, for the eight months that followed, Stockman kept the agreement,

and our regular conversations, over breakfast at the Hay-Adams, provided the

basis of the account that follows.<p>



<p>



In early January, Stockman and his staff were assembling dozens of position

papers on program reductions and studying the internal forecasts for the

federal budget and the national economy. The initial figures were

frightening--"absolutely shocking," he confided--yet he seemed oddly

exhilarated by the bad news, and was bubbling with new plans for coping with

these horrendous numbers. An OMB computer, programmed as a model of the

nation's economic behavior, was instructed to estimate the impact of Reagan's

program on the federal budget. It predicted that if the new President went

ahead with his promised three-year tax reduction and his increase in defense

spending, the Reagan Administration would be faced with a series of federal

deficits without precedent in peacetime--ranging from $82 billion in 1982 to

$116 billion in 1984. Even Stockman blinked. If those were the numbers included

in President Reagan's first budget message, the following month, the financial

markets that Stockman sought to reassure would instead be panicked. Interest

rates, already high, would go higher; the expectation of long-term inflation

would be confirmed.<p>



<p>



Stockman saw opportunity in these shocking projections. "All the conventional

estimates just wind up as mud," he said. "As absurdities. What they basically

say, to boil it down, is that the world doesn't work."<p>



<p>



Stockman set about doing two things. First, he changed the OMB computer.

Assisted by like-minded supply-side economists, the new team discarded orthodox

premises of how the economy would behave. Instead of a continuing double-digit

inflation, the new computer model assumed a swift decline in prices and

interest rates. Instead of the continuing pattern of slow economic growth, the

new model was based on a dramatic surge in the nation's productivity. New

investment, new jobs, and growing profits--and Stockman's historic bull market.

"It's based on valid economic analysis," he said, "but it's the inverse of the

last four years. When we go public, this is going to set off a wide-open debate

on how the economy works, a great battle over the conventional theories of

economic performance."<p>



<p>



The original apostles of supply-side, particularly Representative Jack Kemp, of

New York, and the economist Arthur B. Laffer, dismissed budget-cutting as

inconsequential to the economic problems, but Stockman was trying to fuse new

theory and old. "Laffer sold us a bill of goods," he said, then corrected his

words: "Laffer wasn't wrong--he didn't go far enough."<p>



<p>



<p>



The great debate never quite took hold in the dimensions that Stockman had

anticipated, but the Reagan Administration's economic projections did become

the source of continuing controversy. In defense of their counter-theories,

Stockman and his associates would argue, correctly, that conventional

forecasts, particularly by the Council of Economic Advisers in the preceding

administration, had been consistently wrong in the past. His critics would

contend that the supply-side premises were based upon wishful thinking, not

sound economic analysis.<p>



<p>



<p>



But, second, Stockman used the appalling deficit projections as a valuable

talking point in the policy discussions that were under way with the President

and his principal advisers. Nobody in that group was the least bit hesitant

about cutting federal programs, but Reagan had campaigned on the vague and

painless theme that eliminating "waste, fraud, and mismanagement" would be

sufficient to balance the accounts. Now, as Stockman put it, "the idea is to

try to get beyond the waste, fraud, and mismanagement modality and begin to

confront the real dimensions of budget reduction." On the first Wednesday in

January, Stockman had two hours on the President-elect's schedule to describe

the "dire shape" of the federal budget; for starters, the new administration

would have to go for a budget reduction in the neighborhood of $40 billion. "Do

you have any idea what $40 billion means?" he said. "It means I've got to cut

the highway program. It means I've got to cut milk-price supports. And Social

Security student benefits. And education and student loans. And manpower

training and housing. It means I've got to shut down the synfuels program and a

lot of other programs. The idea is to show the magnitude of the budget deficit

and some suggestion of the political problems."<p>



<p>



<p>



How much pain was the new President willing to impose? How many sacred cows

would he challenge at once? Stockman was still feeling out the commitment at

the White House, aware that Reagan's philosophical commitment to shrinking the

federal government would be weighed against political risks.<p>



<p>



<p>



 Stockman was impressed by the ease with which the President-elect accepted the

broad objective: find $4O billion in cuts in a federal budget running well

beyond $700 billion. But, despite the multitude of expenditures, the

proliferation of programs and grants, Stockman knew the exercise was not as

easy as it might sound.<p>



<p>



<p>



Consider the budget in simple terms, as a federal dollar representing the

entire $700 billion. The most important function of the federal government is

mailing checks to citizens--Social Security checks to the elderly, pension

checks to retired soldiers and civil servants, reimbursement checks for

hospitals and doctors who provide medical care for the aged and the poor,

welfare checks for the dependent, veterans checks to pensioners. Such

disbursements consume forty-eight cents of the dollar.<p>



<p>



<p>



Another twenty-five cents goes to the Pentagon, for national defense. Stockman

knew that this share would be rising in the next four years, not shrinking,

perhaps becoming as high as thirty cents. Another ten cents was consumed by

interest payments on the national debt, which was fast approaching a trillion

dollars.<p>



<p>



<p>



That left seventeen cents for everything else that Washington does. The FBI and

the national parks, the county agents and the Foreign Service and the Weather

Bureau--all the traditional operations of government--consumed only nine cents

of the dollar. The remaining eight cents provided all of the grants to state

and local governments, for aiding handicapped children or building highways or

installing tennis courts next to Al Stockman's farm. One might denounce

particular programs as wasteful, as unnecessary and ineffective, even crazy,

but David Stockman knew that he could not escape these basic dimensions of

federal spending.<p>



<p>



<p>



As he and his staff went looking for the $40 billion, they found that most of

it would have to be taken from the seventeen cents that covered government

operations and grants-in-aid. Defense was already off-limits. Next Ronald

Reagan laid down another condition for the budget-cutting: the main benefit

programs of Social Security, Medicare, veterans' checks, railroad retirement

pensions, welfare for the disabled--the so-called "social safety net" that

Reagan had promised not to touch--were to be exempt from the budget cuts. In

effect, he was declaring that Stockman could not tamper with three fourths of

the forty-eight cents devoted to transfer payments.<p>



<p>



<p>



No President had balanced the budget in the past twelve years. Still, Stockman

thought it could be done, by 1984, if the Reagan Administration adhered to the

principle of equity, cutting weak claims, not merely weak clients, and if it

shocked the system sufficiently to create a new political climate. He still

believed that it was not a question of numbers. "It boils down to a political

question, not of budget policy or economic policy, but whether we can change

the habits of the political system."<p>



<p>



<p>



The struggle began in private, with Ronald Reagan's Cabinet. By inaugural week,

Stockman's staff had assembled fifty or sixty policy papers outlining major

cuts and alterations, and, aiming at the target of $40 billion, Stockman was

anxious to win fast approval for them, before the new Cabinet officers were

fully familiar with their departments and prepared to defend their

bureaucracies. During that first week, the new Cabinet members had to sit

through David Stockman's recital--one proposal after another outlining drastic

reductions in their programs. Brief discussion was followed by presidential

approval. "I have a little nervousness about the heavy-handedness with which I

am being forced to act," Stockman conceded. "It's not that I wouldn't want to

give the decision papers to the Cabinet members ahead of time so they could

look at them, it's just that we're getting them done at eight o'clock in the

morning and rushing them to the Cabinet room. . . It doesn't work when you have

to brace these Cabinet officers in front of the President with severe

reductions in their agencies, because then they're in the position of having to

argue against the group line. And the group line is cut, cut, cut. So that's a

very awkward position for them, and you make them resentful very fast."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman proposed to White House counselor Edwin Meese an alternative

approach--a budget working group, in which each Cabinet secretary could review

the proposed cuts and argue against them. As the group evolved, however, with

Meese, chief of staff James Baker, Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, and policy

director Martin Anderson, among others, it was stacked in Stockman's favor.

"Each meeting will involve only the relevant Cabinet member and his aides with

four or five strong keepers of the central agenda," Stockman explained at one

point. "So on Monday, when we go into the decision on synfuels programs, it

will be [Energy Secretary James B.] Edwards defending them against six guys

saying that, by God, we've got to cut these back or we're not going to have a

savings program that will add up."<p>



<p>



<p>



In general, the system worked. Stockman's agency did in a few weeks what

normally consumes months; the process was made easier because the normal

opposition forces had no time to marshal either their arguments or their

constituents and because the President was fully in tune with Stockman. After

the budget working group reached a decision, it would be taken to Reagan in the

form of a memorandum, on which he could register his approval by checking a

little box. "Once he checks it," Stockman said, "I put that in my safe and I go

ahead and I don't let it come back up again."<p>



<p>



<p>



The check marks were given to changes in twelve major budget entitlements and

scores of smaller ones. Eliminate Social Security minimum benefits. Cap the

runaway costs of Medicaid. Tighten eligibility for food stamps. Merge the trade

adjustment assistance for unemployed industrial workers with standard

unemployment compensation and shrink it. Cut education aid by a quarter. Cut

grants for the arts and humanities in half. "Zero out" CETA and the Community

Services Administration and National Consumer Cooperative Bank. And so forth.

"Zero out" became a favorite phrase of Stockman's; it meant closing down a

program "cold turkey," in one budget year. Stockman believed that any

compromise on a program that ought to be eliminated--funding that would phase

it out over several years--was merely a political ruse to keep it alive, so it

might still be in existence a few years hence, when a new political climate

could allow its restoration to full funding.<p>



<p>



<p>



"I just wish that there were more hours in the day or that we didn't have to do

this so fast. I have these stacks of briefing books and I've got to make

decisions about specific options. . . I don't have time, trying to put this

whole package together in three weeks, so you just start making snap

judgments."<p>



<p>



<p>



In the private deliberations, Stockman began to encounter more resistance from

Cabinet members. He was proposing to cut $752 million from the Export-Import

Bank, which provides subsidized financing for international trade--a cut of

crucial symbolic importance, because of Stockman's desire for equity. Two

thirds of the Ex-Im's direct loans benefit some of America's major

manufacturers--Boeing, Lockheed, General Electric, Westinghouse, McDonnell

Douglas, Western Electric, Combustion Engineering--and, not surprisingly, the

program had a strong Republican constituency on Capitol Hill. Stockman thought

the trade subsidies offended the free-market principles that all conservatives

espouse--in particular, President Reagan's objective of withdrawing Washington

from business decision-making. Supporters of the subsidies made a practical

argument: the U.S. companies, big as they were, needed the financial subsidies

to stay even against government-subsidized competition from Europe and Japan.<p>



<p>



<p>



The counter-offensive against the cut was led by Commerce Secretary Malcolm

Baldrige and U.S. Trade Representative William Brock, who argued eloquently

before the budget working group for a partial restoration of Ex-Im funds. By

Stockman's account, the two "fought, argued, pounded the table," and the

meeting seemed headed for deadlock. "I sort of innocently asked, well, isn't

there a terrible political spin on this? It's my impression that most of the

money goes to a handful of big corporations, and if we are ever caught not

cutting this while we're biting deeply into the social programs, we're going to

have big problems." Stockman asked if anyone at the table had any relevant

data. Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Tim McNamar thereupon produced a list of

Ex-Im's major beneficiaries (a list that Stockman had given him before the

meeting). "So then I went into this demagogic tirade about how in the world can

I cut food stamps and social services and CETA jobs and EDA jobs and you're

going to tell me you can't give up one penny for Boeing?"<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman won that argument, for the moment. But, as with all the other issues

in the budget debate, the argument was only beginning. "I've got to take

something out of Boeing's hide to make this look right. . . You can measure me

on this, because I'll probably lose but I'll give it a helluva fight."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman also began what was to become a continuing struggle, occasionally

nasty, with the new secretary of energy. Edwards, a dentist from South

Carolina, was ostensibly appointed to dismantle the Department of Energy, as

Reagan had promised, but when Stockman proposed cutting the department in half,

virtually eliminating the vast synthetic-fuels program launched by the Carter

Administration, Edwards argued in defense. In the midst of the battle, Stockman

said contemptuously, "I went over to DOE the other day and here's a whole

roomful of the same old bureaucrats I've been kicking around for the last five

years--advising Edwards on why we couldn't do certain things on oil decontrol

that I wanted to do." The relationship did not improve as the two men got to

know each other better.<p>



<p>



<p>



But Stockman felt only sympathy for Secretary of Agriculture John Block, an

Illinois farmer. The budget cuts were hitting some of Agriculture's principal

subsidy programs. A billion dollars would be cut from dairy-price supports. The

Farmers Home Administration loans and grants were to be sharply curtailed. The

low-interest financing for rural electric cooperatives and the Tennessee Valley

Authority would be modified. In the early weeks of the new administration, the

peanut growers and their congressional lobby had campaigned, as they did every

year, to have the new secretary of agriculture raise the price-support level

for peanuts. Stockman told Block he would have to refuse--for Stockman wanted

to abolish the program. "I sympathize with Jack Block," Stockman said. "I

forced him into a position that makes his life miserable over there. He's on

the central team, he's not a departmental player, but the parochial politics of

that department are fierce." Victories over farm lobbies could be won, Stockman

believed, if he kept the issues separate--attacking each commodity program in

turn, and undermining urban support by cutting the food and nutrition programs.

"My strategy is to come in with a farm bill that's unacceptable to the farm

guys so that the whole thing begins to splinter." An early test vote on

milk-price supports seemed to confirm the strategy--the dairy farmers lobbied

and lost.<p>



<p>



<p>



The only cabinet officer Stockman did not challenge was, of course, the

secretary of defense. In the frantic preparation of the Reagan budget message,

delivered in broad outline to Congress on February 18, the OMB review officers

did not give even their usual scrutiny to the new budget projections from

Defense. Reagan had promised to increase military spending by 7 percent a year,

adjusted for inflation, and this pledge translated into the biggest peacetime

arms build-up in the history of the republic--$1.6 trillion over the next five

years, which would more than double the Pentagon's annual budget while domestic

spending was shrinking. Stockman acknowledged that OMB had taken only a cursory

glance at the new defense budget, but he was confident that later on, when

things settled down a bit, he could go back and analyze it more carefully.<p>



<p>



<p>



In late February, months before the defense budget became a subject of Cabinet

debate, Stockman privately predicted that Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger,

himself a budget director during the Nixon years, would be an ally when he got

around to cutting back military spending. "As soon as we get past this first

phase in the process, I'm really going to go after the Pentagon. The whole

question is blatant inefficiency, poor deployment of manpower, contracting

idiocy, and, hell, I think that Cap's going to be a pretty good mark over

there. He's not a tool of the military-industrial complex. I mean, he hasn't

been steeped in its excuses and rationalizations and ideology for twenty years,

and I think that he'll back off on a lot of this stuff, but you just can't

challenge him head-on without your facts in line. And we're going to get our

case in line and just force it through the presses."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman shared the general view of the Reagan Administration that the United

States needed a major build-up of its armed forces. But he also recognized that

the Pentagon, as sole customer for weapons systems, subsidized the arms

manufacturers in many direct ways and violated many free-market principles.

"The defense budgets in the out-years won't be nearly as high as we are showing

now, in my judgment. Hell, I think there's a kind of swamp of $10 to $20 to $30

billion worth of waste that can be ferreted out if you really push hard. "<p>



<p>



<p>



Long before President Reagan's speech to Congress, most of the painful details

of the $41.4 billion in proposed reductions were already known to Capitol Hill

and the public. In early February, preparing the political ground, Stockman

started delivering his "black book" to Republican leaders and committee

chairmen. He knew that once the information was circulating on the Hill, it

would soon be available to the news media, and he was not at all upset by the

daily storm of headlines revealing the dimensions of what lay ahead. The news

conveyed, in its drama and quantity of detail, the appropriate political

message: President Reagan would not be proposing business as usual. The

President had in mind what Stockman saw as "fiscal revolution."<p>



<p>



<p>



But it was not generally understood that the new budget director had already

lost a major component of his revolution--another set of proposals, which he

called "Chapter II," that was not sent to Capitol Hill because the President

had vetoed its most controversial elements.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman had thought "Chapter II" would help him on two fronts: it would

provide substantially increased revenues and thus help reduce the huge deficits

of the next three years; but it would also mollify liberal critics complaining

about the cuts in social welfare, because it was aimed primarily at tax

expenditures (popularly known as "loopholes") benefiting oil and other business

interests. "We have a gap which we couldn't fill even with all these budget

cuts, too big a deficit," Stockman explained. "Chapter II comes out totally on

the opposite of the equity question. That was part of my strategy to force

acquiescence at the last minute into a lot of things you'd never see a

Republican administration propose. I had a meeting this morning at the White

House. The President wasn't involved, but all the other key senior people were.

We brought a program of additional tax savings that don't touch any social

programs. But they touch tax expenditures." Stockman hesitated to discuss

details, for the package was politically sensitive, but it included elimination

of the oil-depletion allowance; an attack on tax-exempt industrial-development

bonds; user fees for owners of private airplanes and barges; a potential

ceiling on home-mortgage deductions (which Stockman called a "mansion cap,"

since it would affect only the wealthy); some defense reductions; and other

items, ten in all. Total additional savings: somewhere in the neighborhood of

$20 billion. Stockman was proud of "Chapter II" and also very nervous about it,

because, while liberal Democrats might applaud the closing of "loopholes" that

they had attacked for years, powerful lobbies--in Congress and business--would

mobilize against it.<p>



<p>



<p>



Did President Reagan approve? "If there's a consensus on it, he's not going to

buck it, probably."<p>



<p>



<p>



Two weeks later, Stockman cheerfully explained that the President had rejected

his "tax-expenditures" savings. The "Chapter II" issues had seemed crucial to

Stockman when he was preparing them, but he dismissed them as inconsequential

now that he had lost. "Those were more like ornaments I was thinking of on the

tax side," he insisted "I call them equity ornaments. They're not really too

good. They're not essential to the economics of the thing."<p>



<p>



<p>



The President was willing to propose user fees for aircraft, private boats, and

barges, but turned down the proposal to eliminate the oil-depletion allowance.

"The President has a very clear philosophy," Stockman explained. "A lot of

people criticize him for being short on the details, but he knows when

something's wrong. He just jumped all over my tax proposals."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman dropped other proposals. Nevertheless, he was buoyant. The reactions

from Capitol Hill were clamorous, as expected, but the budget director was more

impressed by the silences, the stutter and hesitation of the myriad interest

groups. Stockman was becoming a favorite caricature for newspaper

cartoonists--the grim reaper of the Reagan Administration, the Republican

Robespierre--but in his many sessions on the Hill he sensed confusion and

caution on the other side.<p>



<p>



<p>



"There are more and more guys coming around to our side," he reported. "What's

happening is that the plan is so sweeping and it covers all the bases

sufficiently, so that it's like a magnifying glass that reveals everybody's

pores. . . In the past, people could easily get votes for their projects or

their interests by saying, well, if they would cut food stamps and CETA jobs

and two or three other things, then maybe we would go along with it, but they

are just picking on my program. But, now, everybody perceives that everybody's

sacred cows are being cut. If that's what it takes, so be it. The parochial

player will not be the norm, I think. For a while."<p>



<p>



<p><br><br><p>





<b>III. The Magic Asterisk</b><p>



<p>



<p>



On Capitol Hill, ideological consistency is not a highly ranked virtue but its

absence is useful grounds for scolding the opposition. David Stockman endured

considerable needling when his budget appeared, revealing that many programs

that he had opposed as a congressman had survived. The most glaring was the

fast-breeder nuclear reactor at Clinch River, Tennessee. Why hadn't Stockman

cut the nuclear subsidy that he had so long criticized? The answer was Senator

Howard Baker, of Tennessee, majority leader. "I didn't have to get rolled,"

Stockman said, "I just got out of the way. It just wasn't worth fighting. This

package will go nowhere without Baker, and Clinch River is just life or death

to Baker. A very poor reason, I know."<p>



<p>



<p>



Consistency, he knew, was an important asset in the new environment. The

package of budget cuts would be swiftly picked apart if members of Congress

perceived that they could save their pet programs, one by one, from the general

reductions. "All those guys are looking for ways out," he said. "If they can

detect an alleged pattern of preferential treatment for somebody else or

discriminatory treatment between rural and urban interests or between farm

interests and industrial interests, they can concoct a case for theirs."<p>



<p>



<p>



Even by Washington standards, where overachieving young people with excessive

adrenalin are commonplace, Stockman was busy. Back and forth, back and forth he

went, from his vast office at the Old Executive Office Building, with its

classic high ceilings and its fireplace, to the cloakrooms and hideaway offices

and hearing chambers of the Capitol, to the West Wing of the White House.

Usually, he carried an impossible stack of books and papers under his arm, like

a harried high school student who has not been given a locker. He promised

friends he would relax--take a day off, or at least sleep later than 5 A.M.,

when he usually arose to read policy papers before breakfast. But he did not

relax easily. What was social life compared with the thrill of reshaping the

federal establishment?<p>



<p>



<p>



In the early skirmishing on Capitol Hill, Stockman actually proposed a tight

control system: Senator Baker and the House Republican leader, Robert Michel,

of Illinois, would be empowered to clear all budget trades on particular

programs--and no one else, not even the highest White House advisers, could

negotiate any deals. "If you have multiple channels for deals to be cut and

retreats to be made," Stockman explained, "then it will be possible for

everybody to start side-dooring me, going in to see Meese, who doesn't

understand the policy background, and making the case, or [James] Baker making

a deal with a subcommittee chairman." Neither the White House nor the

congressional leadership liked his idea, and it was soon buried.<p>



<p>



<p>



By March, however, Stockman could see the status quo yielding to the shock of

the Reagan agenda. In dozens of meetings and hearings, public and private,

Stockman perceived that it was now inappropriate for a senator or a congressman

to plead for his special interests, at least in front of other members with

other interests. At one caucus, a Tennessee Republican began to lecture him on

the reduced financing for TVA; other Republicans scolded him. Stockman cut

public-works funding for the Red River project in Louisiana, which he knew

would arouse Russell Long, former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.

Long appealed personally at the White House, and Reagan stood firm.<p>



<p>



<p>



One by one, small signals such as these began to change Stockman's estimate of

the political struggle. He began to believe that the Reagan budget package,

despite its scale, perhaps because of its scale, could survive in Congress.

With skillful tactics by political managers, with appropriate public drama

provided by the President, the relentless growth rate of the federal budget, a

permanent reality of Washington for twenty years, could actually be

contained.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman's analysis was borne out a few weeks later, in early April, when the

Senate adopted its first budget-cutting measures, 88-10, a package close enough

to the administration's proposals to convince Stockman of the vulnerability of

"constituency-based" politics. "That could well be a turning point in this

whole process," Stockman said afterward.<p>



<p>



<p>



Still, Stockman was even more impressed by the performance of the new

Republican majority in the Senate. After a week of voting down amendments to

restore funds for various programs--"voting against every motherhood title," as

Stockman put it--moderate Republicans from the Northeast and Midwest needed

some sort of political solace. Led by Senator John Chaffee, of Rhode Island,

the moderates proposed an amendment spreading about $1 billion over an array of

social programs, from education to home-heating assistance for the poor.

Stockman had no objection. The amendment wouldn't cost much overall, and it

would "take care of those people who have been good soldiers." Senator Pete

Domenici, of New Mexico, the Senate budget chairman, decided, however, that the

accommodation wasn't necessary, and he was right. The Chaffee amendment lost.<p>



<p>



<p>



"It was the kind of amendment that should have passed," Stockman reflected

afterward. "The fact that it didn't win tells me that the political logic has

changed."<p>



<p>



<p>



Not entirely, however. While the Senate majority was rejecting additional money

for the coalition of social programs, it was also tinkering with an important

item in Stockman's balance of equitable cuts--the Export-Import Bank. The great

multinational industrial firms that received the trade subsidies from Ex-Im

were already at work, arguing that U.S. sales abroad and jobs at home would

suffer without the Ex-Im loans and guarantees. The Republicans, led by Senator

Nancy Kassebaum, of Kansas, where Boeing is a major employer, voted to restore

$250 million to the Ex-Im budget. Later, the House raised the figure even

higher, with little resistance from the White House.<p>



<p>



<p>



"We weren't really closely in control," Stockman explained. "The mark-up went

so fast, and those amendments came out of the woodwork, and we weren't prepared

to deal with it." Stockman seemed nonchalant about his defeat. The principle of

cutting the Ex-Im's corporate subsidies, which had seemed so important to him

in January, was now regarded as a minor blemish on the Senate victory. "It did

open a little breach that is troublesome," he conceded.<p>



<p>



<p>



The vulnerability of Stockman's ideology was always that the politics of

winning would overwhelm the philosophical premises. But after the Senate

victory, Stockman devoted his energy to the tactical questions--winning again

in the House of Representatives, which was controlled by the Democrats. "This

is pure politics," he said. "It's a question of a whether the President can

prevail on the floor of the House, because if he can't, then the committee

chairmen know they have license to do anything they want."<p>



<p>



Stockman watched with admiration as his principal intellectual rival, Jim

Jones, the Democratic chairman of the House Budget Committee, attempted to

fashion a budget resolution that would hold the Democratic majority together.

The budget director calculated that Jones had an impossible task, but he could

see that the Oklahoma congressman was going to come closer than he had

expected. The Democrats, by Stockman's analysis, were really three groups: the

old-line liberal faithful, who would follow the party leadership and defend

against any or all budget cuts; a middle group, including Jones and other

younger members, who recognized that federal deficits were out of control and

were willing to confront the problem (Stockman referred to them as "the

progressives"); and, finally, the "boll weevils," the thirty-eight southerners

who were pulled toward Reagan both in conservative philosophy and by the

politics of their home districts, which had voted overwhelmingly for the

President. Jones was drawing up a resolution that would restore some funds to

social programs, to keep the liberals happy; that projected a smaller deficit

than Stockman's, to appear more responsible in fiscal terms; and that did not

touch the defense budget, which would offend the southerners.<p>



<p>



<p>



Artful as it was, the Jones resolution was, according to Stockman, a series of

gimmicks: economic estimates and accounting tricks. "Political numbers," he

called them. But Stockman was not critical of Jones for these budget ploys,

because he cheerfully conceded that the administration's own budget numbers

were constructed on similar shaky premises, mixing cuts from the original 1981

budget left by Jimmy Carter with new baseline projections from the

Congressional Budget Office in a way that, fundamentally, did not add up. The

budget politics of 1981, which produced such clear and dramatic rhetoric from

both sides, was, in fact, based upon a bewildering set of numbers that confused

even those, like Stockman, who produced them.<p>



<p>



<p>



"None of us really understands what's going on with all these numbers,"

Stockman confessed at one point. "You've got so many different budgets out and

so many different baselines and such complexity now in the interactive parts of

the budget between policy action and the economic environment and all the

internal mysteries of the budget, and there are a lot of them. People are

getting from A to B and it's not clear how they are getting there. It's not

clear how we got there and it's not clear how Jones is going to get there."<p>



<p>



<p>



These "internal mysteries" of the budget process were not dwelt upon by either

side, for there was no point in confusing the clear lines of political debate

with a much deeper and unanswerable question: Does anyone truly understand,

much less control, the dynamics of the federal budget intertwined with the

mysteries of the national economy? Stockman pondered this question

occasionally, but since there was no obvious remedy, no intellectual construct

available that would make sense of this anarchical universe, he was compelled

to shrug at the mystery and move ahead. "l'm beginning to believe that history

is a lot shakier than I ever thought it was," he said, in a reflective moment.

"In other words, I think there are more random elements, less determinism and

more discretion, in the course of history than I ever believed before. Because

I can see it."<p>



<p>



<p>



The "random elements" were working in Stockman's behalf in the House of

Representatives. He had a good fix on what Jones would produce as the

Democratic alternative, in part because he had a spy in the Democratic

meetings--Phil Gramm, of Texas, a like-minded conservative and friend who

agreed to co-sponsor the administration's substitute resolution. Did Jones know

that one of his Democratic committee members was really on the other side?

"No," said Stockman. "That's how I know what's in Jones's budget."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was also dealing with the recognized leaders of the "boll weevils." He

thought that the southerners could be won to the President's side with a

minimum of trading, but he was prepared to trade. He agreed with G. V. "Sonny"

Montgomery, chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee and a genuine

leader among the southern Democrats, to acquiesce in the restoration of $350 to

$400 million for staffing at veterans' hospitals. Once Montgomery announced he

was with the President, it would be a respectable position, which other

southerners could embrace, Stockman felt. Still, he was confident that he could

defend the agenda against general trading for votes.<p>



<p>



<p>



In political terms, Stockman's analysis was sound. The Reagan program was

moving toward a series of dramatic victories in Congress. Beyond the brilliant

tactical maneuvering, however, and concealed by the public victories, Stockman

was privately staring at another reality--a gloomy portent that the economic

theory behind the President's program wasn't working. While it was winning in

the political arena, the plan was losing on Wall Street. The financial markets,

which Stockman had thought would be reassured by the new President's bold

actions, and which were supposed to launch a historic "bull market" in April,

failed to respond in accordance with Stockman's script. The markets not only

failed to rally, they went into a new decline. Interest rates started up again;

the bond market slumped. The annual inflation rate, it was true, was declining,

dropping below double digits, but even Stockman acknowledged that this was

owing to "good luck" with grain harvests and world oil supplies, not to

Reaganomics. Investment analysts, however, were looking closely at the Stockman

budget figures, looking beyond the storm of political debate and the

President's winning style, and what they saw were enormous deficits ahead--the

same numbers that had shocked David Stockman when he came into office in

January. Henry Kaufman, of Salomon Brothers, one of the preeminent prophets of

Wall Street, delivered a sobering speech that, in the cautious language of

financiers, said the same thing that John Anderson had said in 1980: cutting

taxes and pumping up the defense budget would produce not balanced budgets but

inflationary deficits.<p>



<p>



<p>



Was Kaufman right? Stockman agreed that he was, and conceded that his own

original conception--that dramatic political action would somehow alter the

marketplace expectations of continuing inflation--had been wrong. "They're

concerned about the out-year budget posture, not about the near-term economic

situation. The Kaufmans don't dispute our diagnosis at all. They dispute our

remedy. They don't think it adds up . . . I take the performance of the bond

market deadly seriously. I think it's the best measure there is. The bond

markets represent worldwide psychology, worldwide perception and evaluation of

what, on balance, relevant people think about what we're doing . . . It means

we're going to have to make changes . . . I wouldn't say we are losing. We're

still not winning. We're not winning."<p>



<p>



<p>



The underlying problem of the deficits first surfaced, to Stockman's

embarrassment, in the Senate Budget Committee in mid-April, when committee

Republicans choked on the three-year projections supplied by the nonpartisan

Congressional Budget Office. Three Republican senators refused to vote for a

long-term budget measure that predicted continuing deficits of $60 billion,

instead of a balanced budget by 1984.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman thought he had taken care of embarrassing questions about future

deficits with a device he referred to as the "magic asterisk." (Senator Howard

Baker had dubbed it that in strategy sessions, Stockman said.) The "magic

asterisk" would blithely denote all of the future deficit problems that were to

be taken care of with additional budget reductions, to be announced by the

President at a later date. Thus, everyone could finesse the hard questions, for

now.<p>



<p>



<p>



But, somehow or other, the Senate Budget Committee staff insisted upon putting

the honest numbers in its resolution--the projected deficits of $60

billion--plus running through 1984. That left the Republican senators staring

directly at the same scary numbers that Stockman and the Wall Street analysts

had already seen. The budget director blamed this brief flare-up on the frantic

nature of his schedule. When he should have been holding hands with the Senate

Budget Committee, he was at the other end of the Capitol, soothing

Representative Delbert Latta, of Ohio, the ranking Republican in budget

matters, who was pouting. Latta thought that since he was a Republican, his

name should go ahead of that of Phil Gramm, a Democrat, on the budget

resolution: that it should be Latta-Gramm instead of Gramm-Latta. After a few

days of reassurances, Stockman persuaded the Republican senators to relax about

the future and two weeks later they passed the resolution--without being given

any concrete answers as to where he would find future cuts of such magnitude.

In effect, the "magic asterisk" sufficed.<p>



<p>



<p>



But the real problem, as Stockman conceded, was still unsolved. Indeed,

pondering the reactions of financial markets, the budget director made an

extraordinary confession in private: the original agenda of budget reductions,

which had seemed so radical in February, was exposed by May as inadequate. The

"magic asterisk" might suffice for the political debate in Congress, but it

would not answer the fundamental question asked by Wall Street: How, in fact,

did Ronald Reagan expect to balance the federal budget? "It's a tentative

judgment on the part of the markets and of spokesmen like Kaufman that is

reversible because they haven't seen all our cards. From the cards they've

seen, I suppose that you can see how they draw that conclusion."<p>



<p>



<p>



"It means," Stockman said, "that you have to have some recalibration in the

policy. The thing was put together so fast that it probably should have been

put together differently." With mild regret, Stockman looked back at what had

gone wrong:<p>



<p>



<p>



"The defense numbers got out of control and we were doing that whole

budget-cutting exercise so frenetically. In other words, you were juggling

details, pushing people, and going from one session to another, trying to cut

housing programs here and rural electric there, and we were doing it so fast,

we didn't know where we were ending up for sure . . . In other words, we should

have designed those pieces to be more compatible. But the pieces were moving on

independent tracks--the tax program, where we were going on spending, and the

defense program, which was just a bunch of numbers written on a piece of paper.

And it didn't quite mesh. That's what happened. But, you see, for about a month

and a half we got away with that because of the novelty of all these budget

reductions."<p>



<p>



<p>



Reagan's policy-makers knew that their plan was wrong, or at least inadequate

to its promised effects, but the President went ahead and conveyed the opposite

impression to the American public. With the cool sincerity of an experienced

television actor, Reagan appeared on network TV to rally the nation in support

of the Gramm-Latta resolution, promising a new era of fiscal control and

balanced budgets, when Stockman knew they still had not found the solution.

This practice of offering the public eloquent reassurances despite privately

held doubts was not new, of course. Every contemporary President--starting with

Lyndon Johnson, in his attempt to cover up the true cost of the war in

Vietnam--had been caught, sooner or later, in contradictions between promises

and economic realities. The legacy was a deep popular skepticism about anything

a President promised about the economy. Barely four months in office, Ronald

Reagan was already adding to the legacy.<p>



<p>



<p>



Indeed, Stockman began in May to plot what he called the "recalibration" of

Reagan policy, which he hoped could be executed discreetly over the coming

months to eliminate the out-year deficits for 1983 and 1984 that alarmed Wall

Street--without alarming political Washington and losing control in the

congressional arena. "It's very tough, because you don't want to end up like

Carter, where you put a plan out there and then, a month into it, you visibly

and unmistakably change postures. So what you have to do is solve this problem

incrementally, without the appearance of reversal, and there are some ways to

do that."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman saw three main areas of opportunity for closing the gap: defense,

Social Security, and health costs, meaning Medicare and Medicaid. And there was

a fourth: the Reagan tax cut; if it could be modified in the course of the

congressional negotiations already under way, this would make for additional

savings on the revenue side. The public alarm over the deficits was, to some

extent, "fortuitous," from Stockman's viewpoint, because the Wall Street

message supported the sermon that he was delivering to his fellow policy-makers

at the White House: the agonies of budget reduction were only beginning, and,

more to the point, the Reagan Administration could not keep its promise of

balanced budgets unless it was willing to back away from its promised defense

spending, its 10-10-10 tax-cut plan, and the President's pledge to exempt from

cutbacks the so-called "safety-net" programs. Stockman would deliver this

speech, in different forms, all through the summer ahead, trying to create the

leverage for action on those fronts, particularly on defense. He later

explained his strategy:<p>



<p>



<p>



"I put together a list of twenty social programs that have to be zeroed out

completely, like Job Corps, Head Start, women and children's feeding programs,

on and on. And another twenty-five that have to be cut by 50 percent: general

revenue sharing, CETA manpower training, etcetera, etcetera. And then huge

bites that would have to be taken out of Social Security. I mean really fierce,

blood-and-guts stuff--widows' benefits and orphans' benefits, things like that.

And still it didn't add up to $40 billion. So that sort of created a new

awareness of the defense budget . . .<p>



<p>



<p>



"Once you set aside defense and Social Security, the Medicare complex, and a

few other sacred cows of minor dimension, like the VA and the FBI, you have

less than $200 billion worth of discretionary room--only $144 billion after you

cut all the easy discretionary programs this year."<p>



<p>



<p>



In short, the fundamental arithmetic of the federal budget, which Stockman and

others had brushed aside in the heady days of January, was now back to haunt

them. If the new administration would not cut defense or Social Security or

major "safety-net" programs that Reagan had put off limits, then it must savage

the smaller slice remaining. Otherwise, balancing the budget in 1984 became an

empty promise. The political pain of taking virtually all of the budget savings

from government grants and operations would be too great, Stockman believed;

Congress would never stand for it. Therefore, he had to begin educating "the

West Wing guys" on the necessity for major revisions in their basic plan. He

was surprisingly optimistic. "They are now understanding all those things,"

Stockman said. "A month ago, they didn't. They really thought you could find

$144 billion worth of waste, fraud, and abuse. So at least I've made a lot of

headway internally."<p>



<p>



<p>



Revisions of the original tax-cut plan would probably be the easiest

compromise. A modest delay in the effective date would save billions and,

besides, many conservatives in Congress were never enthusiastic about the

supply-side tax-cutting formula. In order to win its passage, the

administration was "prepared to give a little bit on the tax bill," Stockman

said, which would help cure his problem of deficits.<p>



<p>



<p>



Social Security was much more volatile, but Stockman noted that the Senate had

already expressed a willingness in test votes to reconsider such basic

components as annual cost-of-living increases for retirees. In the House, the

Democrats, led by J. J. Pickle, of Texas, were preparing their own set of

reforms to keep the system from bankruptcy, so Stockman thought it would be

possible to develop a consensus for real changes. He didn't much care for

Pickle's proposals, because the impact of the reforms stretched out over some

years, whereas Stockman was looking for immediate relief. "I'm just not going

to spend a lot of political capital solving some other guy's problem in 2010."

But he felt sure a compromise could be worked out. "If you don't do this in

1981, this system is going to land on the rocks," he predicted, "because you

won't do it in '82 [a congressional election year] and by '83, you will have

solvency problems coming out of your ears. You know, sometimes sheer reality

has a sobering effect."<p>



<p>



<p>



Finally, there was defense. Stockman thought the sobering effects of reality

were working in his favor there, too, but he recognized that the political

tactics were much trickier. In order to get the first round of budget cuts

through Congress, particularly in order to lure the southern Democrats to the

President's side, there must be no hint of retreat from Reagan's promises for

the Pentagon. That would mobilize the defense lobby against him and help the

Democrats hold control of the House. Still, when the timing was right, Stockman

thought he would prevail.<p>



<p>



<p>



"They got a blank check," Stockman admitted. "We didn't have time during that

February-March period to do anything with defense. Where are we going to cut?

Domestic? Or struggle all day and night with defense? So I let it go. But it

worked perfectly, because they got so goddamned greedy that they got themselves

strung way out there on a limb."<p>



<p>



<p>



As policy-makers and politicians faced up to the additional cuts required in

programs, the pressure would lead them back, inevitably, to a tough-minded

re-examination of the defense side. Or so Stockman believed. That combination

of events, he suggested, would complete the circle for Wall Street.<p>



<p>



<p>



"The markets will respond to that. Unless they are absolutely perverse."<p>



<p>



<p><br><br><p>





<b>IV. Old Politics</b><p>



<p>



<p>



The President's televised address, in April, was masterly and effective: the

nation responded with a deluge of mail and telephone calls, and the House of

Representatives accepted Reagan's version of budget reconciliation over the

Democratic alternative. The final roll call on the Gramm-Latta resolution was

not even close, with sixty-three Democrats joining all House Republicans in

support of the President. The stunning victory and the disorganized opposition

from the Democrats confirmed for Stockman a political hunch he had first

developed when he saw the outlines of Representative Jim Jones's resolution,

mimicking the administration's budget-cutting. The 1980 election results may

not have been "ideological," but the members of Congress seemed to be

interpreting them that way.<p>



<p>



<p>



This new context, Stockman felt, would be invaluable for the weeks ahead, as

the budget-and-tax issues moved into the more complicated and vulnerable areas

of action. The generalized budget-cutting instructions voted by the House were

now sent to each of the authorizing committees, most of them chaired by

old-line liberal Democrats who would try to save the programs in their

jurisdictions, but their ability to counterattack was clearly limited by the

knowledge that President Reagan, not Speaker Tip O'Neill, controlled the floor

of the House. Stockman expected the Democratic chairmen to employ all of their

best legislative tricks to feign cooperation while actually undermining the

Reagan budget cuts, but he was already preparing another Republican resolution,

dubbed "Son of Gramm-Latta," to make sure the substantive differences were

maintained--the block grants that melded social programs and turned them over

to the states, the "caps" on Medicaid and other open-ended entitlement

programs, the "zeroing out" of others.<p>



<p>



<p>



In the first round, Stockman felt that he had retreated on very little. He made

the trade with Representative Montgomery on VA hospitals, and his old friend

Representative Gramm had restored some "phase-out" funds for EDA, the agency

Stockman so much wished to abolish. "He put it in there over my objections,"

Stockman explained, "because he needed to keep three or four people happy. I

said okay, but we're not bound by it." The Republican resolution also projected

a lower deficit than Stockman thought was realistic, as a tactical necessity.

"Gramm felt he couldn't win on the floor unless they had a lower deficit,

closer to Jones's deficit, so they got it down to $31 billion by hook or by

crook, mostly the latter."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was supremely confident at that point. The Reagan Administration had

taken the measure of its political opposition and had created a new climate in

Washington, a new agenda. Now what remained was to follow through in a

systematic way that would convince the financial markets. In the middle of May,

he made another prediction: the bull market on Wall Street, the one he had

expected in April, would arrive by late summer or early fall.<p>



<p>



<p>



"I think we're on the verge of the response in the financial markets. It takes

one more piece of the puzzle, resolution of the tax bill. And that may happen

relatively quickly, and when it does, I think you'll start a long bull market,

by the end of the summer and early fall. The reinforcement that the President

got politically in the legislative process will be doubled, barring some new

war in the Middle East, by a perceived economic situation in which things are

visibly improving. I'm much more confident now."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was wrong, of course, about the bull market. But his misinterpretation

of events was more profound than that. Without recognizing it at the time, the

budget director was headed into a summer in which not only financial markets

but life itself seemed to be absolutely perverse. The Reagan program kept

winning in public, a series of well-celebrated political victories in

Congress--yet privately Stockman was losing his struggle.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was changing, in a manner that perhaps he himself did not recognize.

His conversations began to reflect a new sense of fatalism, a brittle edge of

uncertainty.<p>



<p>



<p>



"There was a certain dimension of our theory that was unrealistic. . ."<p>



<p>



<p>



"The system has an enormous amount of inertia . ."<p>



<p>



<p>



"I don't believe too much in the momentum theory any more. . ."<p>



<p>



<p>



"I have a new theory--there are no real conservatives in Congress. . ."<p>



<p>



<p>



The turning point, which Stockman did not grasp at the time, came in May,

shortly after the first House victory. Buoyed by the momentum, the White House

put forward, with inadequate political soundings, the Stockman plan for Social

Security reform. Among other things, it proposed a drastic reduction in the

benefits for early retirement at age sixty-two. Stockman thought this was a

privilege that older citizens could comfortably yield, but 64 percent of those

eligible for Social Security were now taking early retirement, and the "reform"

plan set off a sudden tempest on Capitol Hill. Democrats accused Reagan of

reneging on his promise to exempt Social Security from the budget cuts and

accused Stockman of trying to balance his budget at the expense of Social

Security recipients, which, of course, he was. "The Social Security problem is

not simply one of satisfying actuaries," Stockman conceded. "It's one of

satisfying the here-and-now of budget requirements." In the initial flurry of

reaction, the Senate passed a unanimous resolution opposing the OMB version of

how to reform Social Security, and across the nation, the elderly were alarmed

enough to begin writing and calling their representatives in Congress. But

Stockman seemed not to grasp the depth of his political problem: he still

believed that congressional reaction would quiet down eventual and Democrats

would cooperate with him.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Three things," he explained. "First, the politicians in the White House are

over-reacting. They're overly alarmed. Second, there is a serious political

problem with it, but not of insurmountable dimensions. And third, basically I

screwed up quite a bit on the way the damn thing was handled."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman said that Republicans on Ways and Means were urging him to propose an

administration reform plan as an alternative to the Democrats'; Stockman

misjudged the political climate. The White House plan, put together in haste,

had "a lot of technical bloopers," which made it even more vulnerable to

attack, Stockman said. "I was just racing against the clock. All the office

things l knew ought to be done by way of groundwork, advance preparation, and

so forth just fell by the wayside. . . Now we're taking the flak from all the

rest of the Republicans because we didn't inform them."<p>



<p>



<p>



Despite the political uproar, Stockman thought a compromise would eventually

emerge, because of the pressure to "save" Social Security. This would give him

at least a portion of the budget savings he needed. "I still think we'll

recover a good deal of ground from this. It will permit the politicians to make

it look like they're doing something for the beneficiary population when they

are doing something to it which they normally wouldn't have the courage to

undertake."<p>



<p>



<p>



But there was less "courage" among politicians than Stockman assumed. Indeed,

one politician who scurried away from the President's proposed cuts in Social

Security was the President. Stockman wanted him to go on television again,

address the nation on Social Security's impending bankruptcy, and build a

popular constituency for the changes. But White House advisers did not.<p>



<p>



<p>



"The President was very interested [in the reform package] and he believed it

was the right thing to do. The problem is that the politicians are so wary of

the Social Security issue per se that they want to keep him away from it,

thinking they could somehow have an administration initiative that came out of

the boondocks somewhere and the President wouldn't be tagged with it. Well,

that was just pure naive nonsense. . . My view was, if you had to play this

thing over, you should have the President go on TV and give a twenty-minute

Fireside Chat, with some nice charts. . . You could have created a climate in

which major things could be changed."<p>



<p>



<p>



The White House rejected that idea. Ronald Reagan kept his distance from the

controversy, but it would not go away. In September, Reagan did finally address

the issue in a televised chat with the nation: he disowned Stockman's reform

plan. Reagan said that there was a lot of "misinformation" about in the land,

to the effect that the President wanted to cut Social Security. Not true, he

declared, though Reagan had proposed such a cut in May. Indeed, the President

not only buried the Social Security cuts he had proposed earlier but retreated

on one reform measure--elimination of the minimum benefits--that Congress had

already, reluctantly, approved. As though he had missed the long debate on that

issue, Reagan announced that it was never his intention to deprive anyone who

was in genuine need. Any legislative action toward altering Social Security

would be postponed until 1983, after the 1982 congressional elections, and too

late to help Stockman with his stubborn deficits. In the meantime, Reagan

accepted a temporary solution advocated by the Democrats and denounced by

Stockman as "irresponsible"--borrowing from another federal trust fund that was

in surplus, the health-care fund, to cover Social Security's problems. Everyone

put the best face on it, including Stockman. The tactical retreat, they

explained, was the only thing Reagan could do under the circumstances--a smart

move, given the explosive nature of the Social Security protest. Still, it was

a retreat, and, for David Stockman, a fundamental defeat. He lost one major

source of potential budget savings. The political outcome did not suggest that

he would do much better when he proposed reforms for Medicare, Social

Security's twin.<p>



<p>



<p>



Where ould Stockman find the money to cover those deficits, variously estimated

at $44 to $65 billion? The tax-cut legislation itself became one of Stockman's

best hopes. The tax bargaining had begun in the spring as a delicate process of

private negotiations and reassurances with different groups--with Democrats

needed for a House majority, with nervous Republicans still leery of the

supply-side theology, and with the supply-side apostles zealously defending

their creed. Stockman was a participant, though not the lead player, in this

process; he met almost daily with the legislative tactical group at the White

House--Edwin Meese, Jim Baker, Donald Regan, presidential assistant Richard

Darman, and others--that called signals on both the tax legislation and budget

reconciliation.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman's interest was made clear to the others: he wanted a compromise on the

tax bill which would substantially reduce its drain on the federal treasury and

thus moderate the fiscal damage of Reaganomics. Stockman thought that if the

Republicans could compromise with the Ways and Means chairman, Representative

Dan Rostenkowski, the tax legislation would still be a supplyside tax cut in

its approach but considerably smaller in size. More important, they would avoid

a bidding war for votes. "We're kind of divided, not in an antagonistic sense,

just sort of a judgment sense, between those who want to call off the game . .

. and those of us who want to give Rostenkowski a few more days to see what he

can achieve."<p>



The negotiations with Rostenkowski ended in failure, and the Reagan team agreed

that it would have to modify its own tax-cut plan in order to lure fiscal

conservatives. Under the revised plan, the first-year reduction was only 5

percent and, more important, the impact was delayed until late in the year,

substantially reducing the revenue loss. The White House also made substantial

changes in the business-depreciation and tax-credit rules, which were intended

to stimulate new industrial investments, reducing the overly generous

provisions for business tax write-offs on new equipment and buildings.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was privately delighted: he saw a three-year revenue savings of $70

billion in the compromise. The depreciation rules that big business wanted were

"way out of joint," Stockman insisted. But he was nervous about the $70 billion

figure, because he feared that when Representative Jack Kemp (co-sponsor of the

original supply-side tax proposal, the Kemp-Roth bill) and other supply-side

advocates heard it, they might regard the savings as so large that it would

undermine the stimulative effects of the major tax reduction. "As long as Jack

is happy with what's happening," Stockman said, "it's hard for the

[supply-side] network to mobilize itself with a shrill voice. Jack's satisfied,

although we're sort of on the edge of thin ice with him."<p>



<p>



<p>



The supply-side effects would still be strong, Stockman said, but he added a

significant disclaimer that would have offended true believers, for it sounded

like old orthodoxy: "I've never believed that just cutting taxes alone will

cause output and employment to expand."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman himself had been a late convert to supply-side theology, and now he

was beginning to leave the church. The theory of "expectations" wasn't working.

He could see that. And Stockman's institutional role as budget director forced

him to look constantly at aspects of the political economy that the other

supply-siders tended to dismiss. Whatever the reason, Stockman was creating

some distance between himself and the supply-side purists; eventually, he would

become the target of their nasty barbs. For his part, Stockman began to

disparage the grand theory as a kind of convenient illusion--new rhetoric to

cover old Republican doctrine.<p>



<p>



<p>



"The hard part of the supply-side tax cut is dropping the top rate from 70 to

50 percent--the rest of it is a secondary matter," Stockman explained. "The

original argument was that the top bracket was too high, and that's having the

most devastating effect on the economy. Then, the general argument was that, in

order to make this palatable as a political matter, you had to bring down all

the brackets. But, I mean, Jemp-Roth was always a Trojan horse to bring down

the top rate."<p>



<p>



<p>



A Trojan horse? This seemed a cynical concession for Stockman to make in

private conversation while the Reagan Administration was still selling the

supply-side doctrine to Congress. Yet he was conceding what the liberal

Keynesian critics had argued from the outset--the supply-side theory was not a

new economic theory at all but only new language and argument to conceal a

hoary old Republican doctrine: give the tax cuts to the top brackets, the

wealthiest individuals and largest enterprises, and let the good effects

"trickle down" through the economy to reach everyone else. Yes, Stockman

conceded, when one stripped away the new rhetoric emphasizing across-the-board

cuts, the supplyside theory was really new clothes for the unpopular doctrine

of the old Republican orthodoxy. "It's kind of hard to sell 'trickle down,'" he

explained, "so the supply-side formula was the only way to get a tax policy

that was really 'trickle down.' Supply-side is 'trickle-down' theory."<p>



<p>



<p>



But the young budget director once again misjudged the political context. The

scaled-down version of the administration's tax bill would need to carry a few

"ornaments" in order to win--a special bail-out to help the troubled

savings-and-loan industry, elimination of the so-called marriage penalty--but

he was confident that the Reagan majority would hold and he could save $70

billion against those out-year deficits. The business lobbyists would object,

he conceded, when they saw the new Republican version of depreciation

allowances, but the key congressmen were "on board," and the package would

hold.<p>



<p>



<p>



In early June, it fell apart. The tax lobbyists of Washington, when they saw

the outlines of the Reagan tax bill, mobilized the business community, the

influential economic sectors from oil to real estate. In a matter of days, they

created the political environment in which they flourish best--a bidding war

between the two parties. First the Democrats revealed that their tax bill would

be more generous than Reagan's in its depreciation rules. Despite Stockman's

self-confidence, the White House quickly retreated--scrapped its revised and

leaner proposal, and began matching the Democrats, billion for billion, in tax

concessions. The final tax legislation would yield, in total, an astounding

revenue loss for the federal government of $750 billion over the next five

years.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman, with his characteristic ability to adjust his premises to new

political realities, at first insisted that the White House cave-in on the

business-depreciation issue was of no consequence to his budget problems, since

the major impact of the concessions would hit the period 1985 and 1986, beyond

the budget years he was struggling with.<p>



<p>



<p>



Nevertheless, Stockman conceded that the administration had flinched, sending a

clear signal to the political interests that it would respond to pressure. "I

think we're in trouble on the tax bill," he said in mid-June, "because we

started with the position that this was a policy-based bill . . . that we

weren't going to get involved in the tax-bill brokering of special-interest

claims. But then we made the compromise. . . My fear now is that, if we do that

too many times, it becomes clear to the whole tax-lobby constituency in

Washington that we will deal with them one at a time, and then you'll find

their champions on the tax-writing committees, especially Finance, swinging

into action, and we are going to end up back-pedaling so fast that we will have

the 'Christmas tree' bill before we know it."<p>



<p>



<p>



That was an stute frocast of what unfolded over the next six weeks. Stockman

both participated in the process and privately denounced it. But he was not

fully engaged in the political scramble for tax concessions, because he was

preoccupied with controlling another political auction already under way: the

furious bumping-and-trading for the final budget-cutting measure, the

reconciliation bill. The thirteen authorizing committees of the House were

drawing up the legislative parts to comply with the budget instructions voted

by the House in May; simultaneously, the Republican minority members of those

committees were drawing up their alternatives, which would become pieces of the

administration's alternative--"Son of Gramm-Latta." Stockman was working

closely with the Republican drafting in the House, but at the same time he was

trying to keep the specific cuts and policy changes in line with the work of

the Republican committee chairmen in the Senate. Stockman had a believable

nightmare: if House and Senate produced drastically different versions of the

final reconciliation measure, there could be a conference committee between the

two chambers that would include hundreds of members and months of combat over

the differences. Failure to settle quickly could sink the entire budget-cutting

enterprise.<p>



<p>



<p>



Some of the Democratic committee chairmen were playing the "Washington Monument

game" (a metaphor for phony budget cuts, in which the National Park Service,

ordered to save money, announces that it is closing the Washington Monument).

The Education and Labor Committee made deep cuts in programs that it knew were

politically sacred: Head Start and impact aid for local schools, and care for

the elderly. The Post Office and Civil Service Committee proposed closing 5,000

post offices. Stockman could deal with those ploys--indeed, he felt they

strengthened his hand--but he was weakened on other fronts. Again, he had to

hold all Republicans and win several dozen of the "boll weevils"--to

demonstrate that Ronald Reagan controlled the House. It was not a matter of

trading with liberal constituencies and their representatives; Stockman had to

do his trading with the conservatives. "In that kind of game," he said,

"everybody can ask a big price for one vote."<p>



<p>



<p>



The final pasted-together measure would be several thousand pages of

legislative action and, Stockman feared, another version of the Trojan

horse--"a Trojan horse filled full of all kinds of budget-busting measures and

secondary agendas."<p>



<p>



<p>



A group of twenty northern and midwestern, more moderate Republicans, who

organized themselves as "gypsy moths" as a counterweight to the "boll weevils,"

threatened defection. In the end, concessions were made: $350 million more for

Medicaid, $400 million more for homeheating subsidies for the poor, $260

million in mass-transit operating funds, more money for Amtrak and Conrail. The

administration agreed to put even more money into the nuclear-power project

that Stockman loathed, the Clinch River fast-breeder reactor. It accepted a

large authorization for the Export-Import Bank, and more.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman tried to keep everything in line. When he agreed with House

Republicans to restore $100 million or so to Amtrak, he had to go back and

alert Bob Packwood, of Oregon, chairman of the Senate committee. "The Senate

level which his committee tentatively voted out would have shut down a train in

Oregon," Stockman said, "and he didn't relish the prospect of not being able to

defend his train in the Senate and have it put back in by House Republicans."<p>



<p>



<p>



In private, the budget director claimed that these new spending figures that

Republicans had agreed upon for the various federal programs were not final but

merely authorization ceilings, which could be reduced later on, when the

appropriations bills for departments and agencies worked their way through the

legislative process. "It doesn't mean that you've lost ground," he said

blithely of his compromises, "because in the appropriations process we can

still insist on $100 million (or whatever other figures appeared in the

original Reagan budget) and veto the bill if it goes over. . . On these

authorizations, we can give some ground and then have another run at it."<p>



<p>



<p>



This codicil of Stockman's was apparently not communicated to the Republicans

with whom he was making deals. They presumed that the final figures negotiated

with Stockman were final figures. Later on, they discovered that the budget

director didn't agree. When in September the President announced a new round of

reductions, $13 billion in across-the-board cuts for fiscal year 1982, the

ranks of his congressional supporters accused Stockman of breaking his word. In

private, some used stronger language. The new budget cuts Stockman prepared in

September did, indeed, scrap many of the agreements he negotiated in June when

he was collecting enough votes to pass the President's reconciliation bill. In

the political morality that prevails in Washington, this was regarded as

dishonorable behavior, and Stockman's personal standing was damaged.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Piranhas," Stockman called the Republican dealers. Yet he was a willing

participant in one of the rankest trades--his casual promise that the Reagan

Administration would not oppose revival of sugar supports, a scandalous

price-support loan program killed by Congress in 1979. Sugar subsidies might

not cost the government anything. but could cost consumers $2 to $15 billion.

"In economic principle, it's kind of a rotten idea," he conceded. Did Ronald

Reagan's White House object? "They don't care, over in the White House. They

want to win."<p>



<p>



<p>



This process of trading, vote by vote, injured Stockman in more profound ways,

beyond the care or cautions of his fellow politicians. It was undermining his

original moral premise--the idea that honest free-market conservatism could

unshackle the government from the costly claims of interest-group politics in a

way that was fair to both the weak and the strong. To reject weak claims from

powerful clients--that was the intellectual credo that allowed him to hack away

so confidently at wasteful social programs, believing that he was being equally

tough-minded on the wasteful business subsidies. Now, as the final balance was

being struck, he was forced to concede in private that the claim of equity in

shrinking the government was significantly compromised if not obliterated.<p>



<p>



<p>



The final reconciliation measure authorized budget reductions of $35.1 billion,

about $6 billion less than the President's original proposal, though Stockman

and others said the difference would be made up through shrinking "off-budget"

programs, which are not included in the appropriations process. The block

grants and reductions and caps that Reagan proposed were partially

successful--some sixty major programs were consolidated in different

block-grant categories--though Stockman lost several important reforms in the

final scrambling, among them the cap on the runaway costs of Medicaid, and user

fees for federal waterways. The Reagan Administration eliminated dozens of

smaller activities and drastically scaled down dozens of others.<p>



<p>



In political terms, it was a great victory. Ronald Reagan became the first

President since Lyndon Johnson to demonstrate both the tactical skill and the

popular strength to stare down the natural institutional opposition of

Congress. Moreover, he forced Congress to slog through a series of unique and

painful legislative steps--a genuine reconciliation measure--that undermined

the parochial baronies of the committee chairmen. Around Washington, even among

the critics who despised what he was attempting, there was general agreement

that the Reagan Administration would not have succeeded, perhaps would not even

have gotten started, without the extraordinary young man who had a plan. He

knew what he wanted to attack and he knew Congress well enough to know how to

attack.<p>



<p>



<p>



Yet, in the glow of victory, why was David Stockman so downcast? Another young

man, ambitious for his future, might have seized the moment to claim his full

share of praise. Stockman did appear on the Sunday talk shows, and was

interviewed by the usual columnists. But in private, he was surprisingly modest

about his achievement. Two weeks after selling Congress on the biggest package

of budget reductions in the history of the republic, Stockman was willing to

dismiss the accomplishment as less significant than the participants realized.

Why? Because he knew that much more traumatic budget decisions still confronted

them. Because he knew that the budget-resolution numbers were an exaggeration.

The total of $35 billion was less than it seemed, because the "cuts" were from

an imaginary number--hypothetical projections from the Congressional Budget

Office on where spending would go if nothing changed in policy or economic

activity. Stockman knew that the CBO base was a bit unreal. Therefore, the

total of "cuts" was, too.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman explained: "There was less there than met the eye. Nobody has figured

it out yet. Let's say that you and I walked outside and I waved a wand and

said, I've just lowered the temperature from 110 to 78. Would you believe me?

What this was was a cut from an artificial CBO base. That's why it looked so

big. But it wasn't. It was a significant and helpful cut from what you might

call the moving track of the budget of the government, but the numbers are just

out of this world. The government never would have been up at those levels in

the CBO base."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was proud of what had been changed--shutting down the $4 billion CETA

jobs program and others, putting real caps on runaway programs such as the

trade adjustment assistance for unemployed industrial workers. "Those were

powerful spending programs that have been curtailed," he said, "but there was a

kind of consensus emerging for that anyway, even before this administration.

"<p>



<p>



<p>



All in all, Stockman gave a modest summary of what had been wrought by the

budget victory. "It has really slowed down the momentum, but it hasn't stopped

what you would call the excessive growth of the budget. Because the budget

isn't something you reconstruct each year. The budget is a sort of rolling

history of decisions. All kinds of decisions, made five, ten, fifteen years

ago, are coming back to bite us unexpectedly. Therefore, in my judgment, it

will take three or four or five years to subdue it. Whether anyone can maintain

the political momentum to fight the beast for that long, I don't know."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman, the natural optimist, was not especially optimistic. The future of

fiscal conservatism, in a political community where there are "no real

conservatives," no longer seemed so promising to him. He spoke in an analytical

tone, a sober intellect trying to figure things out, and only marginally

bitter, as he assessed what had happened to his hopes since January. In July,

he was forced to conclude that, despite the appearance of a great triumph, his

original agenda was fading, not flourishing.<p>



<p>



<p>



"I don't believe too much in the momentum theory any more," he said. "I believe

in institutional inertia. Two months of response can't beat fifteen years of

political infrastructure. I'm talking about K Street and all of the interest

groups in this town, the community of interest groups. We sort of stunned it,

but it just went underground for the winter. It will be back . . . Can we win?

A lot of it depends on events and luck. If we got some bad luck, a flareup in

the Middle East, a scandal, it could all fall apart."<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman's dour outlook was reinforced two weeks later, when the Reagan

coalition prevailed again in the House and Congress passed the tax-cut

legislation with a final frenzy of trading and bargaining. Again, Stockman was

not exhilarated by the victory. On the contrary, it seemed to leave a bad taste

in his mouth, as though the democratic process had finally succeeded in

shocking him by its intensity and its greed. Once again, Stockman participated

in the trading--special tax concessions for oil--lease holders and real-estate

tax shelters, and generous loopholes that virtually eliminated the corporate

income tax. Stockman sat in the room and saw it happen.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Do you realize the greed that came to the forefront?" Stockman asked with

wonder. "The hogs were really feeding. The greed level, the level of

opportunism, just got out of control."<p>



<p>



<p>



Indeed, when the Republicans and Democrats began their competition for

authorship of tax concessions, Stockman saw the "new political climate"

dissolve rather rapidly and be replaced by the reflexes of old politics. Every

tax lobby in town, from tax credits for wood-burning stoves to new accounting

concessions for small business, moved in on the legislation, and pet amendments

for obscure tax advantage and profit became the pivotal issues of legislative

action, not the grand theories of supply-side tax reduction. "The politics of

the bill turned out to be very traditional. The politics put us back in the

game, after we started making concessions. The basic strategy was to match or

exceed the Democrats, and we did."<p>



<p>



<p>



But Stockman was buoyant about the political implications of the tax

legislation: first, because it put a tightening noose around the size of the

government; second, because it gave millions of middle-class voters tangible

relief from inflation, even if the stimulative effects on the economy were mild

or delayed. Stockman imagined the tax cutting as perhaps the beginning of a

large-scale realignment of political loyalties, away from old-line liberalism

and toward Reaganism.<p>



<p>



<p>



And where did principle hide? Stockman, with his characteristic mixture of

tactical cynicism and intellectual honesty, was unwilling to defend the moral

premises of what had occurred. The "idea-based" policies that he had espoused

at the outset were, in the final event, greatly compromised by the

"constituency-based" politics that he abhorred. What had changed,

fundamentally, was the list of winning clients, not the nature of the game.

Stockman had said the new conservatism would pursue equity,<p>



even as it attempted to shrink the government. It would honor just claims and

reject spurious ones, instead of simply serving powerful clients over weak

clients. He was compelled to agree, at the legislative climax, that the

original moral premises had not been served, that the new principles of

Reaganism were compromised by the necessity of winning.<p>



<p>



<p>



"I now understand,' he said, "that you probably can't put together a majority

coalition unless you are willing to deal with those marginal interests that

will give you the votes needed to win. That's where it is fought--on the

margins--and unless you deal with those marginal votes you can't win."<p>



<p>



<p>



In order to enact Reagan's version of tax reduction, certain wages" had to be

paid, and, as Stockman reasoned, the process of brokering was utterly free of

principle or policy objectives. The power flowed to the handful of

representatives who could reverse the majority regardless of the interests they

represented. Once the Reagan tacticians began making concessions beyond their

"policy-based" agenda, it developed that their trades and compromises and

giveaways were utterly indistinguishable from the decades of interest-group

accommodations that preceded them, which they so <p>



righteously denounced. What was new about the Reagan revolution, in which

oil-royalty owners win and welfare mothers lose? Was the new philosophy so

different from old Republicanism when the federal subsidies for Boeing and

Westinghouse and General Electric were protected, while federal subsidies for

unemployed black teenagers were "zeroed out"? One could go on, at great length,

searching for balance and equity in the outcome of the Reagan program without

satisfying the question; the argument will continue as a central theme of

electoral politics for the next few years. For now, Stockman would concede this

much: that "weak clients" suffered for their weakness.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Power is contingent," he said. "The power of these client groups turned out to

be stronger than I realized. The client groups know how to make themselves

heard. The problem is, unorganized groups can't play in this game."<p>



<p>



<p>



When Congress recessed for its August vacation and President Reagan tools off

for his ranch in the West, David Stockman had a surprising answer to one of his

original questions: could he prevail in the political arena, against the status

quo? His original skepticism about Congress was mistaken; the administration

had prevailed brilliantly as politicians. And yet, it also seemed that the

status quo, in an intangible sense that most politicians would not even

recognize, much less worry over, had prevailed over David Stockman.<p>



<p>



<p><br><br><p>





<b>V. "Who Knows?"</b><p>



<p>



<p>



Generally, he did not lose his temper, but on a pleasant afternoon in early

September, Stockman returned from a meeting at the White House in a terrible

black mood. In his ornately appointed office at OMB, he slammed his papers down

on the desk and waved away associates. At the Oval Office that afternoon,

Stockman had lost the great argument he had been carefully preparing since

February: there would be no major retrenchment in the defense budget. Over the

summer, Stockman had made converts, one by one, in the Cabinet and among the

President's senior advisers. But he could not convince the only hawk who

mattered--Ronald Reagan. When the President announced that he would reduce the

Pentagon budget by only $13 billion over the next three years, it seemed a

pitiful sum compared with what he proposed for domestic programs, hardly a

scratch on the military complex, which was growing toward $350 billion a

year.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Defense is setting itself up for a big fall," Stockman had predicted. "If they

try to roll me and win, they're going to have a huge problem in Congress. The

pain level is going to be too high. If the Pentagon isn't careful, they are

going to turn it into a priorities debate in an election year."<p>



<p>



<p>



Two days later, when we met for another breakfast conversation, Stockman had

recovered from his anger. The argument over the defense budget, he insisted

crankily, was a tempest stirred up by the press. The defense budget was never

contemplated as a major target for savings. When Stockman was reminded of his

earlier claims and predictions--how he would attack the Pentagon's bloated

inefficiencies, assisted by a clear-eyed secretary of defense--he shrugged and

smiled thinly.<p>



<p>



<p>



Autumn was cruel to David Stockman's idea of how the world should work. The

summer, when furious legislative trading was under way, had tattered his moral

vision of government. Politics, in the dirty sense, had prevailed. Now he was

confronted with more serious possibilities--the failure of the economic

strategy and the political unraveling that he had feared from the beginning. On

Capitol Hill, where Stockman was admired and envied for his nimble mind, where

even critics conceded that his presence in the Cabinet was essential to Ronald

Reagan's opening victories, politicians of both parties were beginning to reach

a different conclusion about him. Despite the wizardry, Stockman did not have

all the answers, after all. The wizard was prepared to agree.<p>



<p>



<p>



His failed expectations were derived from many events. In August, when

enactment of the Reagan program was supposed to create a boom, instead, the

financial markets sagged. Interest rates went still higher, squeezing the

various sectors of the American economy. Real-estate sales were dead, and the

housing industry was at a historic low point. The same was true for auto sales.

Farmers complained about the exorbitant interest demanded for annual crop

loans. Hundreds of savings-and-loan associations were at the edge of

insolvency. The treasury secretary, perhaps also losing his original faith in

the supply-side formulation, suggested that it was time for the Federal Reserve

Board to loosen up on its tight monetary policy. Donald Regan saw a recession

approaching.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman's prospects for balancing the budget were getting worse, not better.

The optimistic economic forecast made in January to improve his original budget

projections came back to haunt him in September. The inflation rate was down

considerably (a prediction fortuitously correct because of oil and grain

prices) but interest rates were not: the cost of federal borrowing and debt

payments went still higher.<p>



<p>



<p>



Stockman was boxed in, and he knew it. Unable to cut defense or Social Security

or to modify the overly generous tax legislation, he was forced to turn back to

the simple arithmetic of the federal budget--and cut even more from that

smaller slice of the federal dollar that pays for government operations and

grants and other entitlements. For six months, Stockman had been explaining to

"the West Wing guys" that this math wouldn't add. When Reagan proposed his new

round of $16 billion in savings, the political outrage confirmed the diagnosis.

Stockman was accused of breaking the agreements he had made in June: Senate

Republicans who had accepted the "magic asterisk" so docilely were now talking

of rebellion--postponing the enormous tax reductions they had just enacted.

While the White House promised a war of vetoes ahead, intended to demonstrate

"fiscal control," Stockman knew that even if those short-range battles were

won, the budget would not be balanced.<p>



<p>



<p>



Disappointed by events and confronted with potential failure, the Reagan White

House was developing a new political strategy: wage war with Congress over the

budget issues and, in 1982, blame the Democrats for whatever goes wrong.<p>



<p>



<p>



The budget director developed a new wryness as he plunged gamely on with these

congressional struggles; it was a quality more appealing than certitude.

Appearing before the House Budget Committee, Stockman listed a new budget item

on his deficit sheet, drolly labeled "Inaction on Social Security." With

remarkable directness and no "magic asterisks," he described the outlook:

federal deficits of $60 billion in each of the next three years. Some analysts

thought his predictions were modest. In the autumn of 1981, despite his great

victories in Congress, Ronald Reagan had not as yet produced a plausible answer

to John Anderson's question.<p>



<p>



<p>



 Still, things might work out, Stockman said. They might find an answer. The

President's popularity might carry them through. The tax cuts would make people

happy. The economy might start to respond, eventually, to the stimulation of

the tax cuts. "Who knows?" Stockman said. From David Stockman, it was a

startling remark. He would continue to invent new scenarios for success, but

they would be more complicated and cloudy than his original optimism. "Who

knows?" The world was less manageable than he had imagined; this machine had

too many crazy moving parts to incorporate in a single lucid theory. The

"random elements" of history--politics, the economy, the anarchical budget

numbers--were out of control.<p>



<p>



<p>



Where did things go wrong? Stockman kept asking and answering the right

questions. The more he considered it, the more he moved away from the radical

vision of reformer, away from the wishful thinking of supply-side economics,

and toward the "old-time religion" of conservative economic thinking. Orthodoxy

seemed less exciting than radicalism, but perhaps Stockman was only starting

into another intellectual transition. He had changed from farm boy to campus

activist at Michigan State, from Christian moralist to neo-conservative at

Harvard; once again, Stockman was reformulating his ideas on how the world

worked. What had he learned?<p>



<p>



<p>



"The reason we did it wrong--not wrong, but less than the optimum--was that we

said, Hey, we have to get a program out fast. And when you decide to put a

program of this breadth and depth out fast, you can only do so much. We were

working in a twenty or twenty-five-day time frame, and we didn't think it all

the way through. We didn't add up all the numbers. We didn't make all the

thorough, comprehensive calculations about where we really needed to come out

and how much to put on the plate the first time, and so forth. In other words,

we ended up with a list that I'd always been carrying of things to be done,

rather than starting the other way and asking, What is the overall fiscal

policy required to reach the target?"<p>



<p>



<p>



That regret was beyond remedy now; all Stockman could do was keep trying on

different fronts, trying to catch up with the shortcomings of the original

Reagan prospectus. But Stockman's new budget-cutting tactics were denounced as

panic by his former allies in the supply-side camp. They now realized that

Stockman regarded them as "overly optimistic" in predicting a painless boom

through across-the-board tax reduction. "Some of the naive supply-siders just

missed this whole dimension," he said. "You don't stop inflation without some

kind of dislocation. You don't stop the growth of money supply in a

three-trillion-dollar economy without some kind of dislocation . . .

Supply-side was the wrong atmospherics--not wrong theory or wrong economics,

but wrong atmospherics... The supply-siders have gone too far. They created

this nonpolitical view of the economy, where you are going to have big changes

and abrupt turns, and their happy vision of this world of growth and no

inflation with no pain."<p>



<p>



<p>



The "dislocations" were multiplying across the nation, creating panic among the

congressmen and senators who had just enacted this "fiscal revolution." But

Stockman now understood that no amount of rhetoric from Washington, not the

President's warmth on television nor his own nimble testimony before

congressional hearings, would alter the economic forces at work. Tight monetary

control should continue, he believed, until the inflationary fevers were

sweated out of the economy. People would be hurt. Afterward, after the

recession, perhaps the supply-side effects could begin--robust expansion, new

investment, new jobs. The question was whether the country or its elected

representatives would wait long enough.<p>



<p>



<p>



His exasperation was evident: "I can't move the system any faster. I can't have

an emergency session of Congress to say, Here's a resolution to cut the

permanent size of government by 18 percent, vote it up or down. If we did that,

it would be all over. But the system works much more slowly. But what can I do

about it? Okay? Nothing. So I'm not going to navel-gaze about it too long."<p>



<p>



<p>



Still trying, still energetic, but no longer abundantly optimistic, Stockman

knew that congressional anxieties over the next election were already stronger,

making each new proposal more difficult. "The 1982 election cycle will tell us

all we need to know about whether the democratic society wants fiscal control

in the federal government," Stockman said grimly.<p>



<p>



<p>



The alternative still energized him. If they failed, if inflation and economic

disorder continued, the conservative reformers would be swept aside by popular

unrest. The nation would turn back toward "statist" solutions, controls devised

and administered from Washington. Stockman shrugged at that possibility.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Whenever there are great strains or changes in the economic system," he

explained, "it tends to generate crackpot theories, which then find their way

into the legislative channels."<p></blockquote>



<p>



<hr>



<blockquote>

William Greider, national editor of Rolling Stone, is author,  most

recently, of  Who Will Tell  the People? The Betrayal of American Democracy.

</blockquote>

<hr>

<br>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>





<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>



<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1981 by William Greider.  All rights reserved.

</font>

</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-40</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B041-26</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/educatio/barr2f.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117194405 text/html 76732
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:42:12 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 22:49:23 GMT
Content-length: 76526
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>

<head> 	



<title>

The Case for More School Days

</title>

</head>



<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

						

<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>November 1990</font><p>







						<!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>



The Case for More School Days



</center></h1> 



<p>







<center><font size=4>by Michael Barrett</font></center>

<p>

<pre>



</pre>

<p>



						<!--UNDERLINE-->

						

<blockquote>

	<i><font size=4>Call it Huck Finn's law:  The

authentic American flourishes in spite of schooling, not because of it. As

applied, this has meant that American kids have one of the shortest school

years in the Western world. It shows. Today what Huck Finn didn't know would

hurt him.</i></font><p>

	

	

	<pre>

	

	</pre>

	

	<font size=5>O</font>ff and on for the surprising stretch of forty years, beginning in 1949, the

Gallup organization has polled the American public on the delicate subject of

whether to lengthen the school year. For many years, though the wording of the

question changed, the results held steady: by substantial margins people

indicated that they did not like the idea. Even in 1959, during the era of

Sputnik and intensified concern over what young Americans were learning, 67

percent of those polled were opposed to "increasing the number of days per year

spent in school" for high school students, while a mere 26 percent were in

favor.<p>



<p>



In the 1980s something different began to happen. In line with the growing

concern about economic competitiveness, Gallup retooled the question to make

explicit comparisons with other countries. Interviewees were told that students

in some nations attend school for as many as 240 days a year, compared with 180

in the United States. In light of this, Gallup asked, how do you feel about

extending the school year by thirty days, to a total of 210? In 1984, fifty

percent were against, 44 percent approved--a finding that, however consistent

with past opposition, showed a distinct narrowing of the gap. In 1989 came the

breakthrough. A new question maintained the comparative focus: "In some nations

students spend about 25% more time in school than do students in the U.S. Would

you favor or oppose increasing the amount of time that students in this

community spend in school?" Forty-eight percent said they were in favor, 44

percent said they were opposed, and eight percent were undecided.<p>



<p>



Read together, these figures record a sea change in public feeling, but the

dike has not exactly burst; state legislatures and local school committees have

not rushed to do anything dramatic. I can offer a personal perspective on the

reasons why. As a Massachusetts state legislator, I discuss education with

parents, children, and teachers, and as someone who believes in the need for a

dramatic extension of the school year, I hold up the unpopular end of many

conversations. Education involves matters intimately familiar to people--their

kids, the rhythms of family life, their own memories of school--and everybody

has an opinion.<p>



<p>



Asked how she and her neighbors would feel about lengthening the school year, a

constituent of mine, a parent of three school-aged daughters, stiffens and

says, "People don't want their options taken away from them. They want freedom

of choice in these things." A student just out of high school, told about the

long school year in Japan, says, "I don't want to be Japanese. I like my

summers. I work hard enough as it is."<p>



<p>



If these soundings and others like them are any guide, America's attachment to

the 180-day school year is still strong. In a world already reeling from future

shock, the notion of extending the year seems punitive, an assault on the idea

of summer itself. It raises the specter of joyless cramming. It implies that

American parents have somehow failed their children.<p>



<p>



Still, with people worried about the direction of the country, the strength of

the economy, and the emerging competition from our friends in Europe and Asia,

it is time to give the matter another look. It is time, too, to examine the

peculiarly American roots of the dug-in resistance to change, and to consider

how, in an era of short money and diminished confidence in government, the

switch to a longer school year might be achieved.<p>



<p>



The accumulating data on comparative education, itself a relatively new

preoccupation of policy specialists, point up two trends. First, compared with

their peers in Asian and European countries, American students stand out for

how little they work. Second, compared with Asians and Europeans, American

students stand out for how poorly they do.<p>



<p>



<p>



BOTTOM DOGS<p>



<p>



<p>



As to the first: consider a list, garnered from a variety of sources, of the

varying number of days in a standard school year. This list was hard to put

together--which tells us something about the neglect of this subject in U.S.

educational circles.<p>



<p>



 Japan    243                                  New Zealand 190<p>



<p>



 West Germany 226-240                Nigeria 190<p>



<p>



 South Korea 220                            British Columbia 185<p>



<p>



Israel 216                                       France 185<p>



<p>



 Luxembourg 216                            Ontario 185<p>



<p>



 Soviet Union 211                            Ireland 184<p>



<p>



 Netherlands 200                             New Brunswick 182<p>



<p>



 Scotland 200                                  Quebec 180<p>



<p>



 Thailand 200                                  Spain 180<p>



<p>



 Hong Kong 195                               Sweden 180<p>



<p>



 England/Wales 192                         United States 180<p>



<p>



 Hungary 192                                   French Belgium 175<p>



<p>



 Swaziland 191                                Flemish Belgium 160<p>



<p>



 Finland 190<p>



<p>



Of course, bare counts of school days do not tell us everything we might like

to know about academic calendars. Japan's Ministry of Education, Science and

Culture prescribes a minimum of 210 calendar days of classroom instruction,

including half-days on Saturdays. Local school boards have the option of adding

more time, and typically call for a total of about 240 days, often using the

bulk of the additional days for field trips, sports activities, student

festivals, and graduation ceremonies. In the United States the 180-day school

year must accommodate field trips, school-wide assemblies, in-service training

for teachers, and anything else that needs doing, reducing the real number of

days of classroom instruction to something considerably less than 180.<p>



<p>



The gap in classroom time between Japan and the United States widens when

student attendance at juku is taken into account. Juku are the private,

profit-making tutorial services that have become ubiquitous in Japan since the

1970s. Operating after school and on weekends--but in such a way as to parallel

the regular education system--they provide enrichment, preparatory, remedial,

and cram courses to an education-hungry young population. By ninth grade more

than 47 percent of Japanese students attend juku, averaging five hours a week

in addition to regular school time.<p>



<p>



Presumably, multinational counts of days of instruction will be refined, in

time, to provide more detail. In the meantime, an observer might note several

things about the list presented above. Highly ranked are Japan, West Germany,

South Korea, and Israel, four nations noted for their discipline and drive.

Hungary, an Eastern-bloc country whose quality of education has not received

much attention in the West, also asks for a good deal of time from its

students. Swaziland and Nigeria, members of the Third World, are reasonably

demanding. And the United States, which has been known to celebrate its own

capacity for discipline and drive, comes in near the bottom. Conceivably such

an order of finish supports the cherished American idea that the Japanese have

a deviant propensity to work harder than almost anyone else. In any event, it

certainly supports the idea that Americans have a deviant propensity to work

less than almost anyone else.<p>



<p>



That there should be an identifiable American school year at all is remarkable

in itself. The federal system in the United States is supposed to encourage

variety, in line with the famous dictum by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis

Brandeis: "There must be power in the States and the Nation to remould, through

experimentation, our economic practices and institutions to meet changing

social and economic needs....It is one of the happy incidents of the federal

system that a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a

laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the

rest of the country."<p>



<p>



State law, rather than any act of Congress, governs the number of days that a

given school system is open. Brandeis would approve, we may assume. But no

single courageous state with a choosy citizenry has undertaken to remold its

schools to meet changing social and economic needs. Instead, conformity rules

with an iron hand. According to the Education Commission of the States, fully

forty-six of the fifty states mandate school years of 175 to 180 days or the

equivalent number of hours. One state requires just over 180; three require

under 175.<p>



<p>



The lack of variety is all the more extraordinary given that state law

typically prescribes the number of school days as a minimum. This means that

thousands of towns, cities, counties, and independent school districts in the

United States are legally free, sometimes subject to state review, to extend

the school year--to, say, somewhere within the West German range of 226 to 240

days. Yet to judge from the available literature, across the entire range of

American education, embracing the fifty states and the thousands of

subdivisions within these states, nary a public school system has broken the

mold in a lasting way. Occasional reports, scattered sightings, are made of

useful but tentative experiments. Beginning with the 1988-1989 academic year

two inner-city elementary schools in New Orleans have operated on a 220-day

calendar, and this past spring the Stanley elementary school in Kansas City,

Kansas, won an RJR Nabisco Foundation grant to add forty-six days to its school

year. Presumably these are approximations of the European and Asian models,

involving more classroom instruction for everybody. They are also precarious,

with no permanent basis in law, no institutionalized existence in the local

community, and no long-term funding mechanisms.<p>



<p>



Elsewhere we find programs built on the traditional notion of summer school,

either for remedial purposes or for enrichment, with participation voluntary

except for students who fail courses. These represent valuable extensions of

educational time, but when attendance is significantly less than 100 percent of

the class, the regular curriculum cannot be lengthened and enriched without

throwing the next fall's semester into chaos.<p>



<p>



Some will maintain that uniformity is a boon to the mobile American family, as

it moves from community to community and state to state But a uniform school

year does not provide a uniform education, or anything like it, because the

curriculum varies from place to place. The mobile American family is guaranteed

a generous, mobile summer vacation, but that is it.<p>



<p>



QUANTITY INTO QUALITY<p>



<p>



In the 1960's the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational

Achievement (IEA) began to tackle the thorny problem of assessing educational

quality across the gulfs of nationality, language, and culture. The

undertaking, enormous in its complexity, produced the first installments of a

multinational data base on how the world's children are doing in mastering the

common languages of the emerging world economy: mathematics and the sciences.<p>



<p>



When the IEA conducted its most recent mathematics assessment, in 1981-1982,

the results were disheartening for Americans. In an eighth-grade match-up,

among twenty school systems surveyed, the American students ranked tenth in

arithmetic, twelfth in algebra, and sixteenth in geometry. Japan, our principal

economic competitor, finished first in all three of these categories. In an

intimation of the economic times that might lie ahead, Hungarian students

finished ahead of Americans in all three categories. Even Thailand, until

recently considered a Third World country rather than a member of the thriving

Pacific rim, saw its students finish ahead of the Americans in geometry.<p>



<p>



These international comparisons have attracted their share of critics. For

example, one point commonly made is that secondary education in the United

States is universal--that the system is open to all children, with 1988 figures

showing that 71 percent of those who begin high school go on to graduate--while

systems elsewhere are closed or elite, with a consequent creaming effect that

inflates test scores.<p>



<p>



The universality of American education is, in fact, a great potential strength.

Self-congratulation is not in order, however. Other nations, including Japan,

currently set the pace for universality. According to 1984 figures from the

U.S. Department of Education, 88 percent of Japanese students who began high

school went on to graduate. Moreover, in part because of a tendency to "track"

students into either academic or vocational channels, and in part because of

the unevenness of the curriculum in our peculiarly decentralized educational

network, the U.S. system winds up being inclusive without necessarily being

either egalitarian or first-rate. As one aspect of its 1981-1982 study, the IEA

identified twelfth-grade students from various countries who were engaged in

the serious study of mathematics, defined for the United States as those in

classes requiring as prerequisites at least two years of algebra and one year

of geometry. By such a definition a strikingly small proportion of the American

student body qualified for this part of the study. According to the IEA, a

serious mathematics education was provided to 50 percent of Hungarian students,

30 percent of students in British Columbia, 15 percent of Finnish students--but

only 13 percent of students in the United States.<p>



<p>



Defenders of the status quo also argue a contrary point: not that the United

States does well by its great mass of students but that our best students

achieve as much as any in the world. Quite apart from the irony of a

200-year-old democracy's arguing in terms of the performance of its elites, the

data give defenders shaky grounds for hope. Keeping in mind that the American

contingent in the IEA's comparison of serious twelfth-grade math students is

only 13 percent of the relevant U.S. age group, consider a representative

portion of the results for three subjects:<p>



<p>



Student Achievement by Subject Area<p>



<p>



(U.S. 12th-Grade Equivalent)<p>



<p>



 Advanced Algebra          Functions/Calculus             Geometry<p>



<p>



 1. Hong Kong                    1. Hong Kong                  1. Hong  Kong<p>



<p>



 2. Japan                           2. Japan                         2. Japan<p>



<p>



 3. Finland                      3. England/Wales           3. England/Wales<p>



<p>



 4. England/Wales            4. Finland                       4. Sweden<p>



<p>



 5. Flemish Belgium           5. Sweden                      5. Finland<p>



<p>



 6. Israel                           6. New Zealand               6. New

Zealand<p>



<p>



 7. Sweden                     7. Flemish Belgium        7. Flemish Belgium<p>



<p>



 8. Ontario                         8. Ontario                       8.

Scotland<p>



<p>



 9. New Zealand                 9. Israel                         9. Ontario<p>



<p>



 10. French Belgium         10. French Belgium        10. French Belgium<p>



<p>



 11. Scotland                     11. Scotland                   11. Israel<p>



<p>



 12. British Columbia        12. United States            12. United States<p>



<p>



 13. Hungary                     13. Thailand                  13. Hungary<p>



<p>



 14. United States              14. Hungary                14. British

Columbia<p>



<p>



 15. Thailand                    15. British Columbia      15. Thailand<p>



<p>



The students were tested in three other areas of mathematics as well. The

results were similar to those above, with the United States finishing below the

average across the board.<p>



<p>



In an alternative effort to measure the performance of elites, the IEA

calculated the average achievement score of the top one percent of the

twelfth-graders in each country. The United States came out as the lowest of

any country for which data were available. In other words, our most able

students scored lower in algebra than their top-notch peers in any other

country. The findings were little better in calculus, for which the same

analysis was conducted.<p>



<p>



The IEA did a science assessment in 1983-1986. Among ten-year-olds in fifteen

countries where tests were conducted, the Americans ranked eighth. Confirming

indications in other studies that American students fall further behind with

every passing year in school, our fourteen-year-olds were in a three-way tie,

with students from Singapore and Thailand, for fourteenth place among students

from seventeen countries. In yet another attempt to evaluate our elites, the

IEA surveyed the scores of a special group of secondary school pupils who could

be considered advanced science students: seniors pursuing a second year of

study within a particular discipline. In rankings with similar students from

twelve other nations, the Americans placed eleventh in chemistry, ninth in

physics, and last in biology.<p>



<p>



The association between American effort and American results is illuminated by

"Opportunity to Learn" studies, which seek to identify the material that has

actually been taught to various groups of students and the proportion of the

intended curriculum that the teacher has managed to cover. OTL researchers

focus on a practical question that puzzles parents and students all over

America: Why is it that no class ever seems capable of actually getting through

its textbook, or even coming close? Why is so much material covered in a rush,

in the closing weeks of the year? Granted, books are big in order to give

teachers a choice of lessons, but the sheer volume of material left uncovered

is disquieting. Accompanied by Chris Berner, a member of my staff, I was

recently "teacher for a day" in a seventh-grade class in Cambridge,

Massachusetts. It was the end of the school year. Students reported that they

had reached page 126 of a 400-page math text. They were halfway through the

social-studies book.<p>



<p>



The IEA's data on international math achievement become a little less

perplexing when analyzed in accord with OTL principles. OTL researchers asked

the students from each country who took part in the exercise, Had the

mathematics required to answer each question on the international exam been

taught to them at any time in class? The findings were fascinating. The typical

Japanese twelfth-grade student had been taught how to solve 92 percent of the

problems on the tests for algebra, geometry, and calculus. In England and Wales

the comparable figure was 85 percent, in Hungary 67 percent, in Thailand 63

percent--and in the United States only 54 percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



It seems, then, that students in other countries master more material largely

because they get further along in their courses. OTL analysis lends authority

to a conclusion that the lay person might reach as a matter of common sense:

imperfect as American education might be, forty or so more days of it a year

would mean more material covered and more material learned. The United States

faces a time-in-school deficit every bit as serious as the trade deficit and

the balance-of-payments problem: each year, American children receive hundreds

of hours less schooling than many of their European or Asian mates, and the

resulting harm promises to be cumulative and lasting.<p>



<p>



<p>



HUCK FINN'S LAW<p>



<p>



If the international data look bleak and OTL analysis points to a lack of

learning time as crucial, the question must be asked, Why, when our students do

so badly, do we continue to ask them to do so little?<p>



<p>



In 1988, looking back at the five years that had passed since the report *A

Nation At Risk* was issued, William Bennett remarked on the lack of progress:<p>



<p>



"*A Nation At Risk* also noted that it is not unusual for high school students

in other industrialized countries to spend eight hours a day at school, 220

days each year. In the United States, by contrast, a typical school day lasts

six hours, and the school year runs 175 to 180 days. *A Nation At Risk*

recommended that school districts and state legislatures consider increasing

instructional time by implementing a seven-hour school day and a 200- to

220-day school year, a recommendation that has been largely ignored.<p>



<p>



American teachers prefer their current nine- or ten-month contracts, and their

union leaders have opposed most legislative efforts to lengthen the school day

or year. Since 1983, such proposals have been considered in 37 states. But a

longer school year has been adopted in only nine of them--and all of those

states merely extended their unusually short calendars to the more common

180-day standard. Only five states have lengthened the school day--none to more

than six-and-a-half hours."<p>



<p>



Bennett's finger-pointing should extend to the average citizen. As the Gallup

numbers show, for years there has been weak public demand for more education,

"more" meaning greater amounts of time spent in the schools helping children to

learn. Once the public realizes the need for change and momentum builds, the

school year and the school day will be lengthened, regardless of which other

interests are opposed.<p>



<p>



The 1989 Gallup poll hints at the beginning of a turnaround in public

opinion--but only the beginning. Many parents would insist that their

reservations are immediate and practical. They see summer as special, as a time

for young people to be with their families, to do something that helps them

grow--even if it is only attending summer camp--or to earn some money. Push

these parents a little, and the objections become more emotional: kids need a

chance to play, darn it, and they're under a lot of pressure as it is. What

happened to the idyllic side of childhood? Is life to be all work? When will

there be time for young people to explore the quirky and personal magic of

their own creativity?<p>



<p>



These questions are hard, and those of us who believe in the necessity of more

schooling must not answer them glibly. But these questions are also rhetorical,

and loaded. They rely for their effect on an idealized image of childhood which

does not correspond to the down-to-earth, day-to-day summer experience of even

middle-class kids. A school environment can be humane and true to the curiosity

of children, and learning to read and write and compute and analyze is the key

to unlocking the creative urge, not squelching it. For that matter, extended

schooling can allow time not only for more instruction but also for more play.

And surely summer is special for many families. But a school year that

stretched into the last week of July would still leave more than a month for a

family vacation, a stint at camp, or both. If Americans could tolerate going to

school Saturday mornings, the break could start earlier.<p>



<p>



As it is, American kids have one of the longest summer vacations in the western

world. Like everything in life, this comes at a cost. For years educators have

devoted considerable effort to documenting a phenomenon that many parents know

from practical observation: the tendency of kids to forget during the summer

what they learned in the spring. In 1978 a study of retention conducted for the

New York Board of Regents reported, "Numerous research studies indicate that

long extended summer vacations result in forgetting much that was learned

during the regular school year....In order to start a new year effectively,

teachers in most elementary schools tend to devote four or more weeks [to]

review and reteaching activities."<p>



<p>



As for earning money, some students hold jobs because of genuine financial

need, and others because their parents believe that doing so builds character.

But many students work to maintain a level of conspicuous consumption that they

and their families would do well to avoid. In any event, given the evolving

world economy and the changing nature of employment, the financial stakes for

all these students figure to be the same: to be strapped for today or to be

strapped for life. Personal income correlates with education and one's position

in what is fast becoming a global economy; we must expect the time to come when

young people in Germany, Hungary, Japan, South Korea, and the United States

will compete more or less directly to do the same work, with the jobs going to

those who are best prepared to hold them. A nation intent on having its men and

women able to afford a decent standard of living will insist that adolescent

earnings be forgone today so that adult earnings are not lost tomorrow. The

stakes are very high. The urgent priority of young Americans today is to

learn.<p>



<p>



Public resistance to more education rides on a surface of practical objection

but draws its power from deeper sources: American mythology, defined as the

country's collection of ideas about itself; American complacency; and, of late,

American defensiveness. A subsidiary issue is the resistance of the American

educational establishment, both the theorists at the university level and the

ranks of unionized teachers at the elementary and secondary levels. Then comes

the question of money: how to finance a change that must bring with it more pay

for teachers, curriculum redesign, and capital improvements like

air-conditioning.<p>



<p>



A bit of educational history is in order. In many states school attendance was

not mandatory for much, if not most, of the nineteenth century. Many schools

operated almost in the fashion of public libraries: that is to say, they were

open for a great deal of the year but did not require local youths to be on the

premises. Children would drop in and out as family responsibilities and

personal inclinations dictated.<p>



<p>



In 1847 Horace Mann, an educational reformer serving the state of Massachusetts

as secretary of the Board of Education, in his annual report called for a

mandatory minimum period of school attendance by students. Five years later the

Massachusetts legislature enacted the nation's first compulsory-attendance law,

requiring parents to send their children to school for at least twelve weeks.<p>



<p>



Similar mandates were established throughout the country, but they could still

be outdone by truancy; the United States was one place where submission to the

regimentation of formal schooling was regarded with great ambivalence. Spending

time in a classroom was not easy to reconcile with an affection for personal

freedom and wide-open spaces, especially when the work involved abstruse

subjects like math and grammar. Huckleberry Finn said it pretty well:<p>



<p>



<p>



"Well, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter, now. I

had been to school most all the time, and could spell, and read, and write just

a little, and could say the multiplication table up to six times seven is

thirty-five, and I don't reckon I could ever get any further than that if I was

to live forever. I don't take no stock in mathematics, anyway.<p>



<p>



At first I hated the school, but by and by I got so I could stand it. Whenever

I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got next day done me

good and cheered me up."<p>



<p>



<p>



Call it Huck Finn's law: the authentic American flourishes in spite of

schooling, not because of it. Of course, the demands of modern industrial life

made inroads nevertheless. From 1890 to 1974 school enrollment among American

fourteen- to seventeen-year-olds--the children around Huck Finn's age--grew

from seven percent to 92 percent. In the same period the average length of the

school year in the United States increased from 135 days to 179, and the

average number of days of real attendance increased from 81 to 160.<p>



<p>



The short and thoroughly modern life of the 180-day school year undercuts the

theory that it survives from a time when the academic calendar followed the

agricultural cycle. Not even this degree of intention can be discerned.

Instead, the historical record gives evidence that the period of mandatory

school attendance increased steadily over time as it was shaped by two broad

influences: on the one hand, the always growing demand for an educated work

force, and on the other, the instinct to spare children from formal schooling

during the hottest months of the year, regardless of whether they had any role

to play in farming. Even if the agricultural theory fit the facts, it would not

explain very much. Other countries have agricultural pasts too, but this has

not stunted the growth of their educational calendars.<p>



<p>



It is true that the common public school spread rapidly in nineteenth-century

America. The ideal product, however, was not the academic high achiever but the

yeoman-citizen able to read and write well enough to be self-sufficient and to

express his own opinion. Learning in and of itself was not thought to be the

key to success; native ingenuity and self-directed hard work were. Richard

Hofstadter, in his *Anti-intellectualism in American Life*, outlined "the ideal

assumptions" of the case against getting a lot of education.<p>



<p>



<p>



"Intellectuals, it may be held, are pretentious, conceited, effeminate, and

snobbish; and very likely immoral, dangerous, and subversive. The plain sense

of the common man, especially if tested by success in some demanding line of

practical work, is an altogether adequate substitute for, if not actually much

superior to; formal knowledge and expertise acquired in the schools."<p>



<p>



Huck Finn's special dislike for mathematics is an American refrain picked up

more recently by social-science research. Harold Stevenson, of the University

of Michigan, has done pathbreaking work in comparing Japanese, Taiwanese, and

American attitudes toward learning and education. In 1987 he observed, <p>



<p>



<p>



"Americans generally do not consider mathematics as important as reading in

elementary school. According to our classroom observations, American teachers

spend more class time on reading (language arts) than on mathematics at both

first and fifth grades. Chinese and Japanese teachers, however, divide their

time more evenly between these two subjects....Despite the greater amount of

time devoted to language arts in the U.S. as compared to the Asian countries,

American mothers most frequently said that reading should be given more

emphasis in elementary school. Japanese mothers were nearly three times as

likely as American mothers to mention a need for greater emphasis on

mathematics."<p>



<p>



Even in the era of high tech, American mythology has adapted cleverly rather

than given way. According to Hofstadter, the American scientist singled out for

respect is the practical person who moves quickly to translate exotic research

into something commercially marketable. Thomas Edison and the electric light,

the Wright brothers and the airplane, Steven Jobs and the user-friendly

computer--it is the figure of the American inventor-entrepreneur, not the

American scientist-thinker, who nicely reconciles, in a technological age, our

drive for achievement with our mistrust of the bookworm and the nerd.<p>



<p>



The country's lukewarm feelings about academic high achievers, Hofstadter

argued, arose out of our democratic and egalitarian traditions. As the

nineteenth century drew to a close, this instinct to downplay intellectual

effort had to confront two powerful new forces, the theories of Darwin and of

Freud. Both lent authority to the idea that native predispositions, aptitudes,

and innate traits--including intellect--were critically important. In truth,

these theories seemed to say, people really are quite different from one

another. Divisive as the message might have been, Americans found a way to

reconcile it with egalitarianism A belief in innate traits and personal

aptitudes could be said, after all, merely to mimic the individualistic strain

in American culture. People might be different, and some might be stronger

intellectually than others, but who cared in a country where success could come

through grit and hard work?<p>



<p>



<p>



EFFORT VERSUS APTITUDE<p>



<p>



A line of reasoning that sought to minimize the importance of intellect while

accepting high-powered theories of intellectual differences was bound to break

down as education and academic achievement came to mean more and more in the

economy. In present-day American culture observers like Harold Stevenson and

Merry White, a professor of sociology at Boston University, see a terrible

inversion at work. Embracing the credo that every child is different, we make

early efforts to pinpoint differences in ability and interests. Then we channel

children into tracks according to what we think we have found. Thus a practice

rooted in the American celebration of the individual operates to subvert the

real-life chances of many American students.<p>



<p>



Stevenson, detecting an infatuation with ability grouping in his interviews

with parents and students, wrote,<p>



<p>



<p>



"Compared to the Asians we interviewed, Americans placed more emphasis on

differences in innate ability as the basis for variations in achievement.

American children, for example, were much more likely than Chinese or Japanese

children to agree with the statement, "The tests you take can show how much or

how little natural ability you have." Conversely, American children were least

likely to agree that "everybody in your class has the same amount of ability in

math."<p>



<p>



These beliefs are in line with those of their mothers. American mothers did not

agree that people have the same amount of ability in mathematics. When asked

about the role of effort, Chinese and Japanese mothers were more likely than

American mothers to believe that any student can be good at mathematics if he

or she works hard enough. American mothers also expressed stronger beliefs than

Chinese and Japanese mothers that their children were born with their math

abilities."<p>



<p>



<p>



If aptitude rather than effort is seen as the key to achievement, the result

will be to undermine the work ethic, at least as it applies to education. Time

spent in a classroom will not seem very important.<p>



<p>



As Stevenson indicates, among those who disagree with Americans on the relative

importance of effort are none other than the Japanese. Their culture puts

little stock in the notion of traits and aptitudes, placing paramount emphasis

instead on what White calls "the path of pure endeavor." Here is a Japanese

challenge more profound than economic competition. Granted, the Japanese have

the advantage of a homogeneous population, but they still deserve credit for

using the work ethic as a way around the politics of class. In stressing equal

opportunity based on effort--and, for that matter, in being unapologetic

boosters for effort itself--the Japanese threaten to embarrass us, by taking

aspects of the American creed and applying them with more conviction than we

do.<p>



<p>



Today in American culture hard work is good if it is done for oneself or one's

family, whether to meet one's own standards or to better oneself economically.

We put great stock in individual striving and individual freedom. But hard work

is not so good when it is done at the behest of others (except possibly in

wartime). No one gets easy points in this country for toeing the line, taking

orders, or going along with authority.<p>



<p>



It follows that there is a deeply ambivalent reaction--part of human nature but

exaggerated in the American character--to being told by elites to "work

harder." The situation is exacerbated because so many of today's parents grew

up in the 1960s, when anti-establishment values were at their zenith. Before

the 1960s came the Eisenhower era, condemned for excessive conformity, for the

oppressive sameness documented in William Whyte's *The Organization Man* and

David Riesman's *The Lonely Crowd*. In the Baby Boom generation's put-down of

present-day Japanese values there is an echo of the same generation's put-down

of the American 1950s.<p>



<p>



<p>



FAILING STUDENTS, CONTENTED PARENTS<p>



<p>



American mythology makes common cause with another formidable force: American

complacency. Harold Stevenson's work in 1979-1980 with children, mothers, and

teachers from three countries suggests the problem, by contrasting performance

and attitudes. In one statistical exercise he rated the mathematics achievement

of equal numbers of students from Japan, Taiwan, and the United States. Among

the top 100 first-graders there were only fifteen American children. Almost

unbelievably, among the top 100 fifth-graders there was only one American

child. In contrast, among the bottom 100 first-graders fifty-eight were

American, and among the bottom 100 fifth-graders sixty-seven were American.<p>



<p>



There was more. The shocker came in the attitude surveys. More than 40 percent

of the American mothers were "very satisfied" with how their children were

doing in school, whereas less than five percent of the Japanese and Chinese

mothers were "very satisfied." Nearly a third of the Chinese and Japanese

mothers said they were "not satisfied" with their children's performance, but

only 10 percent of the American mothers expressed dissatisfaction.<p>



<p>



The jarring enthusiasm of the Americans persisted when it came to attitudes

toward the quality of the schools themselves. Ninety-one percent judged that

the school was doing an "excellent" or a "good" job. Only 42 percent of the

Chinese mothers and 39 percent of the Japanese mothers were this positive.<p>



<p>



Stevenson's paradox--low measures of student performance and high measures of

parental satisfaction--prompted him to utter a despairing thought:<p>



<p>



<p>



"Given these findings, one wonders how practical it is to push now for

educational reform in the United States. Schools can only respond to the needs

expressed by the parents and citizens who provide their financial support.

There is little indication in these data that large numbers of American parents

find sufficient basis for dissatisfaction to alter their attitudes toward

American education."<p>



<p>



<p>



HAPPY IN THEIR WORK	<p>



<p>



The good news in 1990 is that American complacency is giving way; these days

everybody talks about the hardworking Asians and the buoyant Europeans. The bad

news is that the newest emotions are American discouragement, defensiveness,

and paranoia. Polling in<p>



1989 showed nearly half the public in this country subscribing to the notion

that the United States is in "decline." But that doesn't mean we admire the

competition. Rather than acknowledging that Americans put out less effort than

do students in a multitude of other countries, we define the issue narrowly, as

a choice between our values and those of our strongest competitor, Japan.

Having set up the straw man, we then bridle at the thought of "becoming

Japanese," shorthand for our fear of being dragooned into conformity and

workaholism, all in the name of meeting stiff economic competition.<p>



<p>



Instead of examining Japanese culture, rejecting many of its features but

accepting others in order to improve our own, we Americans focus on claims that

the Japanese are imitators, not creators; that they pirate our technology; and

that they cheat to gain advantage in international trade. These impressions are

used time and time again to disparage proposals to extend the school year. All

you ever get by doing that, people argue, is a pocketful of misery, in terms of

uncreative children and diminishing interest in classwork.<p>



<p>



Such defensiveness misses the mark, and should be forsworn so that we might

indulge instead an American habit. After all, we are energetic imitators of the

good ideas of others, born appropriators of bits and pieces of Old World

practice, great borrowers from the different cultures that have shaped our

immigrants. In 1810-1812 did not Francis Cabot Lowell, of Massachusetts, give

himself a grand tour of textile plants in the British Isles, memorize the

design of the great power looms in order to outwit English laws against

technology transfer, and return home to establish the first modern factory in

America? Robert Dalzell, Jr., a historian at Williams College, writes that

Lowell's feat is viewed as a "stunning act of industrial piracy." We Americans

take pride in our pragmatism, our flexibility; no fixed principle is more

important to us than the principle that nothing is fixed. If there are things

dogged and determined in Japanese attitudes that we admire, if there are

features of their educational system that seem to work--even if there are few

points to be gleaned about equal opportunity--we should be shamelessly American

and adapt them for ourselves.<p>



<p>



In any event, dwelling on the negative cannot carry us very far. Our

understanding of the way the Japanese live is growing more sophisticated all

the time, and some of the self-serving truisms of today are not likely to hold

up very well. One staple of conversation among American parents is the supposed

association between the rigors of Japanese education and suicide among Japanese

youths. The figures were once more troubling than they are today. According to

a report by the U.S. Department of Education, in 1975 the suicide rates in

Japan for the age groups ten to fourteen, fifteen to nineteen, and twenty to

twenty-four were all higher than the U.S. rates. But by 1984 the Japanese

numbers for the three age groups had gone down and the American numbers had

more or less held steady, with the result that the American suicide rates were

higher for all three age groups.<p>



<p>



Japanese students do seem to be under considerable pressure to excel, but they

do not seem especially unhappy, at least in the early elementary grades. Merry

White, in her short and useful book *The Japanese Educational Challenge: A

Commitment to Children*, wrote,<p>



<p>



<p>



"Because of our preconceptions of Japanese schooling, a walk into a typical

fifth grade classroom in Japan may shock us. We might easily expect an

environment suffused with rote learning and memorization, a structured and

disciplined setting with an authoritarian teacher in control. This is far from

the reality of most classrooms. Walking into a fifth grade math classroom, I

was at first surprised: the mood was distinctly chaotic, with children calling

out, moving spontaneously from their desks to huddled groups chatting and

gesticulating. An American teacher would wonder "Who's in charge here?" and

would be surprised to see the teacher at the side of the room, calmly checking

papers or talking with some students. When I came to understand what all this

meant, I realized that the noise and seeming chaos was in fact devoted to the

work of the class: children were shouting out ideas for possible answers,

suggesting methods, exclaiming excitedly over a solution, and not, as we might

suppose, gossiping, teasing each other, or planning something for recess or

after school. The teacher was not at all upset as long as total engagement in

the appointed set of tasks persisted; she actually felt that the noise level

was a measure of her success in inspiring the children to focus and work."<p>



<p>



<p>



At its national convention last July the American Federation of Teachers

criticized "treadmill schedules" that set out to cover the curriculum at all

costs and do not provide teachers or students with adequate time for such

things as reflection and planning. The proposed solution implied a reduction in

teaching time. A far better one is suggested by the work of James Stigler and

Ruth Baranes, observers of Japanese, Taiwanese, and American classrooms. Their

research points to one of the contributions to quality made possible by a

quantitative improvement in the school year: the pace at any given moment can

allow for leisurely teaching and leisurely learning. Only teachers in Japan,

they reported, were ever observed spending an entire forty-minute math lesson

on one or two problems. In fact, their analysis revealed that the typical

Japanese math lesson was less hectic than the American. "Japanese teachers,"

they wrote, "seem not to rush through material, but rather are constantly

pausing to discuss and explain."<p>



<p>



This is not to say that at the high school level the pace is relaxed. While the

payoff for hard work is great in terms of student achievement, the side effects

generate controversy and soul-searching among the Japanese public. Recently a

fifteen-year-old girl died when she rushed to get into school just at starting

time and a teacher, intent on locking out late students, slammed a heavy metal

school gate on her head. The resulting uproar, which focused on the enforcement

of rigid rules and discipline, suggests two general truths about education in

present-day Japan: first, things are very far from perfect, and second, the

system is not unyielding but subject to pressure and criticism--and presumably

improvement as well.<p>



<p>



American efforts to debunk the achievement orientation of the Japanese always

seem to overreach. After all, Americans have taken considerable satisfaction in

their own culture's work ethic. Any present-day rationalizations that, in

effect, concede the willingness of the Japanese to outwork Americans probably

concede more than this society can afford. The current stage of anxious

anticipation is still an early one. In not so many more years, if things do not

change, the evidence of Asian and possibly European superiority, first in

economic productivity and then in standard of living, will be overwhelming. The

creed of American exceptionalism is powerful and volatile; it is an open

question whether this society can exist successfully with the conviction that

it is second-rate. If the price of avoiding psychological dislocation later is

to adjust the culture now in order to make more room for academic achievement,

the price would seem to be well worth paying.<p>



<p>



James Fallows, the Washington editor of *The Atlantic*, argues that American

defensiveness is wasted motion. Fallows contends that the world can become

multi-polar, and can have many thriving economies. The United States need not

be unilaterally dominant in order for American culture to work. Neither must we

be slavish in our imitation of the Japanese. Presumably Americans will perform

best in an environment that stresses openness and freedom, as opposed to the

conformity bred by the Japanese system. In other words, we can, to echo the

title of Fallows's recent book, succeed by becoming "more like us." But we do

have to succeed. The bottom line for learning and working had better be the

same: more or less equivalent effort leading to more or less equivalent

results.<p>



<p>



<p>



QUALITY VERSUS QUANTITY<p>



<p>



Get past the quicksand of American mythology, American complacency, and

American defensiveness, and the argument for extending the school year comes up

against the educational establishment. One group of professionals has created a

large and complicated body of literature, riven with statistical analysis, on

the question of "time and learning." Two of the premises are unassailable.

First, additional time by itself does not guarantee successful learning. More

is not necessarily better, because other factors come into play, ranging from

the quality of the teacher to the quality of the textbooks to the health of the

student. Second, time is a commodity that comes in different sizes. The length

of the school year; the length of the school week, the length of the school

day, the number of minutes diverted to "classroom management" and lost to

instruction, the number of minutes allocated to a particular subject, the

amount of homework, the rate of pupil attendance and absenteeism--these blocks

of time interrelate, and the importance of any one of them cannot be analyzed

without considering its impact on the others.<p>



<p>



Generally speaking, these theorists are not interested in the larger,

garden-variety units of time such as the school year, the school week, or the

school day. They prefer to deal with the smaller units, rearranged according to

concepts of their own devising: "time on task," "engaged time," and "academic

learning time." Nancy Karweit, of the Johns Hopkins University, does work that

is representative of the group. In one article she presented a graph, based on

her observation of twelve classrooms, to contrast what she termed "scheduled

time," "instructional time," and "engaged time" in math class. Scheduled time

was the number of minutes in a week that a teacher allotted for math

instruction. Instructional time was the time left in scheduled time after

classroom-management time and interruptions were deducted. Engaged time was the

time left in instructional time after student inattention was deducted.<p>



<p>



Karweit's aim was to take the official class period of forty-five or so minutes

and, after close observation and careful counting, lop off all the minutes that

were not used well. Her eye is on the micro-management of the educational

experience. The focus is on using scheduled class time more effectively,

shortening the transitions between tasks, minimizing distractions to learning,

increasing the proportion of the class period in which the teacher is actively

engaged with students, and increasing the quality and appropriateness of

instruction. The length of the school year, in contrast, is what she calls a

"global time measure." Whether to increase it is a question that might interest

the generalist, but for her it is simply too big a clump of time to matter; too

many other factors intervene to affect learning.<p>



<p>



Time-and-learning theory finds a statistical relationship between the amount

learned, as measured by achievement-test scores, and the time spent learning,

but it is not a strong one. The reason is that so much else affects the

student. Herbert Walberg, of the University of Illinois, has surveyed the

literature to identify, in all, nine "educational productivity factors." Three

have to do with personal characteristics: ability, chronological development,

and motivation. Four have to do with psychological environments: home life, the

classroom social group, the general peer culture, and television viewing. Only

two have to do explicitly with instruction: the quality of teaching, ranging

from the curriculum to the individual teacher's method, and, finally, the

amount of time students are engaged in learning.<p>



<p>



The Walberg list suggests that those who oppose a longer school year because

they favor "quality" over "quantity" draw a misplaced contrast. Seven of

Walberg's nine factors involve neither the quality nor the quantity of

education but other considerations altogether. What is significant is that with

the exception of lengthening the school year or school day, both of which can

be done for thousands of students at a time, these productivity factors defy

easy improvement by interested human beings. For masses of people across the

entire society, personal qualities, psychological environments, and the quality

of teaching will be slow to change.<p>



<p>



The educational theorists concede as much; the prevailing mood in their ranks

is either outright pessimism or a cautious allowance that things might improve

at the margins. While they are quick to criticize proposals for change, they

hesitate to put forward concrete alternatives of their own. For all the seeming

precision gained by measuring learning in relation to engaged time rather than

the raw number of days in the school year, these researchers are quite vague

about how much to increase engaged time per day or per week. "How long can

teachers be expected to productively interact with their students?" Karweit

wonders. "How long can students be expected to be on-task?" Summarizing the

current state of the literature for the Consortium on Educational Policy

Studies at Indiana University, three researchers wrote, "Increased

instructional time does have modest effects on student achievement;

unfortunately, research is inconclusive on the most effective and practical

ways to increase time."<p>



<p>



There is a hidden irony, in any event, in the efforts of Karweit and others to

boost "quality time" in the classroom. At first, those who speak of quality

rather than quantity will always claim the higher moral ground. But the casual

observer of American education comes away with the impression that past a

certain point, gains in learning per hour will always be elusive--slipping and

sliding in every school system with changes in teachers, administrators,

teaching techniques, theories of learning, curriculum additions, and who knows

what else. By its very nature, teaching is an extraordinarily decentralized

human activity dependent on the personality of the teacher, the personalities

of the students, and the chemistry among them. Trying to get the teacher and

the students to bridge the gap between Japan and the United States by stepping

up learning per hour--as the time-and-learning theorists do--is a great deal

more daunting than creating a longer school year in which to cover more of the

curriculum. Images come to mind of forced feeding and assembly-line

speed-ups.<p>



<p>



Unfortunately, these same theorists go out of their way to criticize proposals

to extend the school year. Their major insight, as noted, is that playing with

big variables like the school year won't help much if little things go wrong.

For example, increasing the school year will do no good if all the additional

time is lost to absenteeism. Points like these seem so self-evident as not to

merit much repeating, but in the professional literature they appear all the

time, slightly dressed up in academic verbiage.<p>



<p>



In their current roles time-and-learning theorists are not much help; they

stifle the political debate over education in this country. Every unit of

learning time that they regard as important just happens to be a micro-measure

too esoteric for convenient public discussion. Conversely, every unit of time

that the public can talk about, think about, or do anything about is disparaged

as a source of false hope. This is anti-democratic and elitist, and eventually

self-defeating even for the social scientists. Educational improvements in a

democracy need a mobilized constituency. Parents will not march to the town

hall under the banner of increasing engaged time. They will not yet march under

the banner of increasing the school year, either. But at least they can

understand the idea without a course in statistics, and can take part in the

debate--elementary, perhaps, but the first step toward change.<p>



<p>



Nonetheless, the micro-theorists have something to contribute to the debate

about how to improve education. Engaged time is a useful idea; nobody can argue

with teacher-training efforts that focus on productivity within the classroom

and the reduction of distractions and interruptions. For that matter, big and

important debates about American education can continue within the context of a

longer school year as well. Questions about curriculum, class size, teacher

autonomy, school-based management, competency testing, dropout prevention,

minority isolation, student services and counseling--there is much to preoccupy

us. A longer school year, while hardly sufficient in itself to reclaim quality

in American education, is a superstructure under which other changes can be

made. A school year of, say, 220 days will serve as a big tent. A number of

things may go into the tent to make it a better place; to accommodate them all

and to arrange them in proper order requires the space the tent provides.<p>



<p>



The micro-theorists mount a highly technical assault on the longer school year.

Many others within the educational establishment attack on grounds broader and

more general, although not so closely reasoned. The arguments of these writers

and thinkers vary but in the end boil down to the familiar preference for

quality rather than quantity. In fact their stock in trade is not quality but

complexity; they view the problem of American education as so knotty, with

contributing factors so numerous and solutions so uncertain, that it can never

be solved, only written about. These professionals seem incapable of coming up

with a short list of concrete priorities for reform, let alone of describing

how to get from the present to the future along the highly political road that

reform must travel. Undoubtedly a host of influences, some of them subtle

matters of culture, are at work when American kids do poorly and other kids do

well. But we are not likely soon to banish the problems that are too numerous,

and neither are we likely to banish those that are too subtle. Equalizing the

time we commit to learning is the way that we will begin to come back. In

lamenting that it is all very complicated, the professionals do nothing to

advance the argument for dramatic change; in practical, political terms, they

advance the argument for little change, or no change at all.<p>



<p>



Lester Thurow, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has lost patience

with all the foot-dragging. In 1985 he wrote,<p>



<p>



<p>



"The standard American response to proposals for a longer school year is to

argue that Americans should learn to more efficiently use the current 180 days

before they worry about adding more days. Such a response is to get the whole

problem backwards. Instead of starting with what is easy to do--work longer and

harder--Americans start with what is very difficult to do--work smarter. The

argument is also a form of implicit American arrogance. Americans think that

they can learn in 180 days what the rest of the world takes 220 to 240 days to

learn. It also forgets that the rest of the world is trying to use its 220 or

240 days more efficiently."<p>



<p>



THE MATTER OF LEADERSHIP<p>



<p>



What, then, is to be done? As the debate over lengthening the school year is

joined, how is public apprehension to be overcome, a public consensus to be

formed?<p>



<p>



First, there is the matter of leadership. Recall that in the late 1950s, after

Sputnik, Americans did not balk at being challenged to run a race with the

Soviets for world scientific supremacy. In fact, this nation has always reacted

well to competitions summed up in muscular imagery by our leaders: Americans

run races, go for the gold, vie for championships, all with admirable zest.<p>



<p>



But these days the message of civic, political, and intellectual leaders is

different. The tone is unrelentingly dour. Americans are not dared to run a

race; they are told that the race has already been run, the United States has

lost, and they are to blame--because they did not "work harder." Both the

political right and the political left have generated cottage industries

centered on the person of the scold, the critic, the moralist. These

entrepreneurs of gloom engender a very mixed reaction, because people are

ambivalent about being lectured to. When Roger Porter, a Presidential aide for

economic and domestic policy, labels American education "depressing and

uninspiring," dismay at our prospects dampens our appetite for meeting the

challenge. The end-of-the-American-century, fall-of-a-great-power talk has gone

too far.<p>



<p>



Where education is concerned, the Gallup polls tell us that people are now open

to a message of change. Complacency is no longer holding us back. But the tone

of the message must be optimistic, and resonant with the American themes that

lend themselves to the task of mobilizing for change--specifically, the notions

that we have always risen to the challenge of competition, felt free to adapt

the good ideas of others, worked like demons when the prize was

self-improvement, and had a special knack for exploiting the practical fruits

of learning.<p>



<p>



Americans are up to the game of international educational competition, but we

need to know what the rules are. When the rest of the world plays a

twenty-minute period, American students cannot be expected to rack up as many

points in fifteen. Our toughest competitors are, in fact, playing a school year

of 220 days or so, with results that bode poorly for America's future. It is up

to this country's leaders to get the word out, in a way that inspires rather

than dispirits their audiences.<p>



<p>



Once these leaders make the effort, they will find that many people are way

ahead of them, and not only because of concern about international competition.

An entirely different dynamic is also at work, one that promises to tip popular

opinion further in favor of more schooling. Aspects of it were detected by the

1988 Gallup poll on education, in response to the question "Would you favor or

oppose the local public schools' offering before-school and after-school

programs where needed for so-called latch-key children, that is, those whose

parents do not return home until late in the day?"<p>



<p>



To those familiar with public resistance to extending the school year and

school day, the response was stunning. Seventy percent of the sample were in

favor, 23 percent opposed--a spread repeated when Gallup asked the question, in

slightly different form, last year.<p>



<p>



The forces at work here are formidable. More than 25 million women in the

United States have children under the age of thirteen, and most of those women

work at least part-time. Latchkey children. who spend some part of the working

day at home without adult supervision, arouse particular concern. A 1987 Harris

survey indicates that 12 percent of elementary, 30 percent of middle school,

and 38 percent of high school students are left to care for themselves after

school "almost every day."<p>



<p>



In the seventh-grade class I taught for a day, the majority of the students

lived in housing projects. They were not averse to the idea of a longer school

year. Instead, they volunteered that kids would be kept off the streets, that

now they were "spoiled" by too much TV and too much Nintendo, and that there

was nothing to do over the long summer vacation. The students also had

suggestions about what a longer school year might include: more sports, more

time to study, and more opportunity to take courses in subjects that interested

them.<p>



<p>



The issue here extends beyond latchkey children to touch all manner of

middle-class, working-class, and poor families. Many parents who cover all the

bases for their children are doing so just barely, and at a cost in terms of

missed wages that they cannot sustain forever. All told, an enormous potential

constituency exists for a longer school day, folded into a longer school

year.<p>



<p>



THE VISION OF JUSTICE BRANDEIS<p>



<p>



The complaint will be heard that a school cannot be all things to all

people--cannot be place of education, health-care clinic, settlement house, and

neighborhood-recreation center rolled into one. The pragmatic response is that

a school must in fact be all these things.<p>



<p>



In most communities the best facility for accommodating large numbers of

children is the school building. The best adults to be with these children are

teachers, and the best way to structure the hours involved is through a

curriculum that permits ample time for physical exercise, creative activity,

and play, as well as learning. Almost nothing else--neither healthy civic

institutions nor trained personnel--is available to the children, either at the

end of the abbreviated school day or at the end of the abbreviated school

year.<p>



<p>



Despite the size of the potential popular constituency, a big problem remains.

Teachers tend to be opposed to an extension of the school day and school year.

Most prefer their summer vacations But significant increases in pay are also

very important to this financially pressed group. Teachers must recognize that

the school-year and school-day issues are the levers they have been looking

for; better pay and big extensions of school time go hand in hand.<p>



<p>



Which leads to the subject of how, in this complicated country, the transition

to a world-class school year can be made, and how members of the public, many

of them not parents, can be induced to pay the costs.<p>



<p>



Matters already discussed are crucial. Leaders must emerge among parents,

educators, civic activists, and politicians. The issue must be thrust into the

public domain, the international data disseminated, the economic stakes made

clear. Bills must be introduced at the state level (I am sponsoring one in

Massachusetts) to increase the minimum length of the school year. As obvious as

this step is, it raises a question of fairness that dogs reform in the American

system.<p>



<p>



In the 1830s and 1840s Horace Mann struggled to rescue the floundering American

school system and persuade a divided public of the need to educate children

more thoroughly. As secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Education, Mann

firmly staked out a position against maximum local control of the schools--an

undertaking as controversial then as it is now. He undercut hiring prerogatives

by proposing statewide standards for teachers, and infringed on

curriculum-setting power by pushing for uniformity in textbooks. His influence

soon extended across the country. Various state legislatures stepped up the

pace of educational reform, passing laws whose effects were to increase

drastically the number of children in school, the length of time they spent

there, and the cost and quality of the instruction they received.<p>



<p>



Here came a dose of messy politics: These same legislatures declined to assume

the cost of funding these good acts. Instead, the new laws took the form of

state-imposed mandates on municipalities, to be paid for out of property taxes.

Legislatures had the right to do this because then, as now, state constitutions

placed local communities under the power of state governments.<p>



<p>



Mandates made people upset. One hundred and fifty years later they still do.

When the state dictates to the city and town, critics object either that the

content of the mandate is bad or that the content is fine but the dictator

should foot the bill. The mandating power, these critics say, makes

accountability impossible, places a financial burden on the lower governments,

and offends the unwritten but powerful tradition of home rule.<p>



<p>



True enough, but mandates have an overriding virtue: awkward in principle, they

work in practice. Systems of government must somehow sort out responsibilities.

In the American system the sorting out gets done by the U.S. Constitution and

the constitutions of the various states, as interpreted by the courts, and by

the U.S. Congress and the state legislatures. From the start, the public

schools have been left to local communities to run--but the ground rules have

been written elsewhere, and they have changed as the country and world have

changed.<p>



<p>



Those who insist that states fully fund their education mandates would lead us

into the political bog, and soon be stuck themselves. Legislatures and Congress

might respond by declining to set higher standards, which would be disastrous.

More likely, these bodies would set the standards, assume the costs--and then

extend their influence even further, into day-to-day policy-making, which

should be left to local people. Full funding would have the effect, ironic for

the locals who demanded it, of leading inexorably to more state encroachment

and oversight. It is an axiom of political finance, and probably of human

nature: If you pay for it, you will want to run it. It follows that if a

healthy measure of control over schools is to remain at home, local officials

must live with mandates, and without insisting on full funding.<p>



<p>



One is able, then, to lay one's hands on a blunt but historically effective

tool of change: the mandate. One can envision the pattern of change, true to

federalism and the maxim of Louis Brandeis: a leapfrog trail from one state to

the next, as each works out the problems of persuasion, politics, and finance.

One can describe several elements of change. A longer school year should be

phased in over some period, because time will be needed to plan, and because

local governments cannot tax their citizens into penury, even when mandated to

do so. Stepped-up revenue-sharing should come from state legislatures, because

while full funding of the mandate is neither possible nor desirable, a generous

partnership is.<p>



<p>



And one must insist upon some help from the federal government. The Chief

Executive of the United States must be asked to be the education President he

says he wants to be, and to sponsor and sign into law a program of federal aid

to school districts as they switch to a longer year. The federal government's

tax base is broad enough to help finance the expansion of the school year.

Nothing is more critical to national security in the post-Cold War era than

schooling our children, yet education's share of the federal budget in fiscal

year 1990 was an abysmal 1.9 percent. The issue here is priorities, not

capabilities. The question, as the old saw goes, is not whether we can afford

to do it but whether we can afford not to.<p>



<p>



While a broad-based movement builds, more immediate levers of change present

themselves. If civic or political leaders are determined to see a 220-day

school year in their state by the year 2000, they might begin by raising

private-sector and public-sector matching funds to extend the year for ten or

so medium-sized districts, spread among the poor, the middle-class, and the

well-to-do. And if this arrangement does not work, a handful of affluent

districts can take the plunge on their own, using their taxing power and their

long-standing prerogative to go beyond state minimums in setting the local

school year. This would be financially feasible in the short term and

politically formidable in the long term. In my own state of Massachusetts, what

Lexington does today, Concord will feel impelled to do in relatively short

order.<p>



<p>



Some will hesitate, in the well-intentioned belief that the school year should

not change for any district until it changes for all. But, as a matter of

tactics, this is not shrewd. The issue is not whether all schools change to 220

days; the issue is whether no schools whatsoever change, depriving us of the

chance to get the process started. Once the trend begins in earnest, the courts

or the legislatures will come under mounting pressure to do the right thing by

poorer communities. In the past two years the supreme courts of New Jersey,

Kentucky, Texas, and Montana have handed down landmark decisions on inequities

in the financing of rich and poor school districts. If the aim is social

justice, it becomes important to set a longer school year as the standard of

record, even for a handful of wealthier districts, so that poorer districts can

then be brought up to par.<p>



<p>



Find a way to begin the process, and watch it build on itself. Who will abide

having his children receive forty fewer days of education every year than the

kids in the next town over? For that matter, who will abide, for much longer,

having her children receive less education than the kids in the country the

next continent over? The world is shrinking. Change is inevitable It is only a

matter of time. <p>

	

</blockquote>



<hr>



<pre></pre>

<nobr>





<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>



<a href="../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>



<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">

<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>



</nobr>



<p>

<font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1990, Michael Barrett.  All rights

reserved. 

<br>

The Atlantic Monthly; November 1990; The Case for More School Days; Volume 

266, No. 5;

page(s) 78-106

</font>





</BODY>

</HTML>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-41</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B045-132</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/poverty/whitmaf.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117201320 text/html 24685
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:12:47 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:04:30 GMT
Content-length: 24479
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html><head><!-- This document was created from RTF source by rtftohtml version

2.7.5 --><title>The Key to Welfare Reform</title></head><body bgcolor=ffffff><p>



<p>

<a name="top">	<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->

<center>





			<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->

		<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">

<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">

</a>





</center>





<p>



<font size=4>June 1987</font><p>



<p><!--TITLE-->



<h1>



<center>





The Key to Welfare Reform</center></h1> <p>



<p>



 <p><center><font size=4>by David Whitman</font></center>

<p><img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" vspace=10><p>



<p>



<blockquote><i><font size=4>Recent history shows that getting long-term recipients off the rolls is the

only way to reduce public-assistance costs</i></font><p>



<p>



<p><br><p><br>



<font size=5>W</font><font size=3>elfare is bad for you--on that proposition liberals and conservatives now seem

to agree.  President Ronald Reagan and Senator Edward Kennedy have both

recently advanced proposals to cut the relief rolls, and Senator Daniel Patrick

Moynihan sees "one of those rare alignments that bring about genuine social

change" in this new bipartisan consensus.  Yet while the Hundredth Congress may

well pass legislation affecting welfare, it's unlikely that any reform bill

will do much to move welfare recipients from the rolls to the payroll.  A look

at the history of two key welfare reforms of the Reagan years--the

welfare-eligibility restrictions of the 1981 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act

(OBRA) and the creation of the Job Training Partnership Act in 1982--shows why

the current proposals may promise more than they can deliver.  Both of those

reforms also seemed surefire ways to slash the welfare rolls, yet each ended up

having little or no practical effect.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Today the relief rolls stand at near record levels despite six years of

the Reagan presidency.  Some 11 million Americans currently receive payments

from Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main cash-assistance program

available to the non-elderly.  Roughly 3.7 million families were on the rolls

in 1986, near the 1981 all-time high of 3.9 million.  Nor was the high number

of welfare families last year unusual during the Reagan Administration.  More

families have been on AFDC in each of the past four years than at any previous

time, with the exception of 1981.  Correspondingly, federal expenditures on

AFDC have edged upward, from $7.8 billion in fiscal year 1982 to $9 billion in

fiscal year 1985.  After adjustments for inflation, that amounts to a rise of

three percent.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Those numbers don't square with the conventional wisdom about Reagan's

cold-blooded budget cuts.  In fact most of the President's domestic-program

curtailments took place during his first year in office; since then few people

have bothered to study their impact.  Reagan's OBRA cutbacks are a case in

point.  Democrats widely denounced them at the outset--yet recent,

little-noticed assessments of the regulations' effects indicate that the gloomy

prognostications have not come true.<p>



<p>



<p>



     At first the toughened eligibility guidelines appeared to make a real dent

in welfare dependency.  Generally, they reduced the amount of earned income

that could be disregarded in determining AFDC benefits, thereby removing

several hundred thousand "working poor" families from the welfare rolls.  The

General Accounting Office estimated that 442,000 families were cut off AFDC by

mid-1984 because of the new rules.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Yet the welfare rolls started rising in 1983, and no one was quite sure

why.  Unemployment was high, but increases in unemployment have not been

closely linked to AFDC caseload growth during the past two decades.  The

persistence, moreover, of bloated welfare rolls in 1984 and 1985--years when

the economy was booming and an unprecedented number of jobs were

created--subsequently cast further doubt on the unemployment hypothesis.

Divorce, which often pushes women and their children onto relief, remained

level, and illegitimacy did not climb more rapidly than it had in previous

years.<p>



<p>



<p>



     One possible explanation for the recent increase in dependency is that the

Administration's rule changes, which made it harder to mix welfare and work,

ultimately enticed mothers with low-paying jobs to go back on welfare.  A

recent analysis by Robert Moffitt, of Brown University concludes that women who

were combining work and welfare stayed on the job after losing their benefits

because of inertia--until a crisis hit.  Then, once, say, a child became

ill--an emergency that Medicaid typically covers if the mother is on AFDC--the

mother reduced her working hours to restore her AFDC eligibility.  Since crises

of this sort occur only every now and then, Moffitt suggests, the

dependency-inducing effect of the OBRA restrictions was delayed.<p>



<p>



<p>



     An equally critical and perhaps more disturbing shortcoming of the 1981

reforms is that they have failed even in the short term to curb the dependency

of the hard-core welfare mothers--the women who stay on AFDC for a decade or

more at a time.  These chronic recipients have become the real source of public

concern about welfare in recent years, and rightly so.  "There is a

difference," as Senator Moynihan puts it, "between people who have some trouble

come into their lives and those whose whole lives are in trouble."  Few

taxpayers are outraged by a mother who goes on welfare for eight months because

she's been deserted by her husband or laid off.  Many do object, however, to

women whose kids grow up seeing that it isn't necessary to work for a living

(or that it's necessary only rarely).  Two million children, most of whom are

black, now live in families that have survived on welfare checks for a decade

or more.<p>



<p>



<p>



     It is extremely difficult, it turns out, to reduce the welfare budget

without getting these chronic users off the rolls.  "Any program which fails to

help the long-term recipients cannot possibly save much welfare money," says

David Ellwood, of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.  Whereas

chronic recipients currently make up only a quarter of those who use AFDC, they

consume at least 60 percent of its budget.  That's because as the short-termers

go on and off the rolls over a period of years, the chronic recipients remain.

Thus, at any one time long-term dependents actually constitute the majority of

welfare recipients.  Getting someone off the dole, in short, is not the crux of

the problem--whom you get off is.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Unfortunately, OBRA cut off the wrong families.  According to a 1984 study

by The Urban Institute, it removed from the welfare rolls "those at and near

the margin--those most likely to leave anyway...Leaving behind a relatively

'hard core' group of recipients."  A 1986 study by Vicky Albert and Michael

Wiseman, of the University of California at Berkeley, found a marked

lengthening of stays on AFDC in California.  "OBRA effects appear to have been

perverse," the authors conclude.  "Because of OBRA, the state has been left

with a more expensive and, in the long run, more dependent caseload."

Ironically, President Reagan defended the cutbacks by saying that they were

restricted to better-off recipients, leaving the "truly needy" unharmed in the

social safety net.  In fact the cutbacks primarily punished a small number of

the most industrious welfare mothers.  Left unaffected were those whom critics

of welfare have always derided as "welfare deadbeats"--the able-bodied women

who bear illegitimate children, drop out of high school, and live off relief

checks for years at a time.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



     Just as the Administration's rewrite of the public-assistance rule book

has failed to curb dependency, its efforts to reform work and training programs

for welfare mothers have done little to get welfare mothers working.  Work

programs have never reached more than a small percentage of welfare

recipients--and they appear today to be reaching even fewer families than they

did when Reagan entered office.  And though some small programs seem

spectacularly successful--for example, the Reagan Administration's Job Training

Partnership Act--much of that record turns out to be little more than

statistical sleight-of-hand.<p>



<p>



<p>



     To date, Administration officials have essentially pursued two approaches

to reforming job programs.  They sought first to correct the abuses of previous

job-training programs;  then they created their own program to try to show how

it should be done.  Correcting perceived abuses led to eliminating funding for

the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA)--which had a reputation

for sloppy administration and placed participants in temporary public-service

jobs, instead of moving them into permanent private positions.  Overall,

funding for work and training programs was cut 50 percent in real dollars from

1981 to 1986.  The main program of job training and placement for welfare

recipients--the Work Incentive Program, known as WIN--was reduced even more

sharply, from $365 million in 1981 to $110 million in 1987.  Nationwide the

number of welfare recipients trained for jobs is minuscule:  it is estimated

that WIN moved 130,000 people off welfare in 1985, or about one percent of

those on AFDC.  Similarly, the much-touted, proliferating "workfare" programs,

which require recipients to work off their welfare benefits in community jobs,

are believed to cover about one percent of AFDC recipients.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Besides cutting back, the President sought to make job programs more

efficient--WIN recipients should be hustled into jobs, instead of taking

college courses that taxpayers' money pays for;  welfare mothers should be

induced to read want ads and look for a job, instead of simply sending in an

application to city hall and calling it quits.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The no-frills solution developed by the Administration was the Job

Training Partnership Act (JTPA), which established a program emphasizing quick

placement in the private sector by teaching enrollees job-search techniques and

offering them short-term training.  Although the program is open to the members

of various disadvantaged groups, it is clearly meant to reach AFDC mothers,

since "reductions in welfare dependency" are a statutory goal of the program.

Since the program began, in 1983, it has placed 61 percent of its participants

in jobs, and the President has proudly boasted that it has "the highest

job-placement record of any of the employment programs the government has ever

tried."  He's right--even though, paradoxically, the program is probably a

waste of resources.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The hitch is that the Reagan Administration has never evaluated how

similarly situated welfare recipients who did not go through the JTPA program

fared in finding work, so no one really knows what difference the program

makes.  For example, JTPA may place 60 percent of its participants--but if 60

percent of similarly situated welfare recipients who do not go through JTPA

also find jobs, the program is a waste of money.  As conservatives have been

quick to point out, the absence of a control group has proved a critical

stumbling block to evaluating other job programs, such as Massachusetts's

much-heralded ET initiative.  Of course, not knowing whether JTPA made a

difference is not the same as knowing that it didn't--but there's good reason

to believe that it doesn't do much to reduce dependency.  Study after study of

the program shows that it achieves its high placement race by

"creaming"--skimming the most talented few off the top.  In 1985 only 72,500

AFDC recipients "entered employment" through JTPA (meaning they showed up for

at least one day of work).  According to the best estimates of the Labor

Department, JTPA participants were significantly better educated than the rest

of the AFDC population.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Creaming, it should be noted, is not limited to the JTPA program.  It is

endemic in job programs, because most administrators prefer to help job-ready

applicants.  Such applicants are often more eager to work, and it's easier to

get them hired--enabling the administrator, naturally, to show a high

job-placement rate.  What the Reagan Administration did, though, was encourage

more creaming, by tilting federal incentives further away from working with

hard-core welfare mothers.  For example, the Administration's performance

standards offer financial incentives to program managers who can quickly place

applicants in private-sector jobs at a low per-slot cost.  Women who have been

on welfare for a decade or more, however, need more than the shallow but

"efficient" support offered through JTPA--a few weeks of training and a lecture

about how to shape a resume aren't enough.  Several recent studies of other

programs (studies that do use control groups) show that the most disadvantaged

welfare recipients--mothers who dropped out of high school, have little or no

work experience, and stay on welfare for long periods--benefit the most from

employment and training programs.  The same studies show that AFDC recipients

who are better prepared for the job market--like those who go through the JTPA

program--ultimately derive little benefit from work programs. The job-ready

candidates would have climbed off welfare without government help.<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



<p>



     In view of JTPA's shortcomings, diagnosing the ills of current job

programs seems easy enough:  they've failed to reach enough welfare mothers,

and those they have reached have least needed the help.  The prescription,

consequently, seems equally clear:  expand job programs and give priority to

serving chronic welfare recipients.  But neither the Administration's nor the

Democrats' work program under debate in Congress this year would affect the

welfare rolls more than marginally.  The divide in this year's debate is

between those who favor a targeted approach to work programs (generally

Democrats) and those who favor a blanket approach (generally Republicans).  The

problem, it turns out, is that the targeted approach is not so carefully aimed

and the blanket method is not so all-inclusive.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Targeting, whose champions are Ted Kennedy and Augustus Hawkins (the

respective chairmen of the Senate and House labor committees), would give

chronic welfare mothers priority over job-ready recipients.  For example,

Kennedy's Jobs for Employable Dependent Individuals (JEDI) program provides

financial bonuses to states that train and place AFDC recipients who have been

on welfare for at least two years or are young high school dropouts.  JEDI

passed the Senate last April, 99 to 0, and Kennedy says that it "could be the

catalyst for real change in long-term dependency."  Yet no one actually knows

how to reach hard-core welfare mothers on a broad scale.  The National

Governors' Association favors the preemptive strike--that is, immediately going

after welfare mothers who are candidates for long-term dependency.  Suggested

reforms include requiring teen mothers to stay in school, mandating immediate

work for young unwed mothers, and requiring mothers to seek work as soon as

their youngest child turns three.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Reagan's advisers dismiss targeting as the latest academic fad.  Robert

Carleson, a former Reagan aide now in the private sector, says, "Social

scientists always try to categorize people, but you can't sit in your ivory

tower in Washington and apply these kinds of demographic distinctions to

millions of people around the country.  It would be a disaster." Even David

Ellwood--who with his colleague Mary Jo Bane has done most of the work

analyzing how short-term and chronic recipients differ--is skeptical.

"Targeting which is handled badly can make people feel isolated and

stigmatized," he says.  "You don't, moreover, want to offer help only to those

with the greatest impediments, since that can create the wrong impressions

about what is rewarded."  As Ellwood points out, setting aside resources for

chronic welfare recipients could seem to penalize job-ready welfare recipients

who finished high school or have recent work experience.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The only real way to get welfare mothers working, Administration officials

assert, is to have a broad, mandatory program.  For the past seven years Reagan

has proposed, with little success, a national version of a "workfare" program,

but Congress is now taking the work-requirement approach more seriously.  The

Administration's current proposal--the Greater Opportunities Through Work

(GROW) program--is easily its most ambitious to date.  Previous Administration

workfare plans allowed most mothers to beg off if their youngest child was less

than six years old.  GROW would require mothers with children of six months or

more to participate, roughly doubling the number of welfare recipients who

would be reached by the program.  When the program was fully operational, 60

percent of those eligible would be looking or training for work, finishing high

school, or in a workfare slot.<p>



<p>



<p>



     GROW would cast a wider net than Kennedy's JEDI proposal, but it still

would reduce dependency only modestly.  That's because of the two stumbling

blocks that politicians love to ignore when talking about work programs--the

price tag and the "dribble-out" phenomenon.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Cost estimates for GROW have left some welfare analysts incredulous.

During the first year of the program, when 20 percent of those eligible for

GROW would be expected to participate, roughly $40 million of the money would

be for child care.  California alone expects to spend twice as much next year

on child care for a much smaller group of welfare mothers in its work program.

Underestimating the cost of a job program is far more than just a

bean-counter's nightmare;  as the experience with WIN shows, inadequate funding

can hinder efforts to reduce dependency.  AFDC family heads, for examples have

been "required" to participate in WIN since 1967, but the requirement has

largely been meaningless.  Underfunded from the start, WIN typically registers

hundreds of thousands of welfare mothers who end up doing nothing, since there

is no work or training available through the program.  Participation

requirements make the paper-shuffling routine worse, since lots of recipients

can be served only if the most job-ready mothers are helped.  GROW provides

similarly perverse incentives for creaming by withholding matching funds for

the direct costs of education or training--both of which chronic welfare

recipients need to become employable.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Assume, though, for the sake of argument, that GROW's cost estimates are

plausible and its incentives flawless.  There remains the stumbling block of

the dribble-out phenomenon:  once job programs get rolling, some people drop

out, and simultaneously the number that get exempted seems inevitably to grow.

Historically, the most successful job programs have a placement rate of about

65 percent.  That means one out of three participants doesn't get a job out of

the "best" programs;  the person gets sick, finds a job before the program is

completed, gets married, or recycles through the program.  Meanwhile, those who

do see the program through typically fail to make enough money in their

training slot or low-wage job to get off welfare.  As David Ellwood reports,

the most successful programs for poor mothers "boost earnings by perhaps a

thousand dollars per year on average, surely not enough to insure

self-support."  Unlike many mothers of preschoolers, those on welfare typically

cannot secure a decent-paying part-time job that will enable them also to care

for their children.<p>



<p>



<p>



     These humble results might be dismissed as unrepresentative, part and

parcel of the small, inefficient job programs of yesteryear, were it not for

the loophole problem. GROW actually would grant far fewer exemptions than other

work proposals, including the current proposal from the National Governors'

Association.  The NGA, for example, would not require mothers with children

under three to participate in its work-education initiative--which lets almost

40 percent of all AFDC recipients off the hook before the program begins.  By

lowering the age of the youngest child to six months for exemption, GROW closes

that loophole and purportedly covers 90 percent of the AFDC caseload.<p>



<p>



<p>



     Yet even in GROW the numbers would still add up:  10 percent of AFDC

mothers with infants would be exempt;  40 percent of the people eligible for

GROW would not be required to participate when the program was fully

implemented.  Some people would recycle back into the program after losing a

job.  Others would participate by getting their high school degree instead of

working.  The cumulative effect of the loopholes can be seen in the

Administration's own projections.  By 1992, when the program was fully

implemented, 440,000 fewer families would be on welfare because of GROW, either

because they had found jobs through the program or because they were deterred

by GROW from ever going on AFDC.  That's a 12 percent reduction--worthwhile,

certainly, but far short of a "simple solution" to the welfare problem.<p>



<p>



<p>



     The modest record of employment initiatives has stirred renewed interest

in more-radical solutions.  Job-related reforms advocated in recent months have

included abolishing AFDC and replacing it with a guaranteed government jobs

program;  and expanding the use of tax credits, to make it easier for mothers

to work part-time without having to rely on AFDC.  Recommendations for

reforming cash benefits have included shutting off payments to a family after

two years, and expanding child-support laws to provide single parents a

guaranteed income.  A far-reaching overhaul isn't likely in 1987, however,

because the political consensus between Republicans and Democrats breaks down

when more than philosophical support for job programs is at stake.<p>



<p>



<p>



     What's likely to emerge from the Republican-Democratic tug-of-war in

Congress is some tinkering with the cash side of the welfare system, plus a

compromise job program that includes more funding for jobs and training, with

stiffer obligations for recipients.  Should President Reagan win authorization

for a series of demonstration projects at the local level, they undoubtedly

would produce some useful ideas for curbing welfare dependency.  Still, most of

the experiments are expected to run for at least five years, so final results

wouldn't be available until at least 1992, long after Reagan leaves office.  In

the meantime, the prospects for mothers to climb off the relief rolls the

old-fashioned way--through earnings--remain dim, far dimmer than either Ronald

Reagan or Ted Kennedy cares to admit.<p></blockquote>



<p><hr>



<img src="../../../images/transp.gif" alt="" height=10><br>



<nobr>



<a href="#top">

<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>



<a href="../../../home.htm">

<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>





</nobr>





<p><font size=1>

Copyright &copy; 1987 by David Whitman.  All rights reserved.

</font>



</body></html>

</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-42</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B045-29</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/poverty/othrund.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117201035 text/html 52507
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:10:01 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:04:22 GMT
Content-length: 52301
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
The Other Underclass
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>December 1991</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

The Other Underclass

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Nicholas Lemann</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>Most people think of inner-city poverty as a black phenomenon. But it is 
also alarmingly high among Puerto Ricans, the worst-off ethnic group in 
the country--even though Puerto Rico itself has made great progress against poverty and 
there is a growing Puerto Rican middle-class on the mainland</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>T</font>he term "Hispanic" which is used to describe Spanish-speaking American 
ethnic groups--mainly Mexican-Americans, but also Cubans, Puerto Ricans, 
Dominicans, Colombians, Salvadorans, Nicaraguans, and immigrants from 
other Latin American countries--may wind up having only a brief run in 
common parlance. It has been in official governmental use for only a few 
years; the Census Bureau did not extensively use the term "Hispanic" until 
the 1980 census. Now it faces two threats: First, although most Hispanic 
groups are comfortable with the term, another name, "Latino," is gaining 
favor, especially on campuses, because it implies that Latin America has a 
distinctive indigenous culture, rather than being just a step-child of 
Spain. Second, the very idea that it is useful to try to understand all 
Americans with Spanish-speaking backgrounds as members of a single group 
tends to crumble on examination.<P>
Cubans, who are much more prosperous than the other Hispanic subgroups, 
have now risen above the national mean in family income. They are 
concentrated in Florida. Mexican-Americans, who make up about two thirds 
of the country's 22.4 million Hispanics, live mainly in the Southwest, 
especially California and Texas. Puerto Ricans are the second-largest 
Hispanic group--2.75 million people in the mainland United States. A third 
of them live in one city--New York.<P>
As soon as the Hispanic category is broken down by group, what leaps out 
at anyone who takes even a casual look at the census data is that Puerto 
Ricans are the worst off ethnic group in the United States. For a period in the mid-1980s 
nearly half of all Puerto Rican families were living in poverty. It seems 
commonsensical that for Hispanics poverty would be a function of their 
unfamiliarity with the mainland United States, inability to speak English, 
and lack of education. But Mexican Americans, who are no more proficient in English than Puerto Ricans, less 
likely to have finished high school, and more likely to have arrived here 
very recently, have a much lower poverty rate. The Journal of the American 
Medical Association reported earlier this year that, as the newsletter of 
a leading Puerto Rican organization put it, "On almost every health 
indicator...Puerto Ricans fared worse" than Mexican-Americans or Cubans. 
Infant mortality was 50 percent higher than among Mexican-Americans, and 
nearly three times as high as among Cubans.<P>
The statistics also show Puerto Ricans to be much more severely afflicted 
than Mexican-Americans by what might be called the secondary effects of 
poverty, such as family breakups, and not trying to find employment--which 
work to ensure that poverty will continue beyond one generation. In 1988 
females headed 44 percent of Puerto Rican families, as opposed to 18 
percent of Mexican-American families. Mexican-Americans had a slightly 
higher unemployment rate, but Puerto Ricans had a substantially higher 
rate in the sociologically ominous category "labor force 
non-participation," meaning the percentage of people who haven't looked 
for a job in the previous month.<P>
Practically everybody in America feels some kind of emotion about blacks, 
but Puerto Rican leaders are the only people I've ever run across for whom 
the emotion is pure envy. In New York City, black median family income is 
substantially higher than Puerto Rican, and is rising more rapidly. The 
black home-ownership rate is more than double the Puerto Rican rate. 
Puerto Rican families are more than twice as likely as black families to 
be on welfare, and are about 50 percent more likely to be poor. In the 
mainland United States, Puerto Ricans have nothing like the black 
institutional network of colleges, churches, and civil-rights 
organizations; there isn't a large cadre of visible Puerto Rican successes 
in nearly every field; black politicians are more powerful than Puerto 
Rican politicians in all the cities with big Puerto Rican populations; and 
there is a feeling that blacks have America's attention, whereas Puerto 
Ricans, after a brief flurry of publicity back in West Side Story days, 
have become invisible.<P>
The question of why poverty is so widespread, and so persistent, among 
Puerto Ricans is an urgent one, not only for its own sake but also because 
the answer to it might prove to be a key to understanding the broader 
problem of the urban underclass. "Underclass" is a supposedly nonracial 
term, but by most definitions the underclass is mostly black, and 
discussions of it are full of racial undercurrents. Given the history of 
American race relations, it is nearly impossible for people to consider 
issues like street crime, unemployment, the high school dropout rate, and 
out-of-wedlock pregnancy without reopening a lot of ancient wounds. To 
seek an explanation for poverty among Puerto Ricans rather than blacks may 
make possible a truly deracialized grasp of what most experts agree is a 
non-race-specific problem. Although there is no clear or agreed-upon 
answer, the case of Puerto Ricans supports the view that being part of the 
underclass in the United States is the result of a one-two punch of 
economic factors, such as unemployment and welfare, and cultural ones, 
such as neighborhood ambience and ethnic history.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE FIRST EMIGRATION</b><P>
Puerto Rico was inhabited solely by Arawak Indians until 1493, when 
Christopher Columbus visited it on his second voyage to the New World. The 
island became a Spanish colony, and it remained one until 1898. In that 
year an autonomous Puerto Rican government was set up, with Spain's 
blessing, but it functioned for only a few days; American troops invaded 
during the Spanish-American War and the island became a possession of the 
United States shortly thereafter. The U.S. conquest of Puerto Rico was not 
the bloody kind that resonates psychologically through the generations; 
there was little resistance, and the arrival of the troops was cheered in 
many places. In 1917 all Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship and 
allowed to elect a senate, but until after the Second World War the island 
was run by a series of colonial governors sent from Washington.<P>
During this period Puerto Rico underwent an economic transformation, as 
big U.S. sugar companies came in and established plantations. Previously 
the island's main crops had been grown on small subsistence farms up in 
the hills. The sugar plantations induced thousands of people to move down 
to the coastal lowlands, where they became what the anthropologist Sidney 
Mintz calls a "rural proletariat," living in hastily constructed 
shantytowns and often paid in company scrip. The most salient feature of 
Puerto Rico throughout the first half of the twentieth century, at least 
in the minds of non-Puerto Ricans, was its extreme poverty and 
overpopulation. "What I found appalled me," John Gunther wrote, in Inside 
Latin America (1941), about his visit to Puerto Rico. "I saw native 
villages steaming with filth--villages dirtier than any I ever saw in the 
most squalid parts of China....I saw children bitten by disease and on the 
verge of starvation, in slum dwellings--if you can call them 
dwellings--that make the hovels of Calcutta look healthy by comparison." 
Gunther reported that more than half of Puerto Rican children of school 
age didn't go to school, that the island had the highest infant-mortality 
rate in the world, and that it was the second most densely populated place 
on earth, after Java.<P>
From such beginnings Puerto Rico became, after the Second World War, one 
of the great economic and political successes of the Latin American Third 
World. The hero of the story is Luis Munoz Marin (the son of the most 
important Puerto Rican political leader of the early twentieth century), 
who founded the biggest Puerto Rican political party and, after the United 
States decided to allow the island to elect its own governor, was the 
first Puerto Rican to rule Puerto Rico, which he did from 1949 to 1964. 
Munoz was the leading proponent of the idea of commonwealth status, as 
opposed to statehood or independence, for Puerto Rico. Under the system he 
helped to institute, Puerto Ricans forfeited some rights of U.S. 
citizenship, such as eligibility for certain federal social-welfare 
programs and the right to participate in national politics, and in return 
remained free of certain responsibilities, mainly that of paying federal 
income taxes. (Local taxes have always been high.)<P>
Munoz's main goal was the economic development of the island. He 
accomplished it by building up the educational system tremendously at all 
levels, by using the tax breaks to induce U.S. companies to locate 
manufacturing plants in Puerto Rico, and perhaps (here we enter a realm 
where the absolute truth is hard to know) by encouraging mass emigration. 
Michael Lapp, a professor at the College of New Rochelle, unearthed 
memoranda from several members of Munoz's circle of advisers during the 
1940s in which they discuss schemes to foster large-scale emigration from 
Puerto Rico as a way of alleviating the overpopulation problem. "They 
speculated about the possibility of resettling a breathtakingly large 
number of people," Lapp wrote in his doctoral dissertation, and described 
several never
realized plans to create agricultural colonies for hundreds of thousands 
of Puerto Ricans elsewhere in Latin America.<P>
It's doubtful that the Munoz government would ever have been able to 
export Puerto Ricans en masse to Brazil or the Dominican Republic, but in 
any case the issue became moot, because heavy voluntary emigration to an 
extremely nonagricultural venue--New York City--was soon under way. In 
1940 New York had 70,000 Puerto Rican residents, in 1950 it had 250,000, 
and in 1960 it had 613,000. In general, what brought people there was 
economic prospects vastly less dismal than those in Puerto Rico. Back 
home, at the outset of the migration, industrialization was still in its 
very early stages, sugar prices were depressed, and thousands of people 
who had moved from the hills to the lowlands a generation earlier now had 
to move again, to notorious slums on the outskirts of urban areas, such as 
La Perla ("the pearl") and El Fanguito ("the little mudhole"). "The whole 
peasantry of Puerto Rico was displaced," says Ramon Daubon, a former 
vice-president of the National Puerto Rican Coalition. Among Munoz's many 
works was the construction of high
rise housing projects to replace the slums, but during the peak years of 
Puerto Rican emigration little decent housing for the poor was available 
locally.<P>
In particular what set off the migration was the institution of cheap air 
travel between San Juan and New York. During the 1940s and 1950s a one-way 
ticket from San Juan to New York could be bought for less than $50, and 
installment plans were available for those without enough cash on hand. 
Munoz's government may not have invented the emigration, but it did do 
what it could to help it along--first by allowing small local airlines to 
drive down air fares, and second by opening, in 1948, a Migration Division 
in New York, which was supposed to help Puerto Ricans find jobs and calm 
any mainland fears about the migration which might lead to its being 
restricted, as had been every previous large-scale migration of an ethnic 
group in the twentieth century.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE SOUTH BRONX BECOMES THE SOUTH BRONX</b><P>
At first the center of Puerto Rican New York was 116th Street and Third 
Avenue, in East Harlem. This was part of the congressional district of 
Vito Marcantonio, the furthest-to-the-left member of the House of 
Representatives and a staunch friend of the Puerto Ricans. A rumor of the 
time was that he was "bringing them up" because Italian-Americans were 
moving out of Harlem and he needed a new group of loyal constituents. But 
the migration increased after Marcantonio lost his seat in the 1950 
election. By the end of the 1950s the Puerto Rican center had begun to 
shift two miles to the north, to 149th Street and Third Avenue, in the 
Bronx, which is where it is today.<P>
At the time, the South Bronx was not a recognized district. A series of 
neighborhoods at the southern tip of the Bronx--Mott Haven, Hunts Point, 
Melrose--were home to white ethnics who had moved there from the slums of 
Manhattan, as a step up the ladder. These neighborhoods were mostly 
Jewish, Italian, and Irish. Most of the housing stock consisted of 
tenement houses, but they were nicer tenements than the ones on the Lower 
East Side and in Hell's Kitchen. From there the next move was usually to 
the lower-middle-class northern and eastern Bronx, or to Queens. During 
the boom years after the Second World War whites were leaving the South 
Bronx in substantial numbers. Meanwhile, urban renewal was displacing many 
blacks and Puerto Ricans from Manhattan, and the city was building new 
high-rise public housing--much of it in the South Bronx. During the 
mid-1960s another persistent rumor was that Herman Badillo, who had been 
appointed the city's relocation commissioner in 1961, tried to engineer 
the placement of as many Puerto Ricans as possible in the South Bronx, so 
that he would have a base from which to run for office. (Badillo was 
elected borough president of the Bronx in 1965, and in 1970 he became the 
first Puerto Rican elected to the U.S. Congress.)<P>
For most of the Puerto Ricans moving to the South Bronx, though, the 
neighborhood was just what it had been for the area's earlier occupants--a 
step up (usually from East Harlem). All through the 1950s and 1960s it was 
possible to see Puerto Ricans as a typical rising American immigrant group 
(rising more slowly than most, perhaps), and their relocation to the South 
Bronx was part of the evidence. The idea that New York was going to be 
continually inundated by starving Puerto Rican peasants for whom there was 
no livelihood at home had faded, because spectacular progress was being 
made back on the island: per capita income increased sixfold from 1940 to 
1963; the percentage of children attending school rose to 90.<P>
In a new preface for the 1970 edition of Beyond the Melting Pot, Nathan 
Glazer and Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote, "Puerto Ricans are economically 
and occupationally worse off than Negroes, but one does find a substantial 
move in the second generation that seems to correspond to what we expected 
for new groups in the city." In keeping with the standard pattern for 
immigrants, Puerto Ricans were beginning to achieve political power 
commensurate with their numbers in the city. And the War on Poverty and 
the Model Cities program created a small but important new cache of jobs 
for Puerto Ricans which were more dignified and better-paying than jobs in 
the garment district and hotel dining rooms and on loading docks and 
vegetable farms.<P>
But the 1970s were a nightmare decade in the South Bronx. The statistical 
evidence of Puerto Rican progress out of poverty evaporated. After rising 
in the 1960s, Puerto Rican median family income dropped during the 1970s. 
Family structure changed dramatically: the percentage of Puerto Ricans 
living in families headed by a single, unemployed parent went from 9.9 in 
1960 and 10.1 in 1970 to 26.9 in 1980. The visible accompaniment to these 
numbers was the extraordinary physical deterioration of the South Bronx, 
mainly through arson. Jill Jonnes, in We're Still Here: The Rise, Fall, 
and Resurrection of the South Bronx, wrote:<P><blockquote>
     "There was arson commissioned by landlords out for their 
insurance....Arson was set by welfare recipients who wanted out of their 
apartments....Many fires were deliberately set by junkies--and by that new 
breed of professional, the strippers of buildings, who wanted to clear a 
building so they could ransack the valuable copper and brass pipes, 
fixtures, and hardware...Fires were set by firebugs who enjoyed a good 
blaze and by kids out for kicks. And some were set by those who got their 
revenge with fire, jilted lovers returning with a can of gasoline and a 
match...."</blockquote><P>
Exact numbers are difficult to come by, but it seems safe to say that the 
South Bronx lost somewhere between 50,000 and 100,000 housing units during 
the 1970s, and this produced the vistas of vacant, rubble-strewn city 
blocks by which the outside world knows the South Bronx. Two Presidents, 
Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, paid well-publicized visits to burned-out 
Charlotte Street. Theories abound about why, exactly, the South Bronx 
burned: the excessive strictness of rent control in New York, the 
dispiriting effects of welfare and unemployment, the depredations of 
drugs. It is not necessary to choose among them to be able to say that the 
burning took place because most parties had abandoned any commitment to 
maintaining a functional society there. It is rare for the veneer of 
civilization to be eroded so rapidly anywhere during peace time. Fernando 
Ferrer, the Bronx's borough president, says, "I remember in 1974 walking 
around Jennings Street. One weekend everything's going, stores, et cetera. 
The next week, boom, it's gone. It hit with the power of a locomotive. In 
'79, '80, it seemed like EVERY goddamn thing was burning."<P>
By virtue of the presidential visits and its location in New York City 
(and its prominence in Bonfire of the Vanities), the South Bronx has 
become the most famous slum in America. To visit it today is to be amazed 
by how much less completely devastated it is than we've been led to 
expect. The area around 149th Street and Third Avenue, which is known as 
the Hub, is a thriving retail district, complete with department stores 
and the usual bodegas (corner stores) and botanicas (shops selling 
religious items and magic potions). A neighborhood like Lawndale in 
Chicago, in contrast, hasn't had any substantial commercial establishments 
for more than twenty years. During the daytime the Hub area feels lively 
and safe. Also, there is new and rehabilitated housing all over the South 
Bronx, including incongruous ranch-style suburban houses lining Charlotte 
Street, row houses on Fox Street, and fixed-up apartment houses all over 
the old tenement districts from Hunts Point to Mott Haven.<P>
What accounts for the signs of progress is, first, a decision during the 
prosperous 1980s by the administration of Mayor Ed Koch ("kicking and 
screaming," Ferrer says) to commit a sum in the low billions to the 
construction and rehabilitation of housing in the South Bronx. This has 
led to the opening of many thousands of new housing units. Some of them 
are very unpopular in the neighborhood, because they are earmarked to 
house homeless people who are being moved out of welfare hotels in 
Manhattan. Community leaders in the Bronx grumble that there's a master 
plan to export Manhattan's problems to their neighborhood.<P>
Several impressive community-development groups, including the Mid-Bronx 
Desperadoes, Bronx Venture Corporation, and Banana Kelly, have played a 
part in the rehabilitation of the neighborhood, by using funds from the 
city and foundations to fix up and then manage apartment buildings. 
Nationally, a generation's worth of efforts to redevelop urban slums 
haven't worked well on the whole. The lesson of the community groups' 
success in the Bronx seems to be that if the focus of redevelopment is on 
housing rather than job creation, and if there is money available to 
renovate the housing, and if the groups are permitted to function as 
tough-minded landlords, then living conditions in poor neighborhoods can 
be made much more decent.<P>
The biggest community-development organization in the South Bronx is the 
South East Bronx Community Organization, which is run by Father Louis 
Gigante. Gigante, a Catholic priest, is a legendary figure in the Bronx. 
He is the brother of Vincent "The Chin" Gigante, the reputed head of the 
Genovese organized-crime family. He has been associated with St. 
Athanasius Church in Hunts Point since 1962, but he is an atypical priest: 
he is tough, combative, politically active (he served on the New York city 
council, and once ran for Congress), and immodest. The area surrounding 
St. Athanasius is an oasis of clean streets and well-kept housing, which 
Gigante runs in the manner of a benevolent dictator. He is known for his 
tough tenant-screening policy. "You've got to house a base of people with 
economic strength," he told me recently. "We look at family structure--how 
do they live? We visit everyone. We look in their background and see if 
there are extensive social problems, like drugs or a criminal record. Back 
in the late seventies, I'd only take ten or twelve percent of people on 
some government subsidy--including pensions. I was looking for 
working-class people. You cannot put a whole massive group of social 
problems all together in one place. They're going to kill you. They're 
going to destroy you. They're going to eat you up with their problems."<P>
For many years the politics of Hunts Point was dominated by a rivalry 
between Gigante and Ramon Velez, another legendary figure who was also a 
New York city councilman. Velez ran the Hunts Point Multi-Service Center, 
a large, government
funded social-services dispensary that provided him with a base of 
political patronage jobs. Born in Puerto Rico, Velez came to the South Bronx as a 
welfare caseworker in 1961, the year before Gigante arrived. A fiery 
street-corner speaker, he quickly became the kind of up-from-the-streets 
community leader that the War on Poverty liked to fund. He made the 
multi-service center into a big organization, ran for Congress once, 
registered hundreds of thousands of Puerto Rican voters, became a power in 
the Puerto Rican Day parade, and led demonstrations that helped induce the 
city to rebuild a large South Bronx hospital, which has been by far the 
most significant new source of jobs in the area. He was investigated and 
audited many times because of government money unaccounted for at his 
organizations. His aides were rumored to carry weapons and to threaten 
political rivals with violence. (Velez says this isn't true.) Once Velez 
and Gigante got into a fistfight after Velez called Gigante a maricon 
("queer"). (Velez insists that this never happened.)<P>
Today Gigante and Velez are both in their late fifties, gray-haired (at 
least they were until recently, when Velez dyed his hair black), and 
mellowed. Each professes to have developed a grudging respect for the 
other. No doubt they will soon be representatives of a certain period in 
the past--the rough-and-tumble period when the Bronx was just becoming 
Puerto Rican. Fernando Ferrer, on the other hand, is part of the first 
generation of Puerto Ricans born and raised in the Bronx to come to power. 
He has been groomed for leadership ever since, as a teenager, he joined a 
program for promising Puerto Rican kids called ASPIRA.<P>
A different group--Dominicans--is now streaming into New York (mainly 
Washington Heights, in Manhattan, but also the South Bronx) but is too 
recently arrived to have produced the kind of leaders whose names are 
widely recognized. A common Dominican route to the United States is to pay 
a smuggler $800 or $1,000 for boat passage from the Dominican Republic to 
Puerto Rico, and then to buy a plane ticket from San Juan to New York. 
Estimates of the number of Dominicans who have moved to New York City in 
the past decade run between a half million and a million. Dominicans are 
known for their industriousness, and many of them are illegal aliens 
ineligible for any kind of social-welfare program; they have gone into the 
undesirable, illegal, or disorganized end of the labor market, working in 
sweatshops, driving gypsy cabs, dealing drugs, and operating nightclubs 
and other perilous small businesses. In New York City, according to Ramon 
Velez, 6,500 "Puerto Rican Judases" have sold their bodegas to Dominicans. 
Gigante says that many of his tenants are now Dominican. Partly because 
the Dominican migration is predominantly male and the Puerto Rican family 
in the South Bronx is predominantly female-headed, Dominican-Puerto Rican 
marriages and liaisons are becoming common. Surely the Dominican migration 
is partly responsible for the increased vitality that the South Bronx has 
begun to display.<P>
I don't mean to make the South Bronx sound happier than it is. Only a 
block and a half from the Hub, at the corner of 148th Street and Bergen 
Avenue, is an outdoor drug market, one of many in the area. There is still 
a great deal of deteriorated housing and vacant land where housing used to 
be. I spent a couple of mornings recently at Bronx Venture Corporation, a 
job-placement and community
development organization in the Hub, talking to Puerto Ricans who had come 
in to get help finding work. Without exception they wanted to leave the 
South Bronx. They complained about absent fathers, angry mothers, brothers 
in jail, sisters on welfare; about ruthless competition with the 
Dominicans for jobs, shoot-outs between drug dealers, high schools where 
nobody learns, domestic violence, alcoholism, a constant sense of danger. 
Something is badly wrong there.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>WHY IS THERE A PUERTO RICAN UNDERCLASS?</b><P>
There is no one-factor explanation of exactly what it is that's wrong. In 
fact, most of the leading theorists of the underclass could find support 
for their divergent positions in the Puerto Rican experience.<P>
One theory, which fits well with William Julius Wilson's argument that the 
underclass was created by the severe contraction of the unskilled-labor 
market in the big northeastern and midwestern cities, is that Puerto 
Ricans who moved to the mainland during the peak years of the migration 
were unlucky in where they went. New York City lost hundreds of thousands 
of jobs during the 1970s. Particularly unfortunate for Puerto Ricans was 
the exodus of much of the garment industry to the South. "What I see is a 
community that came here and put all its eggs in one basket, namely the 
garment industry and manufacturing," says Angelo Falcon, the president of 
the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy. When the unskilled jobs in New York 
began to disappear, Puerto Ricans, who had little education and so were 
not well prepared to find other kinds of work, began to fall into drugs, 
street crime, and family dissolution.<P>
The ill effects of unemployment have been exacerbated by the nature of 
Puerto Rican sex roles and family life. The tradition on the island is one 
of strong extended-family networks. These deteriorated in New York. "You find the extended 
family in Puerto Rico and the nuclear family here," says Olga Mendez, a 
Puerto Rican state senator in New York. The presence of relatives in the 
home would make it easier for Puerto Rican mothers to work; their absence 
tends to keep mothers at home, and so does the island ethic that women 
shouldn't work. In 1980 in New York City, 49 percent of black women and 53 
percent of white women were out of the labor force-
and 66 percent of Puerto Rican women. Even this low rate of labor-force 
participation is much higher than the rate for Puerto Rican women on the 
island. In the United States today the two-income family is a great 
generator of economic upward mobility, but it is a rare institution among 
poor Puerto Ricans, whose men are often casualties of the streets, 
addicted or imprisoned or drifting or dead. Also rare is the female-headed 
family in which the woman works. "That poverty rates soared for Puerto 
Rican families while they have declined for black families largely can be 
traced to the greater success of black women in the labor market," says a 
1987 paper by Marta Tienda and Leif Jensen, two of the leading experts on 
Puerto Ricans.<P>
Conservatives who emphasize the role of the welfare system in creating the 
underclass would say that since other Hispanic groups have labor-force 
participation rates and family structures markedly different from those of 
Puerto Ricans, the real issue must be the availability of government 
checks, not jobs. Other than Cubans, Puerto Ricans are the only 
Spanish-speaking ethnic group for whom full U.S. citizenship (and 
therefore welfare eligibility) in the immigrant generation is the rule 
rather than the exception. "What should be an advantage for Puerto Ricans-
namely, citizenship--has turned into a liability in the welfare state," 
Linda Chavez writes in Out of the Barrio: Toward a New Politics of 
Hispanic Assimilation. "They have been smothered by entitlements."<P>
In the community of underclass experts the role of pure skin-color 
prejudice is not much stressed these days, but the case can be made that 
it has contributed to the woes of poor Puerto Ricans. A staple of Puerto 
Rican reminiscence, written and oral, is the shock and hurt that 
dark-skinned Puerto Ricans feel when they come here and experience color 
prejudice for the first time. Blacks were enslaved on Puerto Rico for 
centuries--emancipation took place later there than here--but the 
structure of race relations was different from what it was in the American 
South. Plantations were relatively unimportant in pre-emancipation Puerto 
Rico, blacks were always a minority of the island's population, and there 
was a much higher proportion of free blacks than in the United States. 
Puerto Rico never developed the kind of rigid racial caste system that 
characterized places with plantation economies and black majorities. 
Intermarriage was common, and there was no bright legal and social line 
between those having African blood and whites. (The U.S. Census Bureau no 
longer asks Puerto Ricans to identify themselves by race.) In Puerto Rico 
the prosperous classes tend to be lighter-skinned, but dark-skinned people 
who acquire money don't find the same difficulty in being accepted in 
neighborhoods and social clubs that they do here.<P>
On the mainland racial prejudice may play a role in shutting Puerto Ricans 
out of jobs, in ensuring that they live in ghettos, and in instilling an 
internalized, defeatist version of the wider society's racial judgments. 
But what's striking about the racial consciousness of Puerto Ricans as 
against that of African-Americans is the much lower quotient of anger at 
society. The whole question of who is at fault for the widespread 
poverty--the poor people or the United States--seems to preoccupy people 
much less when the subject is Puerto Ricans. For example, conservatives 
now commonly attribute the persistent poverty of the black underclass to 
the "victim mentality" expressed by black professors and leadership 
organizations. I think that the victim mentality among blacks is much more 
a part of the life of the upper-middle class than of the poor. But even if 
we grant the premise that ethnic groups are ideologically monolithic, the 
Puerto Rican case would indicate that the victim mentality doesn't have 
anything to do with persistent poverty: the Puerto Rican leadership does 
not have a victim mentality, but persistent poverty is much more severe 
among Puerto Ricans than among blacks. The National Puerto Rican Coalition 
publishes first-rate studies about Puerto Rican poverty that take 
different sides on the question of whether or not it's completely 
society's fault--something it's difficult to imagine of the NAACP.<P><br><p>
<b>VA Y VEN</b><P>
A final theory about why Puerto Ricans are so poor as a group has to do 
with migration patterns. During the peak years of migration from Puerto 
Rico to the mainland, the people who migrated were apparently worse off 
than the people who didn't. A paper by Vilma Ortiz, of the Educational 
Testing Service, cites figures showing that in 1960 a group of recent 
Puerto Rican immigrants had a lower percentage of high school and college 
graduates than a control group on the island. Ortiz's view that it was not 
a migration of the most ambitious and capable--that people with less 
education and lower-status occupations were likelier to move--fits with 
the idea that for Munoz emigration was a way to reduce the crush of 
destitute former peasants on the island. Since about 1970, most experts 
believe, the pattern has been changing and better-educated Puerto Ricans 
have become more likely to leave the island, because of a shortage of 
middle-class jobs there. Oscar Lewis wrote in La Vida, his 1965 book about 
Puerto Rican poverty, "The majority of migrants in the New York sample had 
made a three-step migration--from a rural birthplace in Puerto Rico to a 
San Juan slum to New York." (Lewis did a lifetime of work on Latin 
American poverty which contains a great deal of interesting material, but 
he is rarely quoted anymore; his reputation is in total eclipse in 
academic circles because he invented the phrase "culture of poverty," 
which is now seen as a form of blaming the victim.)<P>
Social critics commonly complain that Puerto Ricans lack a true immigrant 
mentality--that they aren't fully committed to making it on the mainland, 
so they don't put down deep neighborhood and associational roots, as other 
immigrants do, and they are constantly moving back and forth from Puerto 
Rico. Glazer and Moynihan wrote,<P><blockquote>
     "In 1958-1959, 10,600 children were transferred from Puerto Rican 
schools, and 6,500 were released to go to school in Puerto 
Rico....Something new perhaps has been added to the New York scene--an 
ethnic group that will not assimilate to the same degree as others 
do..."</blockquote><P>
This is known as the va y ven syndrome; those who dispute its existence 
say that the heavy air traffic back and forth between New York and San 
Juan is evidence that Puerto Ricans visit their relatives a lot, not that 
they relocate constantly. "Where's your data [about constant relocation]?" 
Clara Rodriguez, a sociologist at Fordham University, asks. "There's 
nothing but travel data."<P>
The migration patterns of middle-class, as well as poor, Puerto Ricans 
have become an issue in recent years. As has been the case with other 
ethnic groups, the well-educated and employed Puerto Ricans leave the slums. For Puerto Ricans who 
came to New York during the 1940s and 1950s--in slang, "Nuyoricans"--the 
most common sequence of moves was from the island to East Harlem to the 
South Bronx to Soundview, a blue-collar neighborhood just across the Bronx 
River from Hunt's Point, and then to the middle-class North Bronx, Queens, 
New Jersey, or Connecticut.<P>
The consequent isolation of the Puerto Rican poor seems to be even more 
pronounced than the isolation of the black poor. Churches in black ghettos 
are all black institutions often dominated by middle-class blacks; the major 
churches in the South Bronx are Catholic and aren't run by Puerto Ricans. 
The work force of the New York City government is a third black and only a 
tenth Puerto Rican, meaning that middle-class blacks are much more likely 
than middle-class Puerto Ricans to return to the slums during the workday 
to perform professional social-service functions. The most common form of 
upward mobility in the South Bronx is supposed to be military service 
(South Bronx soldiers were often in the news during the Gulf War), but 
that makes people more successful by taking them thousands of miles away 
from the neighborhood.<P>
The leaders of the South Bronx often don't live there. Ramon Velez has a 
residence in the Bronx but also ones in Manhattan and Puerto Rico; Ferrer 
and Badillo live in more prosperous sections of the Bronx; Robert Garcia, 
Badillo's much-loved successor in Congress, who resigned in a scandal, 
owned a house north of the New York City suburbs during the time he was in 
Congress; Yolanda Rivera, who as the head of Banana Kelly is one of the 
most promising young community leaders in the South Bronx, keeps a house 
in Old Saybrook, Connecticut. The Reverend Earl Kooperkamp, an Episcopal 
minister who was recently transferred to a South Bronx church after tours 
of duty in several poor black neighborhoods in New York City, says, 
"Anybody who was living here before and making anything got the hell out. 
In Harlem, East New York, Bushwick, Bedford Stuyvesant, you had the 
occasional professional. There are no lawyers and doctors in this 
community."<P>
When middle-class blacks move out of black ghettos, they usually relocate 
to more prosperous black neighborhoods, which form a nonblighted locus of 
the ethnic culture. Puerto Ricans who leave the South Bronx for other 
parts of the New York area tend to melt into more integrated 
neighborhoods, where it's much harder to maintain the fierce concern with 
"the race" that has historically existed in the black middle class. Ramon 
Daubon, of the National Puerto Rican Coalition, goes so far as to say, 
"There is no distinctive middle-class Puerto Rican neighborhood in the 
United States."<P>
There IS a Levittown for Puerto Ricans who are pursuing the standard dream 
of escape to suburban comfort--just outside San Juan. "If a Puerto Rican 
makes fifty or sixty thousand a year here, he wants to move back," says 
Ramon Velez. "He wants to buy land, build a house." Black middle-class 
emigrants from ghettos tend to remain in the same metropolitan area. 
Middle-class Puerto Ricans who move back to Puerto Rico can hardly 
function as role models, political leaders, counselors, or enlargers of 
the economic pie for the people in the South Bronx. "Look around in Puerto 
Rico," Velez says. "The legislature, all the influential people--they're 
all from New York. Two of my former employees are in the state senate. 
Those who are able to achieve something here and make money, they go 
back."<P>
When young middle-class Puerto Ricans leave the island for the mainland 
because they can't find work as doctors or engineers at home, they often 
gravitate not to New York but to Sun Belt destinations like Orlando and 
Houston. The Puerto Rican population of Florida rose by 160 percent in the 
1980s. New York now has a reputation on the island as the place that poor 
people move to, and later leave if they make any money. The percentage of 
mainland Puerto Ricans who live in New York has dropped steadily over the 
years, and if you exclude Nuyoricans from the social and economic 
statistics, Puerto Ricans look much less like an underclass.<P>
Douglas Gurak and Luis Falcon, in a 1990 paper on Puerto Rican migration 
patterns, argue that poverty, nonparticipation in the labor force, and 
unstable marriages were often characteristic of the Puerto Ricans who are 
now poor here, rather than resulting from the economic and social 
conditions of New York. They write,<P><blockquote>
     "It is clear that the selectivity of the migration process...results 
in an overrepresentation of women in the New York region who are 
characterized by traits associated with poverty. Those with less labor 
force experience, less education, more children, and more marital 
instability are the ones most likely to migrate to the mainland. Those 
with more stable unions, fewer children and more education are more likely 
to return to the island."</blockquote><P>
In Puerto Rico, especially rural Puerto Rico, common-law marriage and 
out-of-wedlock childbearing are long-established customs. Before Munoz's 
modernization efforts brought the rates down, a quarter of all marriages 
on the island were consensual, and one third of all births were out of 
wedlock. (Munoz himself had two daughters out of wedlock, and married 
their mother only when he was about to assume the governorship of Puerto 
Rico.) Female immigrants to New York, Gurak and Falcon say, tend to come 
out of this tradition, and they are more likely than those who don't 
emigrate to have recently gone through the breakup of a marriage or a 
serious relationship. Other Hispanic emigrants, such as Dominicans and 
Colombians, tend to rank higher than non-emigrants on "human capital" 
measures like education, family structure, and work history; and Puerto 
Rican immigrants who settle outside New York aren't generally more 
disadvantaged than people who remain in Puerto Rico. The overall picture 
is one of entrenched Puerto Rican poverty becoming increasingly a problem 
in New York City rather than nationwide.<P>
Although their explanations vary, experts on Puerto Rican poverty tend to 
agree on how to ameliorate it: both Marta Tienda and Douglas Gurak, for 
example, call for special educational and job-training efforts. There is 
something about black-white race relations in America that leads people in 
all camps to dismiss those kinds of anti-poverty efforts in behalf of 
blacks as unimaginative, old-fashioned, vague, unworkable, or doomed to 
failure. The self-defeating view that the problem is so severe that it 
could be solved only through some step too radical for the political 
system ever to take seems to evaporate when the subject is Puerto Ricans 
rather than blacks.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE STATUS QUESTION</b><P>
Or it may be that the reason for the relatively calm and undramatic 
quality of discussions of Puerto Rican poverty is that the whole issue is 
really only a side show. The consuming policy matter for Puerto Ricans, 
including mainland Puerto Ricans, is what's known as the status question: 
the issue of whether Puerto Rico should become a state, become 
independent, or remain a commonwealth. "It affects our psyche, our 
opportunity, our identity, our families," says Jorge Batista, a Puerto 
Rican lawyer who is a former deputy borough president of the Bronx. "The 
only analogy for you is the Civil War. It permeates all our lives."<P>
Puerto Rico occupies an unusual economic middle ground--worse off than the 
United States, better off than most of the rest of Latin America. Progress 
is now coming much more slowly than it did in the Munoz years. Munoz 
retired in 1964, after handpicking his successor. During the next four 
years, however, Munoz's commonwealth party split into factions, and in 
1968 Luis Ferre, the head of the archrival statehood party, won the 
governorship. Munoz, then in retirement in Spain but still a god in Puerto 
Rico, handpicked another successor, Rafael Hernandez Colon. Hernandez 
unseated Ferre in the l972 election, and the statehood party passed into 
the hands of Carlos Romero Barcelo. The next few gubernatorial elections 
pitted Hernandez against Romero: Romero won in 1976 and 1980, and 
Hernandez won in 1984, and was re-elected against a different opponent in 
1988.<P>
The essential features of commonwealth are federal-income-tax exemption, 
only partial participation in the U.S. welfare system, and a lack of 
voting representation in Congress. Psychically, commonwealth status 
implies a certain distance from the United States--a commitment to the 
preservation of the Spanish language and of Puerto Rican culture. Like 
other liberal parties of long standing around the world, the commonwealth 
party is perceived as both the party of the establishment--of the way 
things are done in Puerto Rico--and the party of the common man. The 
party's symbol is the jibaro, the agrarian peasant from the mountains, the 
closest thing there is to an emblematic national figure. The typical 
Puerto Rican is no longer a jibaro, but that doesn't matter--the typical 
Texan is no longer a pickup-driving country boy named Bubba, either. 
Puerto Rico's idea of itself is as an island of earthy, unpretentious, 
good-hearted people who treat each other with dulce carino "sweet caring." 
It's easy to see how American culture could be perceived as a threat to 
this ethos, and thus something that should be kept at arm's length.<P>
The statehood party is prepared to take the plunge into American life, 
although it promises, by way of soothing people's fears, to establish an 
estatidad jibara. Politically, the statehood party is to the right of the 
commonwealth party (and far to the right of the small, left-wing 
independence party) on the classic Latin American issue of whether or not 
to view the United States as a benign force in the hemisphere.<P>
In terms of what would actually happen under statehood, though, the party, 
conservative though it may be, would bring into being a conservative 
counter-utopia. As a state, Puerto Rico would have two U.S. senators and five or 
six congressmen, all of whom might well be Democrats. And if Puerto Rico 
became a state, Republicans would find it more difficult to maintain their 
opposition to making the District of Columbia, even more solidly 
Democratic, a state too. Taxes on the island might rise significantly, 
because Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code, the big Puerto Rican tax 
break, would be abolished; businesses would presumably relocate elsewhere. 
Puerto Rico is now given parts of the U.S. social
welfare benefits package, and 1.4 million people, nearly half the island's 
population, receive food assistance. Statehood would bring full benefits 
and the welfare rolls of the new state might swell tremendously, not just 
with islanders but possibly also with mainland Puerto Ricans who would 
move back. A bitter controversy could be expected to emerge over whether 
to make English the island's official language.<P>
Robert L. Bartley, the editorial-page editor of The Wall Street Journal, 
who in conservative battles can usually be relied on to side with the 
ideologues against the pragmatists, recently concluded after a visit to 
Puerto Rico that "what the statehood issue really needs is a good 
vacation." Advocates of statehood--a mixture of business interests and the 
rising lower and middle classes, like Margaret Thatcher's coalition in 
Britain--acknowledge that it would be worse in the short term, and stress 
the overriding historical importance of the island's becoming fully 
American.<P>
The last time the status question was put to a vote in Puerto Rico was in 
1967; commonwealth won. There the matter rested until 1989, when Governor 
Hernandez, at his inauguration, issued a surprise call for resolution of 
the status question--and then, even more surprising, President Bush 
announced that he favors Puerto Rican statehood in his first address to 
Congress. Bush's Puerto Rico policy is usually explained as an example of 
his tendency to make decisions more on the basis of personal loyalty than 
of political analysis. Luis Ferry the first statehood
party governor, now an eighty-seven-year-old patriarch, is an old friend 
of Bush's, and endorsed him for President in 1980. Soon after the 1988 
election Don Luis came to Washington and stayed as a guest in the Bush 
home. There, the rumor goes, Bush asked him what he wanted as his reward 
now that the long crusade for the White House was over, and Ferre said, 
"Before I die, I would like to hear a President of the United States say 
before a joint session of Congress that he wants statehood for Puerto 
Rico."<P>
Bush's remarks in favor of statehood set off a two-year process in 
Congress to arrange another plebiscite in Puerto Rico. It was supposed to 
take place this year, but negotiations fell apart over such issues as 
whether the results would be binding on Congress and whether mainland 
Puerto Ricans would be allowed to vote. Now the plebiscite is sure to be 
put off until a year or two after the 1992 election. In the meantime, the 
commonwealth party's dream is that the U.S. Congress will allow it to be 
represented on the ballot by an option called "enhanced commonwealth," 
which would give Puerto Rico greater political autonomy, including the 
right to negotiate with foreign governments; even if this happens, it is 
not a foregone conclusion that the commonwealth option will win the 
plebiscite.<P>
Every possible outcome of the status question would have some effect on 
Puerto Rican poverty on the mainland. In the almost completely unlikely 
event of independence, the new Puerto Rican nation would be unable to 
offer anything like the current level of food-stamp benefits, and 
presumably there would be another mass emigration of the poor to the 
United States, motivated by fear of privation; when independence took 
effect, islanders would lose the right of free immigration to the mainland 
that they now have as U.S. citizens. Statehood would raise food assistance 
and other benefits on the island to their mainland levels, and so would 
engender some migration of the poor from the mainland to the island, thus 
making the problem of Puerto Rican poverty less severe in New York and 
other big eastern cities.<P>
Enhanced commonwealth is the only one of the three status options that 
holds any real promise of spurring economic development on the island in 
the near future. Even a muted reprise of Munoz's economic miracle could 
surely be expected to help alleviate Puerto Rican poverty in New York, by 
drawing people back to the island to find the unskilled jobs that they can 
no longer find on the mainland.<P>
Obviously, a great deal could be done on the mainland to reduce Puerto 
Rican poverty. That it can even be discussed as an island problem, 
suceptible to island solutions, may be the most important of all the 
differences between the situations of Puerto Ricans and blacks. For many 
blacks there is, psychologically, a homeland off stage, in the South or in 
Africa, but nobody can really think of it as a place where the wrenching 
difficulties of the present might be worked out.
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1991 by Nicholas Lemann.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"The Other Underclass";
The Atlantic Monthly, December, 1991, issue.
Volume 268, Number 6 (pages 96-110).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-43</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B045-189</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/poverty/origin2.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117201430 text/html 63639
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 20:14:20 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Mar 1996 23:04:12 GMT
Content-length: 63433
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
The Origins of the Underclass
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>July 1986</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

The Origins of the Underclass

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Nicholas Lemann</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>The first installment of this two-part article described why black urban 
ghettos are poorer and more isolated today than they have ever been. The 
question remaining is how to reverse the effects of what has become a 
self-sustaining culture</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	<font size=4><b>I. European Norms</font></b><p>
	<font size=5>T</font>oday's black ghettos were created by two migrations: first the migration 
of rural and small-town black southerners to cities, usually in the North; 
then, for the past twenty years, the migration of the cities' black middle 
and working classes to middle-class neighborhoods. The problems that now 
seem overwhelming in the ghettos--out-of-wedlock childbearing, 
unemployment, crime, poor educational achievement--have existed in the 
ghettos for more than half a century. When the ghettos were multi-class 
societies, their leadership tried to keep the problems in check by 
preaching a classic immigrant ethic of assimilation--if not into white 
society, at least into a society with middle-class values.<P>
In the late sixties, however, when the leadership left the ghettos, it 
stopped preaching to those who stayed behind. In fact, far from preaching 
to the ghettos, the official voices of society, both black and white, 
began defending the ghetto culture, arguing that it was merely a rational 
response to social and economic conditions and would change only when 
those conditions were changed by whites, and that to condemn it was to 
impose white values on a distinctive, valid, resilient culture.<P>
Earlier this year Joyce Ladner, a professor of social work at Howard 
University, wrote in the National Urban League's annual report on the 
state of black America that no problem is "more threatening to future 
generations" of blacks than teen-age pregnancy. In 1971, though, in her 
book tomorrow's tomorrow, Ladner was writing, "Conceivably, there will be 
no 'illegitimate' children and 'promiscuous' women in ten years if there 
are enough middle-class white women who decide that they are going to 
disavow the societal canons regarding childbirth and premarital sexual 
behavior." The next year the National Urban League published a book called 
The Strengths of Black Families; in the foreword Andrew Billingsley, a 
sociologist who is now at the University of Maryland, wrote, "'The 
operation of General Motors, the State Department, and the Ford Foundation 
have more to do with the structure and functioning of Black family life 
than the attitudes, desires, and personal proclivities of all the young 
men and young women who have been the subject of sociological analyses."  
In his 1968 book Black Families in White America Billingsley complained 
about "the deeply held view that patterns of responses generated, 
practiced, or sanctioned in the white community are normal. and that any 
deviations from those norms which might be relevant or common in the black 
community are abnormal deviant, and to be highly disvalued."  As a 
solution he suggested that "all the major institutions of society should 
abandon the single standard of excellence based on white European cultural 
norms."<P>
I saw this coincidence of the defense of ghetto culture and the migration 
out of the ghettos most plainly during time I recently spent in the ghetto 
in Chicago, when I met Al Sims, who was running a small branch office of 
the Urban League out of a former parochial school in the middle of the 
Cabrini-Green housing project, Chicago's most notorious. Sims was born in 
New Orleans and moved north with his family at the age of six. His father 
was a farm laborer in Louisiana; he came to Chicago in 1956, worked in 
construction, and after a year sent for his wife and nine children and 
installed them in an apartment at Cabrini-Green. "I remember very vividly 
getting off the train at Twelfth and Michigan and being picked up and 
taken here," Sims said. "It seemed like Shangri-la."  Cabrini-Green was 
then all low-rise, and it housed many Second World War veterans and their 
families, both black and white. Today it is mostly high-rise and all 
black. The population of the high-rises is as much as 75 percent poor; 65 
percent are under twenty-one and 80 percent are in female-headed families. 
The project has virtually no church attendance or legitimate business 
activity. The high school that serves it has a dropout rate of 89 percent. 
Four major gangs and close to a hundred subfactions are active there.<P>
All nine Sims children made it out of Cabrini-Green and into the middle 
class. "We were poor as dirt," Sims said. "But at a certain hour I had to 
be home. Mr. Sims wouldn't have it any other way. I credit my father. And 
the six or seven guys I hung out with, my buddies, they had smaller 
families, but they turned into zero. Tapped out. And they didn't have 
fathers."<P>
These days, he said, stories like his don't often happen. Why not? He 
said, "I believe America can make what it wants to work, work. White 
America would not allow white people to live like this. No way. The 
concept of genocide is very real, it gains meaning, when you think about 
black people in this town."<P>
He was fatalistic about ghetto culture--it was not something within the 
power of the residents of Cabrini-Green to control, because the outside 
forces that had created it were so powerful. Couldn't teenagers stop 
having children, and finish school, and get jobs, and get out? "It's just 
not going to happen that way. We can't turn back the clock and have Ozzie 
and Harriet."<P>
Sims had mentioned that he had a young daughter; I asked him what he would 
do if, as an unmarried teenager, she got pregnant. He looked at me with 
utter shock; we were no longer talking abstract social forces. "I would 
die. That would kill me," he said.<P>
Of the millions of black Americans who have risen from poverty to the 
middle class since the mid-sixties, virtually all have done so by 
embracing bourgeois values and leaving the ghetto. So it is worth 
exploring why black and white leaders have fiercely resisted telling these 
secrets to the people left behind.<P>
One reason is pure compassion--a feeling that anyone who understood where 
the problems of the ghetto had come from and how deep-seated they were 
could not expect lower-class blacks simply to set them aside. Another, 
maybe more important, reason is that for almost two centuries whites, 
especially in the South, have argued that blacks make up a separate caste, 
because they are immoral, irresponsible, and of inferior intelligence. In 
the black view, what whites have done, to justify keeping all blacks down, 
is to point to problems that the whites themselves have created, through 
centuries of slavery, segregation, and enforced poverty and ignorance. So 
a tradition has grown up of not discussing within the hearing of whites 
issues like out-of-wedlock childbirth, poor educational achievement, and 
crime. This prohibition was especially strong in the late sixties, when 
the old racial barriers were finally being broken down, and it is still 
strong. Over and over I heard from middle class blacks the belief that public discussions of ghetto problems would 
affect the way they were treated, or at least thought of, by whites.<P>
Glenn Loury, a professor at Harvard who is a prominent member of a new 
generation of conservative black intellectuals, last year in an article in 
The Public Interest offered a more cynical explanation for the resistance 
of established blacks to soul-searching about the underclass:<P>
"More fortunate blacks benefit, through the political system, from the 
conditions under which the poorest blacks must live.... The growing black 
'underclass' has become a constant reminder to many Americans of a 
historical debt owed to the black community. Were it not for the continued 
presence of the worst-off of all Americans, blacks' ability to sustain 
public support for affirmative action, minority business set-asides, and 
the like would be vastly reduced.... The evidence suggests that, for many 
of the most hotly contested public policies advocated by black spokesmen, 
not much of the benefit "trickles down" to the truly poor."<P>
Loury told me recently that after he wrote an earlier article criticizing 
the black leadership, Benjamin Hooks, the executive director of the 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, called him. 
"He said, 'Look, I'm a civil-rights leader. Sure, I know these problems 
exist, but my job is to hold white people's feet to the fire. In these 
years of Ronald Reagan and turning the clock back, how can I go around 
criticizing little black kids?'  Then I had a private meeting with a group 
of black leaders: Carl Holman, of the National Urban Coalition; John 
Jacob, of the National Urban League; Walter Fauntroy [the District of 
Columbia's representative in Congress]; Joseph Lowery, of the Southern 
Christian Leadership Conference; Coretta King. I made a one-hour 
presentation. I said the real problem is the problem of the black poor, 
and civil-rights activism is largely irrelevant, though not"--he 
winked--"if you want to own a TV station. I said, 'You people have 
exhausted a lot of moral capital with your whining.'  The reaction was 
quite amazing. I got no real rebuttal. They said, 'We appreciate your 
contribution. We're proud of you. A young black scholar like you being on 
the faculty at Harvard is what we were fighting for in the sixties. But 
you have to be careful of when and how you say these things."'<P>
It is not only the black leadership that has a strong interest in avoiding 
the subject of the underclass. The black equivalent of Middle America does 
too. The primary link between the black middle class and the underclass 
has been one of blood kinship. The underclass was not a neatly defined 
national issue--it was Aunt Mary, whose husband had left her and who had 
gone on welfare and moved to the projects. That is changing now, as 
members of the underclass lose social and family contact with their 
better-off friends and relatives. But there is still a link during the 
workday. An unusual proportion of blacks work for government--27 percent 
as against 16 percent of whites. Many of these jobs are in the ghetto: 
schoolteacher, postal worker, social worker, bus driver, police officer. 
The middle-class black neighborhoods in Chicago are full of people who 
commute to the ghetto to work. The daily contact leads many middle-class 
blacks to see the ghetto as a collection of individual hard-luck stories 
rather than as a problem that would be solved through some sweeping new 
government policy.<P>
Because the bifurcation of black society is still young, for many 
middle-class blacks the subject of the underclass strikes close to home. 
Glenn Loury grew up in a middle-class neighborhood on the South Side of 
Chicago. He fathered two children out of wedlock, and says that his family 
made economic progress in large part because his relatives ran speakeasies 
and sold marijuana. He says that he grew up being encouraged to keep a 
string of girlfriends and to refer to all women as "bitches."  Although he 
does not bristle at condemnations of illegitimacy, crime, and the pimp 
ethos among ghetto blacks, many people with his life story would.<P><br><p>
<font size=4><b>II. Blaming the Victim</font> </b><P>
The public debate about the underclass has for many years been dominated 
by two views of poor blacks, one considering them collectively (blacks are 
the victims of racial, economic, and welfare policies not in their power 
to change) and the other considering them individually (blacks can make 
their lives better through personal effort). In black politics and 
intellectual life the debate was symbolized for most of the twentieth 
century by a struggle between the followers of W. E. B. Du Bois and those 
of Booker T. Washington. Du Bois, whose family had been free for 
generations, belonged to the small group of blacks whose suffering 
consisted primarily of caste barriers, rather than ignorance, hunger, 
poverty, or social disorganization. He and the organization with which he 
was long identified, the NAACP, championed the cause of complete legal 
equality; although he was well aware of the social problems of the black 
lower class, they weren't at the center of his political agenda. 
Washington, born a slave on a plantation, was willing to put civil rights 
off for another day and concentrate on a program of self-help for the 
great mass of poor blacks, which was intended to turn them into a 
segregated but economically self-sufficient working and artisan class. 
Over the years, the Du Bois position gained ground. The idea of self-help 
for blacks was all but forgotten in the legal struggle over civil rights; 
the idea even became unrespectable.<P>
In the late fifties and early sixties, when the migration from the South 
swelled the urban ghettos until they were impossible to ignore, liberals 
began to discover the problems of the black lower class. At the time, the 
conservative and centrist position in the northern cities, articulated by 
Mayor Richard Daley, of Chicago, among others, was that blacks were just 
like any other immigrant group and would gradually move into the 
mainstream of city life. (Daley's own group, the Irish, had a large and 
troubled underclass in the nineteenth century.) Liberal intellectuals 
began to focus on how blacks differed from other immigrant groups--the 
much greater degree of oppression they had suffered, as this country's 
only non-voluntary immigrants and only slaves, and the deep psychological 
scars left by the black experience. The implication was that society had 
to do something special for blacks, though it hadn't for other immigrants; 
the ghettos would not heal themselves.<P>
Three books that give the tenor of liberal thought at the time are 
Slavery, by Stanley Elkins (1959), Crisis in Black and White, by Charles 
Silberman (1964), and Dark Ghetto, by Kenneth B. Clark (1965). Elkins, a 
white historian, compared slaves to the inmates of Nazi concentration 
camps, as a way of showing the harshness of the system and the 
psychological devastation that was its legacy. Silberman, a white 
journalist, was prophetic about the coming explosion in the ghettos and 
about the underclass. Clark, a black social scientist, was still more 
prescient; he predicted in terms that must have seemed extreme that crime, 
unemployment, and a splintered family life would be characteristics of the 
ghetto for a long time. Daniel Patrick Moynihan's famous 1965 report to 
President Johnson on the Negro family was very much of this school of 
thought; its characterization of ghetto life as a "tangle of 
pathology"--which some black scholars, including Andrew Billingsley, 
attacked as racist--came directly from Clark. Its subtitle was, 
significantly, "The Case for National Action." Moynihan saw it as the 
intellectual underpinning for new government programs.<P>
Blacks did not like being characterized as devastated and pathological, 
especially by whites; it was insulting. Also, it seemed a short step from 
the liberal position that the ghettos were horrible and needed help to the 
conservative position that the ghettos were horrible and should be given 
up on. And so emerged an odd, hybrid ideology that had the force of 
absolute consensus: Yes, the ghettos were devastated, but from without; 
there was nothing wrong with the people in them. The final nail in the 
coffin of Booker T. Washingtonism was a brilliant three-word phrase: 
"blaming the victim. "  Its inventor, William Ryan, a psychology professor 
at Boston College, wrote an early, influential attack on the Moynihan 
report, and in 1970 published a book titled Blaming the Victim. Explaining 
the phrase, he wrote, "This is how the distressed and disinherited are 
redefined in order to make it possible for us to look at society's 
problems and to attribute their causation to the individuals affected."  
In other words, ills that are society's fault are attributed to the people 
suffering from them, whose fault they manifestly are not.<P>
The growth of the idea that the ghetto was a valid "community" came just 
at the time when it was ceasing to be a community, because its leaders and 
institutions were moving away. Nonetheless the idea was responsible for 
the federal Community Action Program, a part of the War on Poverty, in 
which ghetto residents, instead of intrusive social workers, were supposed 
to be the agents of their own progress. In Chicago this led to the 
awarding of federal communication funds to "community leaders" like the 
Blackstone Rangers (forerunner gang of the El Rukns) and the Vice Lords. 
Silberman, who caught some of the early community
action enthusiasm, ended his book with a glowing chapter on the 
regeneration of the Woodlawn neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago 
through the organizing efforts of Saul Alinsky's The Woodlawn 
Organization. At the time, TWO was widely publicized as a model of 
effective community development. Today TWO is still respected in Chicago, 
but it certainly did not revive Woodlawn. The census figures available 
when Silberman was writing showed that Woodlawn had 81,000 residents. In 
1970 it had 54,000, and in 1980 it had 36,000--38 percent of its black 
residents moved away in ten years. The way up was not through community 
development. It was through getting out.<P>
The view that conditions in the ghetto would change only when white 
society decided to change them seems contradictory to the creed of 
community development, but it really isn't. The connection is this: if 
there is not a self-defeating culture in the ghettos, and if the ghettos 
nonetheless have problems, then white society must be to blame--who else 
could it be? The changes by white society that would heal the ghettos were 
usually described as "deep," "sweeping," and "structural."  Ryan wrote 
that "the solution lies in action to change the balance of power."  The 
trouble with this argument is that it is defeatism clothed in hope. This 
country so far has been unideological and uninclined to engage in deep, 
structural change except by accident and in order to meet pressing needs. 
To single out poor blacks as the one group in our society that will really 
suffer unless deep, structural changes are made, or unless an entirely 
different value system takes hold, is to consign them to suffering for the 
foreseeable future.<P>
I got to know a group of people in Chicago who had grown up in the town of 
Canton, Mississippi, migrated north in the fifties, and mostly done well 
there. They regularly talked to me about the importance of making 
something of oneself, with a fervor that would cause Norman Vincent Peale 
to blush. But they also felt entirely comfortable with the view of black 
problems in America as collective ones: they were comfortable with the 
opinions voiced by the black leadership, and they reflected the collective 
view in the way they talked about their own lives. The view of blacks as 
masters of their own fate and the view of blacks as objects of the will of 
whites exist simultaneously. I often heard conversations salted with 
references to "Mister Charlie" and "Miss Ann" or just "the Man," symbols 
of the all-powerful white. That all whites can be consolidated into one 
symbolic personage suggests a feeling among blacks that whites work in 
perfect concert while blacks work individually and often 
quarrelsomely--exactly the opposite of a view common among whites. The 
persistence of black anti-Semitism long after the Jewish merchants have 
left the ghettos--replaced in Chicago by Arabs, ironically--further 
testifies to the enduring appeal of the idea of an all-powerful white 
villain, in this case not "Mister Charlie" but "Goldberg."  The sneaking 
admiration that some middle-class blacks who would never dream of joining 
the Nation of Islam feel for Louis Farrakhan is stated in terms of his 
standing up to whites, being unintimidated by them. He's what St. Clair 
Drake and Horace Cayton, in their 1945 book about the Chicago ghetto, 
Black Metropolis, called a "Race Man": "Negroes tend to admire an 
aggressive Race Man even when his motives are suspect. They will applaud 
him, because, in the face of the white world, he remains 'proud of his 
race and always tries to uphold it whether it is good or bad, right or 
wrong.'"<BR>
<P><br><p>
<font size=4><b>III. The Ghetto Today</font></b><P>
Black Americans at every level--even those in the very bosom of the 
bourgeoisie, who work for white companies and live in affluent and 
sometimes integrated neighborhoods--still feel themselves to be apart from 
white America. It is impossible to imagine any other ethnic group able to 
support a slick commercial magazine like Ebony wanting to--the other 
groups are too much a part of the mainstream culture. (Ebony, by the way, 
constantly preaches both self-help and collective action for blacks.) As 
apart as all of black life is, ghetto life is a thousand times more so, 
with a different language, economy, educational system, and social ethic. 
White society, though physically less than a mile away from the Chicago 
ghetto, is so distant that in the ghetto I rarely heard an, hint of the 
intense race consciousness that pervades the rest of black society. 
Everything that has happened to lower-class blacks over the decades, every 
new twist, from segregation to the migration north to the civil-rights 
movement, seems to have separated them from society even more--separated 
them from whites, from the South, from middle-class black life, and 
finally even from uplifting preachment. They are immigrants who not only 
have not assimilated in the new land but may even have become more insular 
there. The ghetto today has schools and hospitals, heat and running water; 
those of its residents who use the system of welfare and food stamps have 
enough to eat. But the institutions that are supposed to ameliorate ghetto 
life (schools, public housing, the police, welfare agencies) give off a 
feeling not of hope or progress but of containment--of not letting things 
get out of hand to the point where life outside the ghetto would be 
directly affected.<P>
Orr High School, on the west side of Chicago, was designed by Mies Van der 
Rohe. It is a good example of his institutional style, with exposed steel 
girders, brick walls, and broad expanses of glass windows. Inside it is 
divided into several "houses" with their own libraries, cafeterias, and 
other facilities, in order to foster a feeling of educational intimacy. 
"The design of this building is not the design needed in a neighborhood 
like this," says the principal, Kenneth Van Spankeren, and it has been 
altered. Most of the glass has been replaced with an unbreakable plastic 
material called Lexan, which has turned cloudy. The parking lot is 
surrounded by a fifteen-foot wire-mesh fence and kept locked during the 
school day. An unarmed security guard is posted at the entrance, one of 
five on duty in the school every day and an armed policeman patrols the 
corridors. The interior stairwells are kept locked and are monitored by 
teachers.<P>
A few years ago the Chicago Tribune published an article about Van 
Spankeren, presenting him as an unusually successful inner-city high 
school principal. What this means is that he has been able to maintain 
order. The students have to wear plastic ID cards at school, can't wear 
gang symbols (the Vice Lords control the area), can't leave the building, 
and can't move freely inside the building. "We have a very close 
relationship with the Eleventh District police," Van Spankeren told me. 
"The area outside is under constant surveillance."  On the morning when we 
met, preparations were under way for a school dance, to be held at three 
in the afternoon and under tight security in order to avoid violence. The 
next morning, during first period, Van Spankeren's voice came over the 
loudspeaker, congratulating the students on the fact that the dance was 
held without incident. "We appreciate that, and we expect it," he said. 
"Students, make sure you have your ID cards, and they're on. Teachers, 
check and take attendance. Thank you, and have a nice day."<P>
There are 2,000 students at Orr, 800 of them freshmen; as at all the 
ghetto schools nowadays, the faculty has to worry less about how to handle 
overcrowded classrooms than about whether there will be enough students to 
maintain the ratio needed to avoid layoffs. Eighty percent of the students 
are black, 20 percent are Hispanic, and most are from poor, single-parent 
homes supported by welfare. The great majority are well below their grade 
level in achievement. In most recent years about 200 have graduated. The 
PTA has twenty members. Because it is virtually impossible for a Chicago 
teacher to be fired or even transferred, Van Spankeren has little leeway 
in picking his faculty. Most of the teachers I met at Orr were dedicated, 
but they had almost given up on teaching the students--instead, their 
emphasis was on maintaining a cheery atmosphere during class.<P>
I dropped in on Cindy Slevko's remedial mathematics class for freshmen. 
The students were working at their desks. "Right now they're working on 
homework they didn't do," she told me. "We're supposed to have eighteen in 
the class, and we have twelve today, which isn't too bad. In the sophomore 
demote class we'll have eighteen and only six will show up."  She had me 
look at some of the students' answers to problems: 4/8 = 1/4; 15 14/10 = 
15 4/10; 21/12 = 19/12. Sleyko said, "Now, look at problem twenty-nine 
here. They'd all get that wrong."  The problem was 7 minus 4 2/3.<P>
In Pat Michalski's earth-science class the students were watching the 
movie Forbidden Planet as a lesson in astronomy and also as a reward for 
finishing a difficult part of the course; it would take up three full 
class periods. Michalski, sitting in a small office off the classroom, 
said, "You have to regulate everything with these kids. Rules all the 
time. A lot are used to being hit. Their homes are constant noise."  A 
deep voice came out of the room where the students were watching the 
movie: "Where Miss Michalski at?"  She walked in, consulted with one of 
the boys, and came back to her office. "He wanted to know if that was the 
monster. That kid's a senior!" She pointed to a hand-lettered sign she'd 
hung over her desk, which said:<P><center>
DID<BR>
YOU Ever Know<BR>
That Your My<BR>
HERO!<BR>
And Everything<BR>
I'd Like TO Be:</center><P>
"That's by a junior! I know it looks like third grade," Michalski said. 
She motioned me into a corner of the classroom and whispered, "You 
wouldn't believe which of these kids are parents."  I counted while she 
pointed: seven.<P>
In Joe Valenziano's American-history class, the students were finishing 
their homework from the night before, which consisted of answering a 
series of questions by copying the answers out of textbooks. For handing 
this in the students would get five bonus points on their next exam. 
Valenziano said, "This is the old rote method of learning. You read it, 
you write it down. It seems to be working for me. I've been here sixteen 
years, and I've tried everything. "<P>
A student put a paper on his desk. Some of the answers were copied 
correctly and others were not: Who was George III? "He was a spy."  
Explain the role of blacks in the Revolutionary War: "forming of 
America."  Valenziano glanced at the paper and wrote a 5 on it. "If it 
looks good and they answer the questions, they get five points," he said. 
"I want them to copy! I call it sharing. See, these kids can't do homework 
like you and me. I learned this from working in an inner-city school. 
Sure, when I first came here I had all these pie-in-the-sky ideas. People 
might say it's cheating, but we all copy as adults. We all plagiarize as 
adults. There's nothing wrong with it."  <P>
Du Sable High School, which has 1,900 students, has even worse 
demographics than Orr--its parents are 100 percent poor--but the 
atmosphere is warmer, perhaps because it has a long history as one of the 
linchpin institutions in what was once a real community. The assistant 
principal, Luke Helm, who has been at Du Sable for twenty-five years, told 
me one morning, "Historically, this has been the stepping
stone to the black middle class--from poverty to the middle class. But 
we're no longer working with the same population. The people we're getting 
now, sixty-eight percent come from Robert Taylor Homes [a massive housing 
project across the street]. We have a fifty-one percent dropout rate. The 
reasons are legion; pregnancy is the biggest. [Du Sable became famous last 
year because its clinic began to dispense birth control to students. ] 
There's one gang here, the Disciples. We do not have gang problems in the 
building. We've been very lucky. We're pretty much in control of the 
building. They understand turf. This turf is ours. We know who the gang 
leaders are, we do talk to them, and we do have an understanding."<P>
The overwhelming majority of Du Sable parents live within two blocks of 
the school, but the PTA, called Parents United to Save Du Sable, has just 
fifteen members, and it exists only because of the efforts of an energetic 
mother named Brenda Holmes. In 1982 it didn't have any members. Only 60 
percent of the parents come in to sign their children's report cards, 
which is a three-times-a-year duty. Of the 800 boys at Du Sable, as many 
as a hundred are former inmates of a home for juvenile criminals.<P>
One of the classes I went to at Du Sable was an introductory English class 
made up of fourteen- and fifteen-year-old students who read at between the 
third- and the sixth
grade level. The teacher, Anthony Eirich, a big, energetic man, was 
teaching Julius Caesar. "'And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you 
what great events have taken place today.' See, he's saying, 'What's 
happening?' Remember when we had a fighter named Cassius?" No response. 
"Cassius Clay."  He went around the class asking the kids to read lines 
out loud. Some did pretty well, but a couple obviously couldn't read at 
all. One wouldn't even open his book when Eirich asked him to read. "Why 
doesn't he like Cassius--because he's what?" Eirich said.<P>
One kid called out, "Fat!"<P>
"No, he's lean and hungry. Cassius is smart. What wouldn't the 
slavemasters let the slaves do?"  No response. "Go to school! Can Vrdolyak 
roll over Mayor Washington?"  A chorus of nos. "Why not? Because he's 
smart! Look at Ebony. Forty years of progress. People speaking their mind. 
Cassius thinks too much. Julius Caesar was a famous man. See, Doctor King, 
they'll be writing plays about him one day."<P>
In another English class, while the students were busy copying the 
definitions of words out of the dictionary, the teacher, Gwendolvn Jones, 
showed me some homework she had graded A. The students were asked to 
summarize famous short stories. One was Hemingway's "A Clean, Well-Lighted 
Place":  "He old man is a deaf man who is tiring to make a living."  "He 
don't cares about anything but his self.... When the clock hits 3 o'clock 
he get very mad."  "He tries to kill his self by hanging his self by 
rope."  On Poe's "The Tell-Tale Heart": "He don't want to kill the old 
man.... When he do kill him cuts off the head."<P>
Jones showed me the TAP (Test of Aptitude and Proficiency) reading scores 
for the class, which rank them by national percentile. Most were in the 
30s; the lowest was 4; but one was 92. I asked to meet that last student, 
and Jones called her over. Her name was Lorese Lewis. She didn't live in 
the Robert Taylor Homes: she lived in a two-parent home, and her father 
worked. It was my strong impression that the gap between her and the other 
kids was one of sociological conditions much more than of basic 
intelligence.<P>
The usual feeder school for Du Sable is the Beethoven School, which is in 
the middle of the Robert Taylor Homes. As with other schools in the area, 
its enrollment is dropping rapidly, down from 1,400 in 1977 to 900 today. 
Its budget, linked to enrollment, is dropping too, but it is still 
generous. Sue Fowlkes, the principal. told me, "My total budget in '85 was 
three-point-two million. In the early eighties additional funds were 
channeled into the school as a result of a desegregation decree. It was 
felt that otherwise our low achievement levels would never go up. But they 
have not gone up with more money. The scores fluctuate up and down. Up 
through third grade we're running about six to eight months below median. 
In the middle grades it's a year, a year and a half. In seventh and eighth 
it's at least a year and a half or maybe more. The discipline problems 
start in the primary grades. Every now and then a kid will start acting 
out in the first grade-
hitting the next child. I start to see gang signs with around fourth or 
fifth graders. In second and third grade you may see them calling out the 
gang names on the playground. Pregnancy generally starts in the eighth 
grade. This year"--and it was only three months into the school year when 
we talked--"I'm running five."<P>
Of the students who manage to get as far as high school graduation perhaps 
half will go on to college, but most of these will attend a nearly all 
black two-year community college in Chicago. The transfer rates from the 
community colleges to four-year colleges is very low--at the one with the 
lowest rate, Malcolm X College, on the West Side, only 5.8 percent of the 
students go on to a four-year college. Most of these students attend 
Chicago State, which is 80 percent black and has a de facto open 
admissions policy. By far the most common choice of career for its 
graduates is education (Chicago State began as a teacher's college), and 
most of those who become teachers go to work in the Chicago public 
schools.<P>
Housing projects in the ghettos, like schools, have such a terrible 
reputation today that it is easy to forget that as recently as a 
generation ago there was an aura of hope around them. Even the Robert 
Taylor Homes, which were meant to contain the tide of black migrants from 
the South inside the traditional ghetto (an interstate highway runs along 
their western border and the old ghetto abuts the other three sides), were 
opened in a spirit of some optimism. For years reformers had believed in 
Le Corbusier's precept that high-rise housing built in "superblocks" with 
no through streets would be the ideal form of urban life. More 
prosaically, the Robert Taylor Homes replaced an old black lower-class 
strip of shanties and junkyards with clean, modern, well-constructed 
buildings that had reliable plumbing and heating. Even today the 
apartments there, though spartan, are pretty nice. Almost from the start, 
however, the Robert Taylor Homes had problems. The reason is that they 
were designed and filled according to what now looks like a perfect recipe 
for sociological disaster: large-family apartments in high-rises, and 
little or no screening for residents.<P>
In its early days public housing was in practice barred to the underclass. 
When the first black public-housing project in Chicago, the low-rise Ida 
B. Wells Homes, on the South Side, opened in 1941, single-parent families 
were excluded as a matter of policy. Beyond that, as Devereux Bowly, Jr., 
wrote in The Poorhouse, a history of subsidized housing in Chicago, "An 
elaborate investigation was made of Chicago Housing Authority applicants 
that included: 1) an office interview by a social worker, 2) employment 
verification, 3) check for a police record, 4) home visit by an 
investigator, and 5) scoring on a CHA formula giving preference to 
applicants in substandard apartments with insufficient income to get good 
housing on the private market."  It is common in Chicago to meet 
successful blacks in their late thirties and early forties who spent part 
of their childhood in the projects.<P>
In the mid-fifties, after the reformist director of the CHA, Elizabeth 
Wood, was forced out and replaced by a retired Army general named William 
B. Kean, the CHA began to de-emphasize screening. At the same time, it was 
becoming committed to high-rise buildings, to large-family apartments, and 
to building only in black ghettos. J. S. Fuerst, a professor at Loyola 
University who worked at the CHA in those days, says, "You can't put four 
thousand units in a place. And if you do, you can't suck it with the most 
troubled families. But Elizabeth Wood left, and General Kean said, 'Oh, 
no, it's got to be first come, first served.' And then they proceeded to 
accept people twenty years old, with three, four, five kids, and no 
husband."  In the Robert Taylor Homes the buildings that were completed 
first are still, twenty-five years later, considered the best, because 
there was more screening. The ones completed last, and filled using 
virtually no screening, are the worst. As in the ghetto as a whole, so in 
the projects: where they became all lower class and cut off from the rest 
of society, everything fell apart.<P>
Ron Gate, a freelance writer and former radio reporter who grew up in the 
Taylor Homes (he credits Luke Helm, at Du Sable, with motivating him to 
get out), was an example of the unscreened Taylor tenant. He is one of 
nine children who in the early sixties were living with their grandmother 
in a house on the West Side. Their mother had severe psychological 
problems (once she was found wandering aimlessly down the street, wrapped 
in a bedsheet), and left the family. Later the family was evicted from the 
house and for a while lived at the Salvation Army. From there they moved 
to the Robert Taylor Homes. Tate doesn't know where either of his parents 
or any of his brothers and sisters are today, and he doesn't know anything 
about his parents' families in Mississippi.<P>
One day Date took me back to his old building in the Taylor Homes. Though 
turnover there is high, a few of his friends were still around. The male 
contemporaries of his that I met were all unemployed or working odd jobs, 
and invariably they asked him if he knew where there were any good jobs. 
His female contemporaries were all single mothers, or single and 
pregnant.<P>
The worst part of daily life in the Taylor Homes is the constant crime and 
fear of crime. In a typical four-week period last year seventy-nine 
felonies and one hundred misdemeanors were reported there--far fewer than 
the real number of crimes, because in the projects the gangs are more 
powerful than the police and are known to retaliate against informers. 
Sergeant Leroy O. Grant, a police-community liaison officer with the 
Chicago Police Department's public-housing unit, which has its 
headquarters in the Taylor Homes, told me, "Once, a mother wouldn't 
prosecute a rape of her fourteen-year-old because of fear of retaliation. 
I don't know if that happens in any other place in the world. But around 
here, if somebody knocks on your door at four in the morning to say 'Don't 
go to court,' there's no man to answer."<P>
I got a look at what they were talking about one night when I was with two 
policemen from the Second District, which includes the Taylor Homes. There 
was a report of a shooting in a small apartment building. Inside the 
apartment from which the call to the police had come were four boys in 
their late teens, two girls, two small children, and an old woman in a 
wheelchair. A coat lay in the bathtub with hot water running over it, 
forming reddish pools in the tub. One of the boys was shot in the wrist. 
His story was that he had been standing on the front steps of the building 
and was shot by a stranger in a passing car. Everybody had a slightly 
different version of the incident, always skimpy on the details. "Who do 
you run with, man?" one of the policemen asked the boys. "The Ds."  The 
policemen took the boy who was shot to the hospital, where, tight-lipped 
and grimacing in pain, he refused to file a complaint against anyone or to 
say anything else about what had happened.<P>
There have always been high crime rates in black ghettos, and a casualness 
about them in the rest of society. In the early years of this century the 
black ghetto in Chicago, like those in many cities, was the prostitution 
and gambling center, and it is courthouse lore that when a black kills 
another black it is a "misdemeanor murder."  Police foot patrols, which do 
seem to reduce crime, are intermittent: the corridors of the Tavlor Homes 
are "visually checked" (a cursory patrol) daily and thoroughly patrolled 
twice a week. The Second District has four men on foot patrol, but only 
during the day and only in the commercial strips.<P>
There's ample evidence in the ghetto to support the liberal theory that 
poverty and unemployment cause crime, and also for the conservative theory 
that lax punishment causes it. In Chicago in 1985 there were 277,000 
crimes serious enough to be listed in the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation's Uniform Crime Report. Because Illinois doesn't keep 
"offender-based statistics," which track criminals from arrest through 
prison, it is impossible to say exactly how many of these crimes were 
punished, but it was certainly a small fraction. The chance that a 
criminal will get away with it in Chicago, assuming he is not a murderer 
or a rapist, is thought to be somewhere between 90 and 95 percent. And 
these are the odds after an attempt was made to increase punishment: in 
1978 the Illinois legislature instituted mandatory minimum six-year 
sentences, without parole, for major crimes other than murder. The law has 
had no dramatic effect on the crime rate. The hiring of many new black 
policemen in the seventies, as the result of a court order, did not affect 
the crime rate either, though it is rare today to hear the police 
described as racist. In the vicinity of the Robert Taylor Homes crime has 
dropped in the past couple of years, but the police attribute this to the 
depopulation of the area. Nobody in the ghetto has a sense that any kind 
of reform of legal procedure would significantly reduce crime.<BR>
<P>
<br><p>
<font size=4><b>IV. Ways Out of the Ghetto</font></b><P>
Discussions in Washington about how to overcome the problems of ghettos 
through national policy-making tend to flit almost randomly in and out of 
relevance to real ghetto life. But they cannot be dismissed. Ghettos are a 
national problem, and aside from continuing to change on their own, they 
will change because of what happens next in government.<P>
A number of ideas about improving ghettos have been put forward, but two 
have particular momentum right now: workfare and self-help. Both are 
conservative causes of long standing that, because of the tenor of the 
times, are being taken seriously by liberals, too.<P>
Workfare means tying government welfare benefits to work by the 
recipients. It is an old idea, dating back at least to the workhouses 
built for the "undeserving poor" of early-nineteenth-century England. The 
philosophical justification for workfare is that it is wrong for anyone to 
get money from the government without doing something in return; the 
practical justification is that welfare dependency does exist, as almost 
anybody who lives in a ghetto will tell you, and something should be done 
to guard against it. Ten years ago workfare was routinely dismissed as 
"slavefare."  Now thirty-nine states have some form of work program for 
welfare recipients. These range, to cite the two best-known examples, from 
Massachusetts's program, which requires signing up but no further 
participation, to California's brand-new system, which actually penalizes 
welfare recipients for not working or joining a training program.<P>
It is a natural guess that the comprehensive study of the welfare system 
that President Reagan commissioned earlier this year might end with a 
recommendation for a national workfare program--for example, all welfare 
recipients except mothers with children under school age might be required 
to work in order to receive benefits. National workfare won't happen, 
however because it would conflict with a deeply held conservative 
principle: that welfare policy should be made by the states or, if 
possible, by local governments. The Administration will probably propose 
giving welfare grants to the states and letting them make their own 
policy, with a strong hint that workfare is the path of virtue. "I don't 
believe it's possible for the federal government to run a workfare 
program," says Robert B. Carleson, who was the architect of President 
Reagan's reform of the California welfare system and has been consulted on 
the welfare-reform study. "The country is too big, with too many 
variations in the labor market. Detailed federal regulations won't work 
for New York City and rural Idaho and Puerto Rico at the same time."  In 
1981 the Administration succeeded in rescinding a federal ban on state 
workfare programs--Carleson, then working in the White House, spearheaded 
the effort. It is possible that the big northeastern states, which have 
the worst ghettos, will decide against mandatory workfare programs if 
given the choice, and the system will stay essentially the same as it is 
now.<P>
The new self-help movement is essentially a renascence of the old Booker 
T. Washington creed, minus the acceptance of legal segregation. Its main 
proponents are conservative black intellectuals outside the old-line elite 
black national leadership: Glenn Loury; Robert Woodson, of the National 
Center for Neighborhood Enterprise, in Washington; Thomas Sowell, of the 
Hoover Institution, at Stanford University; Walter Williams, of George 
Mason University, in Fairfax, Virginia. Self-help proponents believe that 
poor blacks have been crippled by the habit of looking to government for 
salvation and that they need to develop a tradition of self-reliance, 
perhaps through small-scale entrepreneurship. They would have the 
government and the black leadership promote self-help not by passing 
legislation and spending money but by pointedly refusing to do these 
things, and talking about values instead.<P>
Among the many other current ideas about policies for the ghettos two 
deserve mention. One, which in any Democratic Administration would receive 
more attention than it does now, is the classic liberal solution: trying 
to achieve full employment and creating special job-training and 
public-service employment programs in the ghettos. A working ghetto 
population would mean less crime and less out-of-wedlock childbirth. The 
other idea is conservative in origin: creating enterprise zones in the 
ghettos--small and nearly libertarian states that would have radically 
lower levels of taxation and regulation than the rest of the country, and 
would produce many jobs. Enterprise zones, like liberal suggestions for 
policy, are supposed to help the ghettos by reducing unemployment.<P>
None of these solutions takes as a given the idea that the ghettos have a 
separate, self-sustaining culture. Therefore none has the goal of wresting 
people in the ghettos from the grip of the culture. Even the self-help 
movement, one of whose axioms is the importance of culture in shaping 
behavior, promotes ideas like the privatization of housing 
projects--implying that the ghettos can be made to function as real 
communities. The evidence of black success so far, however, seems to 
indicate that the best hope for people in the ghettos lies in their 
establishing some link to the outside world.<P>
Both of the most pressing problems--unemployment and out-of-wedlock 
childbearing--illustrate how difficult it will be to heal the ghettos 
without taking on cultural issues directly. More than twenty years ago 
Kenneth Clark wrote of Harlem. "If all its residents were employed it 
would not materially alter the pathology of the community."  The statistic 
that best shows how pathology has outrun unemployment is the rate of 
labor-force participation--a statistic that includes not only those 
working but also the unemployed who have looked for work during the past 
month. The rate of labor-force participation for black teenage boys fell 
from 60 percent in 1940 to 36 percent in 1970, a fall too great to be 
accounted for by just unemployment or by the increasing proportion of 
black teenagers in school. There was a sharp drop in teenage labor-force 
participation in the ghettos in the late sixties, when national 
unemployment was quite low.<P>
There is some evidence that participation in the labor force does increase 
when more jobs become available. In 1980 Houston, which then had a very 
low unemployment rate and many unskilled blue-collar jobs, had a 
labor-force participation rate for all blacks that was 13 percentage 
points higher than Chicago's. And the percentage of households made up of 
single mothers was lower in Houston, which might indicate a correlation 
between more jobs for men and less out-of-wedlock childbearing.<P>
But today a national boom, and even a labor shortage, is under way in 
unskilled, low-paying, non-industrial jobs. This is bad news for 
steelworkers but should be good news for black teenagers, as it has been 
for the new wave of immigrants from foreign countries. The standard 
argument about why the labor shortage has not affected labor-force 
participation in the ghettos is that most of the jobs are in the suburbs, 
and that kids today watch TV and see a swank way of life that makes 
working for "chump change" seem pointless to them. But these kids' parents 
and grandparents saw the sweet life at much closer range, because they 
often worked inside rich white people's houses in the South, and still 
many were motivated enough to move hundreds of miles away, for jobs 
slaughtering cattle.<P>
A fundamental reason that so many unmarried teenagers have children in the 
ghetto today seems to be that having them has become a custom--a way of 
life. The story I heard over and over from teenage mothers was that their 
pregnancies were not accidental. Their friends were all having babies. 
Their boyfriends had pressured them into it, because being a father--the 
fact of it, not the responsibility--is a status symbol for a boy in the 
ghetto. Welfare does provide an economic underpinning for out-of-wedlock 
childbearing, but it is rare to hear about a girl who had a baby just to 
get on welfare. Out-of-wedlock childbearing in ghettos existed before 
there was any welfare. It is the aspect of life in the ghettos over which 
the people there have the most control, and it will be the last and 
hardest thing to change. It is today by far the greatest contributor to 
the perpetuation of the misery of ghetto life.<P>
Although the problems of the ghettos seem to resist economic solution, 
they do seem to respond to the imposition of a different, and more 
disciplined, culture. People who joined the Army or the Marines right 
after high school credit the decision with getting them out of the 
ghettos. The Black Muslims, in their heyday, were widely respected in the 
ghettos for being the only people who could turn around prostitutes and 
heroin addicts, and they accomplished this through severe dress codes, 
strictures on drinking, smoking, sex, and diet, and a round-the-clock 
regimen of work. In Dark Ghetto Kenneth Clark proposed, somewhat 
apologetically, establishing a paramilitary "cadet corps" in Harlem, which 
he said would be valuable because of "the relative ease with which 
uniforms, disciplined organization, and regulations can be used to bolster 
the self-esteem of young people."<P>
In the Chicago ghetto today the only institutions with a record of 
consistently getting people out of the underclass are the parochial 
schools. They pay their teachers much less than what public-school 
teachers are paid, but they can screen their applicants, their principals 
can hire and fire, and they can and do impose many rules on both the 
students and their parents. (Ghetto public "magnet" schools that are 
allowed to screen are also successful.) Father George Clements, the pastor 
of the Holy Angels Catholic Church, describes the regimen at its 
elementary school this way: "We have achieved honors as an academic 
institution above the national norm in all disciplines. We bear down hard 
on basics. Hard work, sacrifice, dedication. A twelve
month school year. An eight-hour day. You can't leave the campus. Total 
silence in the lunchroom and throughout the building. Expulsion for 
graffiti. Very heavy emphasis on moral pride. The parents must come every 
month and pick up the report card and talk to the teacher, or we kick out 
the kid. They must come to the PTA every month. They must sign every 
night's homework in every subject. They must come to Mass on Sundays. They 
must take a required course on the Catholic faith. The kids wear uniforms, 
which are required to be clean, pressed, no holes. We have a waiting list 
of over a thousand, and the more we bear down, the longer the list 
gets."<P>
Programs based on the idea of making the ghettos bloom again as 
communities--in other words, creating a new, healthy, indigenous culture 
there--should be regarded with extreme skepticism. Enterprise zones would 
certainly do no harm, but it is hard to believe that even with tax relief 
employers would want to locate where crime rates are so high. Turning 
housing projects over to their residents might foster pride, but it would 
also lead to physical deterioration unless there were heavy subsidies--in 
the Robert Taylor Homes the tenants' rent doesn't even cover the heating 
bill. Several black leaders, including at one extreme Louis Farrakhan, 
favor some form of black economic nationalism, in which people in the 
ghetto would trade only with black firms, in the supposed manner of other 
immigrant groups. Even if such a nation came into being, it would be a 
pathetically poor one, because the black middle class wouldn't join--it is 
already too reliant on the national economy. Community development is the 
most appealing idea of all. Everybody knows a story of a great teacher or 
organizer who made ghetto kids blossom through pure love and 
encouragement. The trouble is that such people are one in a million and 
they cannot be legislated into existence. The programs in the ghetto that 
work best on a mass scale--most notably Project Head Start, the one 
poverty program widely acclaimed as a success, which starts giving special 
instruction to children at a very early age--represent not the ghetto's 
taking care of its own but an intervention by the mainstream culture.<P>
The best solution for the ghettos would be one that attacks their cultural 
as well as their economic problems, and that takes place away from the 
ghettos. One such idea would be to bring back the Work Projects 
Administration. The original WPA was a big success in the ghettos. In 1940 
in Chicago 19 percent of the black male labor force was working for the 
WPA, and this seems to have helped prevent an unmanageable underclass from 
developing at a time of catastrophic unemployment; the WPA did function as 
a conduit into real jobs. In Black Metropolis Drake and Cayton wrote, 
"During the Depression years an increasingly large number of Negroes were 
absorbed into the Federal and State Civil Service.... [M]any of these 
received their first contact with white-collar work on various WPA 
projects."  The wartime boom seems effortlessly to have absorbed the WPA 
workers, as well as many people who were on welfare.<P>
A new federal program like the WPA would create jobs where workfare 
programs only require people to find them. It could pay workers less than 
the minimum wage, so that private employment would always be more 
appealing. The work it would do would be outside the ghettos, like 
repairing highways and operating word processors; this would require, 
however, overcoming the union opposition that has kept most government 
jobs programs confined to make-work within the ghetto. Some people now on 
welfare would be required to join the program or get a job--for instance, 
single people, and parents whose children are old enough to get home from 
school and be on :heir own for a couple of hours. Welfare benefits would 
have to be adjusted nationally to make the incentives come out right, but 
that probably should be done anyway.<P>
The great advantage of such a program is that it would enter the lives of 
ghetto kids when they were eighteen or nineteen and would affect them at a 
time when most still feel more hopeful than resigned, even if some have 
been overwhelmed by the traumas of growing up in the ghetto. It would not 
have the explosive potential to rend the fabric of adult life, the way 
busing and the scatter-siting of housing projects have done, but it would 
take the people involved out of the ghetto culture, one big step closer to 
the national mainstream. (Ideally, the program would be combined with a 
universal national-service requirement for young people that would bring 
many middle-class kids to the neo-WPA too.) It would be expensive, though 
not unrealistically so if it became a conduit to private jobs and 
supplanted welfare payments for many people. And it is not a wacky scheme 
requiring a departure from the whole American political system; it is 
something that America as already done once. It worked and, just as 
important, it is widely remembered as having worked.<P>
No matter what the specific policies adopted by this or the next 
Administration, one issue will substantially determine their success or 
failure. Once it was the simplest of all issues in race relations, and now 
it is one of the stickiest: integration. Ethnically homogeneous industrial 
societies can sustain high unemployment rates and operate extremely 
generous welfare systems, rich in dependency incentives, without creating 
an underclass. (And when an immigrant group that is looked down upon comes 
into such a society-- West Indians in Britain, Turks in West Germany--the 
first signs of an underclass appear.) The single overriding factor in the 
creation of the American ghettos is racial prejudice. The ghettos could 
not have developed their strongly self-defeating culture in the heart of 
urban America during the height of the postwar boom if the people who 
lived in them were of the same color as most of our society. The ghettos 
are the product of many generations of complete segregation from the 
neighborhoods, educational institutions, economy, and values of the rest 
of the country.<P>
The most invisible of all the ghetto's ills is the sense of racial 
inferiority that develops there. The endless references in the black 
official culture to pride and beauty, which to whites may seem to be 
obvious points not requiring constant restatement, can be explained only 
by the hold that their opposites, shame and ugliness, had on the minds of 
blacks for years. John H. Johnson, the publisher of Ebony, was asked on 
its fortieth anniversary how he would like to be remembered. He said, "I 
hope future historians will say that we changed the negative image black 
people had of themselves."<P>
The feeling is widespread among blacks that whites will always treat them 
as inferiors and that they will inevitably have to struggle against 
internalizing this attitude and turning it into self-hate and failure. 
Thus the appeal of keeping apart is very strong. (It is for many whites, 
too--for different reasons, of course.) In the black underclass and among 
blacks thinking about helping the underclass, the pull toward separatism 
is especially powerful--there is a feeling that any first foray into the 
wider world is likely to fail and that any such failure would be 
crippling.<P>
The separatist path, though, often begins by looking in ghetto life for 
sources of pride, and, given the suite of ghetto life, this is dangerous. 
It leads to ennobling what people should be escaping, so that whatever 
pride is generated is misdirected toward staying put. Separatism doesn't 
work in the long run--immigrants do stick together in the early stages, 
but after that the road to success is through assimilation into the fluid 
national mainstream. The self-loathing that every ethnic American knows as 
the underside of assimilation is much more corrosive for blacks than it 
has been for others. If the price of expunging this feeling is staying in 
the ghettos and giving up on trying to enter ordinary working life, 
however, it is much too high. People don't like living in ghettos. They 
want to get out. Society should be pushing them in that direction. 
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1986 by Nicholas Lemann.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
The Atlantic Monthly; July 1986; The Origins of the Underclass.
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B10-44</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA091-000972-B043-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.theatlantic.com:80/atlantic/election/connection/healthca/relman.htm 205.216.101.132 19970117195945 text/html 31884
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Enterprise/2.0a
Date: Fri, 17 Jan 1997 19:59:08 GMT
Accept-ranges: bytes
Last-modified: Wed, 03 Apr 1996 00:04:19 GMT
Content-length: 31678
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head> 	

<title>
What Market Values Are Doing to Medicine
</title>
</head>

<body bgcolor=ffffff><p>

<p>
<a name="top">			<!--REFERENCE POINT; TOP OF PAGE-->
<center>


						<!--HEADER GRAPHIC-->
						
<a href="../../../images/headbar.map">
<img src="../../../images/headbar.gif" ISMAP width=480 height=100 border=0 alt="The Atlantic Monthly">
</a>


</center>


<p>

<font size=4>March 1992</font><p>



						<!--TITLE-->

<h1>

<center>

What Market Values Are Doing to Medicine

</center></h1> 

<p>



<center><font size=4>by Arnold S. Relman, M.D.</font></center>
<p>
<pre>

</pre>
<p>

						<!--UNDERLINE-->
						
<blockquote>
	<i><font size=4>The former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine fears 
that his profession has lost its ethical way. Doctors, he argues, are not, 
and should not be, businessmen, and yet financial and technological 
pressures are forcing more and more of them to act like businessmen, with 
deleterious consequences for patients and for society as a whole</i></font><p>
	
	
	<pre>
	
	</pre>
	
	<font size=5>F</font>rom its earliest origins the profession of medicine has steadfastly held 
that physicians' responsibility to their patients takes precedence over 
their own economic interests. Thus the oath of Hippocrates enjoins 
physicians to serve only "for the benefit of the sick," and the 
oft-recited prayer attributed to Moses Maimonides, a revered physician of 
the twelfth century, asks God not to allow "thirst for profit" or 
"ambition for renown" to interfere with the physician's practice of his 
profession. In modern times this theme has figured prominently in many 
medical codes of ethics. The International Code of the World Medical 
Organization, for example, says that "a doctor must practice his 
profession uninfluenced by motives of profit." And in 1957, in its newly 
revised Principles of Medical Ethics, the American Medical Association 
declared that "the principal objective of the medical profession is to 
render service to humanity." It went on to say, "In the practice of 
medicine a physician should limit the source of his professional income to 
medical services actually rendered by him, or under his supervision, to 
his patients."<P>
Such lofty pronouncements notwithstanding, the medical profession has 
never been immune to knavery and profiteering. And, particularly in the 
days before biomedical science began to establish a rational basis for the 
practice of medicine, the profession has had its share of charlatans and 
quacks. Still, the highest aspiration of the medical profession--sometimes 
honored in the breach, to be sure--has always been to serve the needs of 
the sick. And that has been the basis of a de facto contract between 
modern society and the profession.<P>
What are the terms of this contract? In this country, state governments 
grant physicians a licensed monopoly to practice their profession and 
allow them considerable autonomy in setting their educational and 
professional standards and their working conditions. The professional 
education of physicians is heavily subsidized, because tuition, even in 
the private medical schools, does not nearly cover the costs of educating 
medical students. Furthermore, the information, tools, and techniques that 
physicians use to practice their profession are usually developed through 
publicly supported research. Finally, hospitals provide physicians with 
the facilities and personnel and often even the specialized equipment they 
need to treat their hospitalized patients, thus relieving doctors of many 
of the kinds of overhead costs that businessmen must pay. Physicians have 
enjoyed a privileged position in our society, virtually assuring them of 
high social status and a good living. They have been accorded these 
privileges in the expectation that they will remain competent and 
trustworthy and will faithfully discharge the fiduciary responsibility to 
patients proclaimed in their ethical codes.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN MEDICAL PRACTICE AND COMMERCE</B><P>
Now, if this description of a contract between society and the medical 
profession is even approximately correct, then clearly there are important 
distinctions to be made between what society has a right to expect of 
practicing physicians and what it expects of people in business. Both are 
expected to earn their living from their occupation, but the relation 
between physicians and patients is supposed to be quite different from 
that between businessmen and customers. Patients depend on their 
physicians to be altruistic and committed in advising them on their 
health-care needs and providing necessary medical services. Most patients 
do not have the expertise to evaluate their own need for medical care. The 
quality of life and sometimes life itself are at stake, and price is of 
relatively little importance, not only because of the unique value of the 
services rendered but also because patients usually do not pay out of 
pocket for services at the time they are received. Although most 
physicians are paid (usually by the government or an insurance company) 
for each service they provide, the assumption is that they are acting in 
the best interests of patients rather than of themselves. A fact that 
underscores the centrality of the patient's interests is that advertising 
and marketing in medical practice were until very recently considered 
unethical.<P>
In contrast, in a commercial market multiple providers of goods and 
services try to induce customers to buy. That's the whole point. Competing 
with one another, businesses rely heavily on marketing and advertising to 
generate demand for services or products, regardless of whether they are 
needed, because each provider's primary concern is to increase his sales 
and thereby maximize his income. Although commercial vendors have an 
obligation to produce a good product and advertise it without deception, 
they have no responsibility to consider the consumer's interests
-to advise the consumer which product, if any, is really needed, or to 
worry about those who cannot afford to buy any of the vendors' products. 
Markets may be effective mechanisms for distributing goods and services 
according to consumers' desires and ability to pay, but they have no 
interest in consumers' needs, or in achieving universal access.<P>
In a commercial market, consumers are expected to fend for themselves in 
judging what they can afford and want to buy. "Caveat emptor" is the rule. 
According to classical market theory, when well-informed consumers and 
competing suppliers are free to seek their own objectives, the best 
interests of both groups are likely to be served. Thus, in commerce, 
market competition is relied upon to protect the interests of consumers. 
This is quite different from the situation in health care, where the 
provider of services protects the patient's interests by acting as 
advocate and counselor. Unlike the independent shoppers envisioned by 
market theory, sick and worried patients cannot adequately look after 
their own interests, nor do they usually want to. Personal medical service 
does not come in standardized packages and in different grades for the 
consumer's comparison and selection. Moreover, a sick patient often does 
not have the option of deferring his purchase of medical care or shopping 
around for the best buy. A patient with seizures and severe headache who 
is told that he has a brain tumor requiring surgery, or a patient with 
intractable angina and high-grade obstruction of a coronary artery who is 
advised to have a coronary bypass, does not look for the "best buy" or 
consider whether he really needs "top-of-the-line" surgical quality. If he 
does not trust the judgment and competence of the first surgeon he 
consults, he may seek the opinion of another, but he will very shortly 
have to trust someone to act as his beneficent counselor, and he will 
surely want the best care available, regardless of how much or how little 
his insurance will pay the doctor.<P>
Some skeptics have always looked askance at the physician's double role as 
purveyor of services and patients' advocate. They have questioned whether 
doctors paid on a fee-for-service basis can really give advice to patients 
that is free of economic self-interest. One of the most caustic critiques 
of private fee-for-service medical practice was written early in this 
century by George Bernard Shaw, in his preface to The Doctor's Dilemma. It 
begins,<P><blockquote>
     "It is not the fault of our doctors that the medical service of the 
community, as at present provided for, is a murderous absurdity. That any 
sane nation, having observed that you could provide for the supply of 
bread by giving bakers a pecuniary interest in baking for you, should go 
on to give a surgeon a pecuniary interest in cutting off your leg, is 
enough to make one despair of political humanity. But that is precisely 
what we have done. And the more appalling the mutilation, the more the 
mutilator is paid....<P>
     "Scandalized voices murmur that...operations are necessary. They may 
be. It may also be necessary to hang a man or pull down a house. But we 
take good care not to make the hangman and the housebreaker the judges of 
that. If we did, no man's neck would be safe and no man's house stable."
</blockquote><P>

Some contemporary defenders of fee-for-service evidently see no need to 
answer attacks like Shaw's. They reject the distinctions I have drawn 
between business and medical practice, claiming that medicine is just 
another market--admittedly with more imperfections than most, but a market 
nevertheless. They profess not to see much difference between medical care 
and any other important economic commodity, such as food, clothing, or 
housing. Such critics dismiss the notion of a de facto social contract in 
medical care. They assert that physicians and private hospitals owe 
nothing to society and should be free to sell or otherwise dispose of 
their services in any lawful manner they choose.<P>
<BR>
<b>THE MEDICAL INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX</b><P>
Until recently such views had little influence. Most people considered 
medical care to be a social good, not a commodity, and physicians usually 
acted as if they agreed. Physicians were not impervious to economic 
pressures, but the pressures were relatively weak and the tradition of 
professionalism was relatively strong.<P>
This situation is now rapidly changing. In the past two decades or so 
health care has become commercialized as never before, and professionalism 
in medicine seems to be giving way to entrepreneurialism. The health-care 
system is now widely regarded as an industry, and medical practice as a 
competitive business. Let me try briefly to explain the origins and 
describe the scope of this transformation.<P>
First, the past few decades have witnessed a rapid expansion of medical 
facilities and personnel, leading to an unprecedented degree of 
competition for paying patients. Our once too few and overcrowded 
hospitals are now too numerous and on average less than 70 percent 
occupied. Physicians, formerly in short supply and very busy, now abound 
everywhere (except in city slums and isolated rural areas), and many are 
not as busy as they would like to be. Professionalism among self-employed 
private practitioners thrives when there is more than enough to do. When 
there isn't, competition for patients and worry about income tend to 
undermine professional values and influence professional judgment. Many of 
today's young physicians have to worry not only about getting themselves 
established in practice but also about paying off the considerable debt 
they have accumulated in medical school. High tuition levels make new 
graduates feel that they have paid a lot for an education that must now 
begin to pay them back--handsomely. This undoubtedly influences the choice 
of specialty many graduates make and conditions their attitudes toward the 
economics of medical practice.<P>
Along with the expansion of health care has come a great increase in 
specialization and technological sophistication, which has raised the 
price of services and made the economic rewards of medicine far greater 
than before. With insurance available to pay the bills, physicians have 
powerful economic incentives to recruit patients and provide expensive 
services. In an earlier and less technologically sophisticated era most 
physicians were generalists rather than specialists. They had mainly their 
time and counsel to offer, commodities that commanded only modest prices. 
Now a multitude of tests and procedures provide lucrative opportunities 
for extra income. This inevitably encourages an entrepreneurial approach 
to medical practice and an overuse of services.<P>
Another major factor in the transformation of the system has been the 
appearance of investor-owned health-care businesses. Attracted by 
opportunities for profit resulting from the expansion of private and 
public health insurance, these new businesses (which I call the 
medical-industrial complex) have built and operated chains of hospitals, 
clinics, nursing homes, diagnostic laboratories, and many other kinds of 
health facilities. Recent growth has been mainly in ambulatory and home 
services and in specialized inpatient facilities other than acute-care 
general hospitals, in part because most government efforts to control 
health-care costs and the construction of new facilities have been focused 
on hospitals. Nevertheless, the growth of the medical-industrial complex 
continues unabated. There are no reliable data, but I would guess that at 
least a third of all nonpublic health-care facilities are now operated by 
investor-owned businesses. For example, most nursing homes, private 
psychiatric hospitals, and free-standing therapeutic or diagnostic 
facilities are investor-owned. So are nearly two thirds of the so-called 
health-maintenance organizations, which now provide comprehensive prepaid 
medical care to nearly 35 million members.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>EFFECTS ON PROVIDERS</b><P>
This corporatization of health care, coupled with increasingly hostile and 
cost-conscious policies by private insurance companies and government, has had 
a powerful and pervasive effect on the attitudes of health-care 
providers--including those in the not-for-profit sector. Not-for-profit, 
nonpublic hospitals ("voluntary hospitals"), which constitute more than 
three quarters of the nonpublic acute-care general hospitals in the 
country, originally were philanthropic social institutions, with the 
primary mission of serving the health-care needs of their communities. 
Now, forced to compete with investor-owned hospitals and a rapidly growing 
number of for-profit ambulatory facilities, and struggling to maintain 
their economic viability in the face of sharp reductions in third-party 
payments, they increasingly see themselves as beleaguered businesses, and 
they act accordingly. Altruistic concerns are being distorted in many 
voluntary hospitals by a concern for the bottom line. Management decisions 
are now often based more on considerations of profit than on the health 
needs of the community. Many voluntary hospitals seek to avoid or to limit 
services to the poor. They actively promote their profitable services to 
insured patients, they advertise themselves, they establish health-related 
businesses, and they make deals with physicians to generate more revenue. 
Avoiding uninsured patients simply adds to the problems of our underserved 
indigent population and widens the gap in medical care between rich and 
poor. Promoting elective care for insured patients leads to overuse of 
medical services and runs up the national health-care bill.<P>
Physicians are reacting similarly as they struggle to maintain their 
income in an increasingly competitive economic climate. Like hospitals, 
practicing physicians have begun to use advertising, marketing, and 
public-relations techniques to attract more patients. Until recently most 
medical professional societies considered self-promotion of this kind to be unethical, but attitudes have changed, and 
now competition among physicians is viewed as a necessary, even 
beneficial, feature of the new medical marketplace.<P>
Many financially attractive opportunities now exist for physicians to 
invest in health-care facilities to which they can then refer their 
patients, and a growing number of doctors have become limited partners in 
such enterprises--for example, for-profit diagnostic laboratories and MRI 
centers, to which they refer their patients but over which they can 
exercise no professional supervision. Surgeons invest in 
ambulatory-surgery facilities that are owned and managed by businesses or 
hospitals, and in which they perform surgery on their patients. Thus they 
both are paid for their professional services and share in the profits 
resulting from the referral of their patients to a particular facility. A 
recent study in Florida revealed that approximately 40 percent of all 
physicians practicing in that state had financial interests in facilities 
to which they referred patients. The AMA, however, estimates that 
nationwide the figure is about 10 percent.<P>
In other kinds of entrepreneurial arrangements, office-based practitioners 
make deals with wholesalers of prescription drugs and sell those drugs to 
their patients at a profit, or buy prostheses from manufacturers at 
reduced rates and sell them at a profit--in addition to the fees they 
receive for implanting the prostheses. In entering into these and similar 
business arrangements, physicians are trading on their patients' trust. 
This is a clear violation of the traditional ethical rule against earning 
professional income by referring patients to others or by investing in the 
goods and services recommended to patients. Such arrangements create 
conflicts of interest that go far beyond the economic conflict of interest 
in the fee-for-service system, and they blur the distinction between 
business and the medical profession.<P>
Not only practitioners but also physicians doing clinical research at 
teaching hospitals are joining the entrepreneurial trend. Manufacturers of 
new drugs, devices, and clinical tests are entering into financial 
arrangements with clinicians engaged in testing their products--and the 
results of those studies may have an important effect on the commercial 
success of the product. Clinical investigators may own equity interest in 
the company that produces the product or may serve as paid consultants and 
scientific advisers, thus calling into question their ability to act as 
rigorously impartial evaluators. Harvard Medical School has wisely taken a 
stand against such arrangements, but unfortunately this obvious conflict 
of interest has so far been ignored, or at least tolerated, in many other 
institutions.<BR>
Business arrangements of this kind are also common in postgraduate 
education. Respected academic clinicians are frequently hired by drug 
firms to give lectures or write articles about the manufacturers' new 
products. The assumption, of course, is that these experts are expressing 
honest and dispassionate opinions about the relative merits of competing 
products, but such an assumption is strained by the realization that an 
expert is being handsomely paid by the manufacturer of one particular 
product in a market that is often highly competitive.<P>
Similarly, drug manufacturers offer inducements to practicing physicians 
to attend seminars at which their products are touted, and even to 
institute treatment with a particular drug. In the former case the 
ostensible justification is furtherance of postgraduate education; in the 
latter it is the gathering of post-marketing information about a new drug. 
The embarrassing transparency of these subterfuges has recently caused 
pharmaceutical manufacturers to agree with the AMA that such practices 
should be curtailed.<P>
In short, at every turn in the road physicians both in practice and in 
academic institutions are being attracted by financial arrangements that 
can compromise their professional independence.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>ANTITRUST MEDICINE</b><P>
The courts have significantly contributed to the change in atmosphere. For 
many years the legal and medical professions enjoyed immunity from 
antitrust law because it was generally believed that they were not engaged 
in the kind of commercial activity that the Sherman Act and the Federal 
Trade Commission Act were designed to regulate. In 1975 the Supreme Court 
ended this immunity (Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar). It decided that the 
reach of antitrust law extended to the professions. Since then numerous 
legal actions have been taken against individual physicians or physicians' 
organizations to curb what government has perceived to be 
"anti-competitive" practices. Thus the courts and the Federal Trade 
Commission have prevented medical societies in recent years from 
prohibiting commercial advertising or marketing and from taking any action 
that might influence professional fees or legal business ventures by 
physicians.<P>
Concerns about possible antitrust liability have caused the AMA to retreat 
from many of the anti-commercial recommendations in its 1957 code of 
ethics. The latest revisions of the ethical code say that advertising is 
permissible so long as it is not deceptive. Investments in health-care 
facilities are also permissible, provided that they are allowed by law and 
disclosed to patients, and provided also that they do not interfere with 
the physician's primary duty to his or her patients. Reflecting the new 
economic spirit, a statement has been added that competition is "not only 
ethical but is encouraged." Indeed, the AMA goes even further, declaring 
that "ethical medical practice thrives best under free market conditions 
when prospective patients have adequate information and opportunity to 
choose freely between and among competing physicians and alternate systems 
of medical care." Thus an earlier forthright stand by organized medicine 
against the commercialization of medical practice has now been replaced by 
an uneasy ambivalence.<P>
Very recently, however, the AMA seems to have reconsidered its position, 
at least with respect to some kinds of entrepreneurial activity. At its 
last meeting it adopted a resolution advising physicians not to refer 
patients to an outside facility in which the physician has an ownership 
interest--except when the facility was built in response to a demonstrated 
need and alternative financing for its construction was not available. It 
remains to be seen whether this advice will be heeded and whether the AMA 
will take a similar position on other commercial practices. It will also 
be interesting to see what response this modest stand in defense of 
professional ethics will elicit from the Federal Trade Commission.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE</b><P>
Government policy has also been ambivalent. The Reagan and Bush 
Administrations have staunchly supported competition and free markets in 
medicine under the delusion that this is a way to limit expenditures. The 
White House has therefore supported the Federal Trade Commission's 
antitrust policies and until recently has resisted all proposals for 
curbing entrepreneurial initiatives in health care. But expenditures are 
not likely to be limited in a market lacking the restraints ordinarily 
imposed by cost-conscious consumers who must pay for what they want and 
can afford. And if the competing providers in such a market have great 
power to determine what is to be purchased, then their competition 
inevitably drives up expenditures and the total size of the market. In 
business, success is measured in terms of increasing sales volume and 
revenues--the last thing we want to see in the health-care system. Despite 
its preference for market mechanisms, however, the Bush Administration 
recently abandoned ideology and supported legislation to regulate 
physicians' fees and to prevent physicians from referring their Medicare 
patients to diagnostic laboratories in which they have a financial 
interest. Regulations and new legislation to provide even stricter limits 
on physicians' investments in health-care facilities are currently under 
consideration in several states--not for ethical reasons but simply as 
measures to limit health-care spending. Clearly, cost control is now the 
highest priority in public policy.<P>
Despite its recent willingness to intervene in limited ways to control 
costs generated by some of the entrepreneurial activities of physicians, 
the government has as yet shown little interest in interfering with the 
spreading commercialization of our health-care system. That should not be 
surprising, because private enterprise is now widely heralded as the 
answer to most economic problems. We hear much these days about the 
privatization of schools, highways, airports, jails, national parks, the 
postal service, and many other aspects of our society--and by this is 
meant not simply removal from government control but transfer to investor 
ownership. Business, it is said, can do a much better job of running most 
of these things than government, so why not turn them over to private 
enterprise? I do not want to debate this general proposition here, but 
medical care, I suggest, is in many ways uniquely unsuited to private 
enterprise. It is an essential social service, requiring the involvement 
of the community and the commitment of health-care professionals. It 
flourishes best in the private sector but it needs public support, and it 
cannot meet its responsibilities to society if it is dominated by business 
interests.<P>
<BR><p>
<b>WHY SHOULD THE PUBLIC CARE?</b><P>
If government is not concerned about the loss of social and professional 
values in our health-care system, should the American public care? I think 
it must. The quality and effectiveness of our medical care depend 
critically on the values and the behavior of its providers. If health care 
is not a business, then we should encourage our physicians to stand by 
their traditional fiduciary obligations, and we should enable, if not 
require, our voluntary hospitals to honor their commitments to the 
community.<P>
If most of our physicians become entrepreneurs and most of our hospitals 
and health-care facilities become businesses, paying patients will get 
more care than they need and poor patients will get less. In a 
commercialized system the cost of health care will continue to escalate 
and yet we will not be assured of getting the kind of care we really need. 
In such a system we will no longer be able to trust our physicians, 
because the bond of fiduciary responsibility will have been broken. To 
control costs, government will be driven to adopt increasingly stringent 
regulations. Ultimately health care will have to be regulated like a 
public utility, and much greater constraints will be placed on physicians 
and hospitals than are now in place or even contemplated.<P>
Our health-care system is inequitable, inefficient, and too expensive. It 
badly needs reform. The task will be arduous and the solution is far from 
clear, but I believe that the first step must be to gain a firm consensus 
on what we value in health care and what kind of a medical profession we 
want. The medical profession has held a privileged position in American 
society, based on the expectation that it will serve society's needs first 
of all. How can it hope to continue in that position if it loses the trust 
of the public? We cannot expect to solve our health-care problems unless 
we can count on the basic altruism of the profession and its sense of 
responsibility to patients and the general public welfare. American 
society and the medical profession need to reaffirm their de facto 
contract, because they will have to depend on each other as the United 
States painfully gropes its way toward a better system of health care.<P>
Physicians have the power to make health-care reform possible. They know 
the system better than anyone, and if they want to, they can use its 
resources more prudently than they do now without any loss of medical 
effectiveness. It is primarily their decisions that determine what medical 
services will be provided in each case, and therefore what the aggregate 
expenditure for health care will be. If physicians remain free of 
conflicting economic ties, and if they act in a truly professional manner, 
medical facilities will probably be used more appropriately, regardless of 
their ownership or organization. In any case, no proposed reforms in the 
health-care system can ultimately be successful without a properly 
motivated medical profession. But if physicians continue to allow 
themselves to be drawn along the path of private entrepreneurship, they 
will increasingly be seen as self-interested businessmen and will lose 
many of the privileges they now enjoy as fiduciaries and trusted 
professionals. They will also lose the opportunity to play a constructive 
role in shaping the major reforms that are surely coming.<P>
The medical profession is not likely to change its direction without help. 
The incentives that now encourage--indeed, in many cases 
require--physicians to act primarily as businessmen will have to be 
changed, and probably so will the configurations in which most physicians 
practice. In my opinion, a greater reliance on group practice and more 
emphasis on medical insurance that prepays providers at a fixed annual 
rate offer the best chance of solving the economic problems of health 
care, because these arrangements put physicians in the most favorable 
position to act as prudent advocates for their patients, rather than as 
entrepreneurial vendors of services. However, regardless of what 
structural changes in the health
care system are ultimately adopted, physicians hold the key. The sooner 
they join with government and the public in reaffirming the medical 
profession's ethical contract with society, the easier will be the task of 
reform and the greater the chance of its success.
	
</blockquote>

<hr>

<pre></pre>
<nobr>


<a href="#top">
<img src="../../../images/bt-toppg.gif" width=31 height=23 border=0 alt="Top"></a>

<a href="../../../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-home.gif" width=43 height=23 border=0 alt="Home"></a>

<a href="../home.htm">
<img src="../../../images/bt-ec.gif" width=64 height=23 border=0 alt="Election Connection"></a>

<a href="http://vws.agtnet.com/atl_find.html">
<img src="../../../images/bt-find.gif" width=61 height=23 border=0 alt="Search"></a>

</nobr>

<p>
<font size=1>
Copyright &copy; 1992 by  Arnold S. Relman.  All rights
reserved. 
<br>
"What Market Values Are Doing to Medicine";
The Atlantic Monthly, March, 1992, issue.
Volume, 269, Number 3 (pages 99-106).
</font>


</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
