<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-1</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000257-B031-102</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c39 194.10.201.200 19970108162738 text/html 2779
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 17:26:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2621
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-eeu
From: V.THURN@LINK-K.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: reg.eeurope
- - - -
townships. (...)

UNEP looks to the world community to identify and nominate
environmental advocates SO that they too can be recognized for
their efforts. Nominations can be obtained from UNEP's
Headquarters, Global 500 Roll of Honour, P.O. Box 30552,
- - - -
say the clean-up will take well into the next century. "It would
be difficult to find a radical and immediate solution," Ostrava
Mayor Evzen Tosenovsky told a group of reporters and EU
diplomats. But Tosenovsky defended work done SO far, saying that
emissions of some pollutants had fallen by up to 80 percent.
Some factories, trying to raise efficiency in the tough new
- - - -
kidding". I don't believe he was kidding, only saying this after
seeingour reaction.

What the G7 has done SO far on nuclear safety

Moscow, April 20 (Reuter) - The world's leading industrialised
- - - -
over the last five years. Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) are
meeting Russian President Boris Yeltsin in Moscow for talks on
the problems involved. The following is an account of
international efforts SO far to make ageing nuclear reactors
safer and to ensure the security of nuclear weapons and highly
dangerous material. The G7 began coordinating nuclear safety
- - - -
assistance to former Soviet republics and to Eastern Europe in
1992. None of the reactors identified as dangerous by Western
standards has been closed SO far. But the 7 nations, along with
other members of the EU, have either spent or committed more
than $1 billion in loans and grants to help improve reactor
- - - -
him that he had already agreed to this in principle at a
previous meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) rich nations. Kiev
wants more Western help and wants it faster, suggesting that the
$3 billion pledged in aid SO far will not be enough. French
President Jacques Chirac, noting that ageing reactors considered
dangerous by international standards were still operating in
- - - -
1993 to pass a ruling on their dispute related to the Danube
dam. The court will have to weigh four questions: 1.) Whether
was it legal on the part of Sloakia to unilaterally build a
SO-CALLED C variant dam; 2.) whether it was legal for Slovakia
to divert the water of the Danube; 3.) whether the 1977
Hungarian Czechoslovak treaty on the joint investment ceased to
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=39">  Article </a><hr>39/61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-2</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000257-B031-150</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.19&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108162902 text/html 87704
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 17:27:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-eeu
From: V.THURN@LINK-K.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: reg.eeurope
Subject: BUND Newsletter part 3 Environment
Date: 10 Sep 1996 08:50:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit

Osteuropa-Rundbrief BUND (Bund f³r Umwelt und Naturschutz Deutschland)
Newsletter on Environment in Eastern Europe
Teil 3: In English language / In englischer Sprache
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21 Environmentalists To Receive United Nations Environment Award

Nairobi, 29 May 1996 - The United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP) announced that it has recognized the extraordinary
contributions of 21 individuals and organizations to
environmental protection by electing them to the prestigious
ranks of its Global 500 Roll of Honour. These distinguished
environmentalists from around the world will be officially
honoured on 9 June 1996 at a special award ceremony in Istanbul,
which will be attended by the President and Prime Minister of
the Republic of Turkey as well as the Chairman of the Turkish
Parliament. The event - hosted by UNEP and the Government of
Turkey during the Habitat II Conference - is part of this year's
World Environment Day celebrations. Among the laureates who will
be recognized and/or receive their award from UNEP's Executive
Director, Ms. Elizabeth Dowdeswell, there is (...) Tatyana
Stepanenko of Russia for finding ways to limit waste dumped into
the Newa River system and the Baltic Sea. (...) In 1975, when
Tatyana Fyodorovna Stepanenko of the Russian Federation went to
work at Vodokanal, a state enterprise in St. Petersburg, she set
her sights on finding ways to limit the amount of waste being
dumped into the Newa River system and the Baltic Sea. Not only
did she find high levels of extremely polluted waste being
discharged by industry, but that many of those industries were
part of the defense complex. Her work posed enormous challenges.
Environmental protection was not high on the policy agenda and
the defense industry was not obliged to follow the few
environmental regulations in place. Tatyana Stepanenko
perservered. In the end she established an information
collection system of the industrial waste being dumped into the
water, and the findings prompted the Government to draft
regulations for industry that included supervisory measures and
a system of fees structured according to a polluter pays
principle. The goal she set out to achieve took 18 years, and
the policy she helped develop is now in force in all Russian
townships. (...)

UNEP looks to the world community to identify and nominate
environmental advocates <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> that they too can be recognized for
their efforts. Nominations can be obtained from UNEP's
Headquarters, Global 500 Roll of Honour, P.O. Box 30552,
Nairobi, Kenya, and from UNEP's regional offices. For further
information: Mr. Tore J. Brevik, Ms. Elisabeth Guilbaud-Cox UNEP
Chief, Information Coordinator, Special Events Tel: (254-2) 62
3292, Tel: (254-2) 62 3084 Fax: (254-2) 62 3692,Fax: (254-2) 62
3692 E-mail: Tore.Brevik@unep.org; Elisabeth.Guilbaud
cox@unep.org

Ecodefense! group action update, June 1996

Energy Report: Three ecodefenders are still working to prepare
huge energy report responding to the questions: what's the
renewable energy sources of Kaliningrad region, why the region
need not nuclear power, what's the alternatives to present
energy system in the region, etc. The project is started by mid
1996 and will be ended by December of 1996. It'll be first same
analysis of the energy system in the region for last 60 years.
The energy report will be unique source of information for
scientists and activists.

Environmental Education: The environmental education
coordinators, Alexandra Koroleva and Galina Kucheneva, are
running their educational program with kindergarten' children.
Three days per week they are talking with children about the
Mother-Earth, her ecosystem and teach beautiful childs how to
live in harmony with the nature. "The Green Way" program,
Alexandra prepared and implements, is working with children of
5-7 age for full year, three times per week. Yet, Alexandra is
regularly organizing the excursions and lectures for the
schoolteachers on how to implement environmental education in
the schools. A video of lessons and excursions is available. A
book describing the environmental education program is in
preperation. 

"Stop the murder of wolves" Campaign: The campaign organized
some direct actions, performances and publications in 1995. Big
critical report on Russian Law to protect the wild nature was
prepared by the activist last autumn. At present time the
campaign is working on issues how to free animals from the
zoopark. Activists are also preparing the report for the Wolf
Federation congress which will take place next autumn in
Belgium. It was also the idea in the campaign to organize the
Action Day for Wolf Protection by December 1. 

Publications: New journal on environmental education: "Igorny
Dom" (Playing House) is focused for new methodics in children'
environmental education with deep ecology elements. It was about
2000 copies of first issue which were distributed very fast. The
journal become a top educational journal in Russia. Sent your
request.

"ECODEFENSE!" Moskovsky prospekt 120-34 236006
Kaliningrad/Koenigsberg Russia telephone/fax +7 0112 437286 

Short news

by Natalia Gurushina  - Workers at the Leningradskaya nuclear
power plant in St.Petersburg resumed protest action on 22 July,
Izvestiya reported. Their demands include the payment of 25
billion rubles ($5 million) in wage arrears. The trade union
committee said that the protests will not affect the plant's
security, since the action takes place after working hours in
the station's conference hall. One of the protesters' demands
has already been met: ITAR-TASS reported on 22 July that the
plant's director had resigned.

Financial Situation In Energy Sector (Omri Daily Digest, No.
142, Part I, 24 July 1996)

by Natalia Gurushina - Fuel and Energy Minister Yurii Shafranik
said that in the first half of 1996 the sector contributed 26
trillion rubles ($53 billion) to the budget, ITAR-TASS and
KommersantDaily reported on 23-24 July. Customers' debts to fuel
and energy companies rose by 60% over the same period, reaching
179 trillion rubles (54% of the total customers' debt in
industry). Shafranik noted that high taxes have pushed domestic
prices on fuel and energy products up to 75-95% of the world
price level.

Leningradskii Oblast - A New Legislative Bill "On The Use of
Forest In Leningradskij Oblast"

represents a serious threat to forest in the region, argued
members of Greenpeace and local non-government environmental
organizations at a press conference in St. Petersburg.
Acceptance of the bill would result in the liquidation of
control over the territory by the Federal Agency of Timber and
therefore the introduction of a monopolistic right of commercial
access to that timber by the oblast administration. (Nevskoe
Vremiia, 14 May)

St. Petersburg - Fines For Pollution In The City Have Recently
Increased By 100 Percent.

The increase is the result of the necessity to increase revenues
for city construction projects to protect the environment,
according to the Direction of Environmental Protection in St.
Petersburg. The increase in fines are aimed at those enterprises
which pollute the atmosphere and groundwater. (Delovoi
Peterburg, 14 May)

Sosnovy Bor - A Restricted Safety Zone

has been established at the distance of one kilometer in the
Gulf of Finland from the water outlet from the nuclear power
plant. Boats, including pleasure and fishing, will now be banned
from entry into this restricted area. Fishermen in the area are
reported to have made particularly large catches in this area in
the past due to the warm water discharged from the plant into
the Gulf in this location. (SPb Vedomosti, May)

Aid For Nuclear Safety Declining

Moscow - Western aid for nuclear plant safety in Russia is down
20 per cent this year despite problems at the country's old
nuclear facilities, a news report said Wednesday. Gennady
Nefyodov, deputy chief of the Atomic Energy Ministry's foreign
relations department, said the decline in funds would affect
research as well as projects already under way. Russia has
received some $500 million for upgrading and repairing its
nuclear plants in the past five years (Russia have spent at
least $500 million own money for same goals during last 5 years)
, Nefyodov told the Interfax news agency. The amount slated for
1996 is 20 per cent lower than last year.

Dysentery Outbreak

Moscow - Sewage seeping into tap water in the central Russian
city of Vladimir has caused an outbreak of dysentery that sent
more than 60 people to the hospital. Few of the victims had
drunk the water without boiling it first, but had used it to
wash fruit and vegetables or to brush their teeth, Itar-Tass
reported Monday, citing a doctor with the city sanitation
department. All those hospitalized live in the same neighborhood
of Vladimir, about 160 kilometrs east of Moscow. Breaks in
sewage pipes near a new shoe factory caused sewage to seep into
water mains, the report said.

Svetogorsk, Karelia - The Giant Svetogorsk Paper Processing Plant

is being converted by its new Swedish owners to operate on
natural gas rather than oil. The gas energy source will produce
less air pollution and is more economical for the plant than oil
today, due to the high transportation costs of oil within
Russia. The plant produces much of the cardboard used in Tetra
packaging throughout Russia and the C.I.S. Improvements are also
planned at the plant in future in order to make the present
bleaching process of cardboard stock more environmentally safe.
(Vesti)

Banning Of Green Party in St. Petersburg (by V. Lvova,
Express-Chronicle Weekly News Digest)

On 27 June the Petersburg section of the "Greens" party received
a "notification" of the banning of its activity. The
notification, signed by the governor of Leningrad region
Aleksandr Belyakov, reported that from 1 August the party's
activity in Leningrad region was banned. Until now, the "Greens"
party has won  several cases with the Leningrad region
government for violating nature conservation legislation.

Some 30 cubic meter of hydrogen chloride leaked in to air 

in the Moscow scientific-production amalgamation "Syntez" on
Monday night, Itar-Tass reported (Moscow, July 2).

Russia conducts first multiple missile test: 

Vladivostok, July 1, (Itar-Tass) - The Russian Pacific fleet has
successfully carried out its first simultaneous test launch of
ballistic missiles from three nuclear submarines sailing in the
sea of Okhotsk, a spokesman told.

Ecology of Industrial Regions - Electronic Research Journal:
<a href=http://www.volna.donetsk.ua/eir/erj.>http://www.volna.donetsk.ua/eir/erj.</a> 

This new site offers current contents of environmental journals
published in the Ukraine and Russia. Information includes
contents of about ten journals with items also offered in a
topical listing. The site originates in the Ukraine which may
contribute to longer load times than expected.

Slovakia

Nuclear Power Plant Mochovce

Statement Of The Slovakian Ecological Movement "For Mother
Earth":

(...) SIEMENS has a new motto: Let's go east! The Siemens
corporation or its subsidiaries have taken part on construction
of all the nuclear power plants which were under construction in
the former western Germany. Since the disaster at the Chernobyl
NPP on April 26, 1986, there has been no additional nuclear
power plant completed in Germany. Because of this, the nuclear
operations of Siemens is only participating on only some 2.5%
the company's total budget. The managers where forced to find a
new strategy for keeping nuclear technology alive. The break of
the political system in the central and eastern Europe works
well for them; as it was expected to increase the orders to
complete and repair the Soviet designed nuclear reactors.
Mochovce NPP is a priority project for Siemens which wants to
use it as a showcase for many other nuclear reactors in the
region. Director of Siemens, Mr. Heinrich von Pierer, said it
clearly on August 9, in an interview for the Slovak radio, by
claiming that Mochovce is the reference project for some 60
reactors of the same type in the eastern Europe. In the actual
bid to complete Mochovce by the Czech Skoda company, the budget
of the safety improvements is smaller by about 40% in comparison
to the former scenario. That means that Siemens is ready to take
part on the project which will not raise Mochovce NPP to western
nuclear safety standards. It is clear that Mochovce could not
obtain the license to operate in the European Union nor in the
USA due to its lack of safety. Siemens will be misused by the
Slovak government as the garrantor of the western safety
standards; it would be impossible to find western finances for
the Slovak government otherwise. We should all boycott Siemens
products in order to pressure them to abandon the Mochovce
project. By buing any Siemens product, you've paid for Mochovce
as well! Stop Mochovce, boycott Siemens! Send a protest letter,
fax, and email to Siemens to let them know about your position
on this crucial issue. Send your statement to this adress:
SIEMENS Attn: Dr. Heinrich von Pierer WITTELSBACHERPL. 2 80333
Munchen, Germany Fax: -89- 234 42 42 Email:
roland.huegel@mchw.siemens.de. Copy this letter and send it to
them via email at the very least. It will take you mere seconds,
but you can have a tremendous impact. The European Bank for
Recontruction and Development is out of the project partialy
thanks to some 200,000 letters and cards protesting their
participation on the project.

"Dear Mr. Pierer, Siemen's corporate image is being tremendously
damaged because of your willingness to take part in the
completition of the Slovak Mochovce nuclear power plant. It is
obvious that neither your company nor any other is able to
upgrade Mochovce's safety to acceptable standrads. Mochovce
would not get the license to be oerated in the EU nor in the
USA. It would be impossible to build a Mochovce somewhere in
Munchen; do not take part in a project which would not be
acceptable in your country. Drop the double standards. It is
clear that Mochovce is not the most cost-effective method for
the Slovak energy system. There are many other options of
cheaper and more environmentally friendly energy production. By
halting your further participation on the Mochovce project, you
will contribute enormously to nuclear safety in Slovakia and the
central European countries. It may be only business for you, but
it is dirty money you want to earn. I want to let you that until
you halt your participation in the Mochovce project, I will
boycott any Siemens products. I will not buy any Osram,
Siemens-Nixdorf, and Siemens products. Stop Mochovce!
Antinuclear greetings,..."

The international campaign focuses on Germany: Parliamentary
inquires to the German Bundestag have confirmed that the
HERMES-guarantee loan to Siemens for work on Mochovce have not
yet been signed. German groups are asked to write to the four
ministeries making the decision [the economy, finance, foreign
affairs and development ministreies], with the Ministry of
Economy playing the most important rule. Non-German groups are
being requested to contact their governments to pressure Germany
not to support Mochovce and give a guarantee from Hermes. There
already exist government decisions against Mochovce [f.e. by the
Danish, Dutch, Norwegian, Turkish, Portugesse, Austrian,
Swedish, Luxemburg govts.]. Also good to point out is that
Siemens actually has a contract for upgrating the Bohunice NPP
in the Slovak republic which concludes in 1999. Almost certainly
insuring that Bohunice will not be switched off in 2000, as was
already promised. Here are the adresses:

Auswartiges Amt BM des Auswartigen Dr. Klaus Kinkel PF 1148
D-53107 Bonn.

BM der Finanzen Dr. Theodor Waigel PF 1308 D- 53003 Bonn.

BM fur Wirtschaft Dr. Gunter Rexrodt Briefpost D- 53107 Bonn.

BM fur wirtsch. Zusammenarbeit und Entwicklung, Carl- Dieter
Spranger PF 120322 D- 53045 Bonn.

Construction Status: Not long after the contract was signed,
Hydrostav, the largest construction company in Slovakia, brought
workers back from Russia and began construction work again at
Mochovce. The Russian firm Atomenergoexport plans to begin work
in the next two months [thus July]. Control and security systems
will be supplied by the French Framatome and German Siemens,
presumably work will begin when financing is secured. 42 tons of
fuel were transported from Bohunice to Mochovce in April.

Mochovce Least Cost Study Discredited: The public criticism of
EBRD project manager Blaicklok of the PHB study justifying
Mochovce was widely reported in Slovakia. A demonstration in
front of the Ministry of Economy was also widely covered in the
media. Additionaly, we are planning the re-release of the US DOE
analysis which completely discredits the study. But
unfortunately, the ministry will probably rely on this study for
new documents, it is forced to produce for the parliament.

Slovakia Democracy Under Attack: Laws continue to come into
effect which restrict the press and threaten the non-profit
sector of the country. The foundations law has been actively
opposed by many groups within the country with a recent
demonstration reaching a crowd of over 2.000. Criminal Justice
Law similar to the communist law, you can go to prison for
distributing information or critizing the Slovak state or its
policy.

AtomicLaw Rushed: It is likely that some of the financing for
Mochovce will require the completion of the atomic law, which
the government is trying to rush through. The atomic law has
many of the same deficiences as the Czech law: unrealistically
low levels of total victim compensation for an accident, serious
conflict of interest between those making decisions about waste
and those producing it, little to no public participation in
decision making etc.

For Mother Earth, Slovakia, zamatkuzem@seps.sanet.sk,
tel./fax.:-42 7 713 506


SLOWENIEN

Slovenia ecologists fail to get nuclear plant shut

By Marja Novak, Ljubljana, May 21 (Reuter) - Slovenian
environmentalists conceded defeat on Tuesday in a campaign to
secure early closure of their country's only nuclear power
plant, saying they had too little money and lacked political
support. "We didn't have money for more publicity," Leo Seserko,
spokesman for the Slovenian Ecological Movement told. "(Most)
political parties didn't support our initiative or were opposed
to it." Despite two months of campaigning, the movement only
managed to collect 2,463 signatures of the 40,000 needed to
force a referendum on the plant's premature close. Seserko said
complex bureaucratic procedures required to sign the referendum
petition were partly to blame for the small number of
signatures. The group, which was backed by international
environmental group Greenpeace, was pushing for the close of the
nuclear plant Krsko (NEK) in 10 years. It had scheduled the
initiative around the 10th anniversary of the April 1986
Chernobyl disaster, the world's worst nuclear accident, in hope
that it would encourage people to participate. The government
said early closure of NEK would hurt the nation's economy and it
would take Slovenia more than 10 years to secure alternative
sources for energy provided by the plant. "Our plan is to
abolish nuclear energy in the future, but only when other
sources of energy are available," State Secretary of Energy
Boris Sovic said. The nuclear plant, built in cooperation with
Westinghouse Electric Corp, lies about 100 km (60 miles) east of
Ljubljana and is scheduled to close in 2023. The plant, which
started operating in 1983, recently said it expected to spend
180 million marks on two new steam generators to be replaced
over the next five years. NEK is jointly owned by Slovenia and
Croatia and produces about 20 percent of the annual electricity
consumed in the two states.

EU "sabotaged" bid to close Slovenian Nuclear Power Plant

Brussels, July 4 (Reuter) - A campaign to force a referendum on
closing Slovenia's only nuclear plant was "sabotaged" by an
European Commission-backed media trip on nuclear safety,
Slovenian politician Leo Seserko said. Seserko described as "a
serious case of democratic interference" the Commission's
funding of a nuclear safety visit by Slovenian reporters to
various EU reactors, slap in the middle of a domestic campaign
for a referendum on nuclear power. "We failed to collect the
40,000 signatures. One of those reasons was this study trip,"
said Seserko. He said media coverage resulting from the trip was
biased in favour of nuclear power because of a one-sided
itinerary. A Commission official denied that the $56,000
expenses-paid trip for 15 Slovenians to nuclear power plants in
Belgium, Germany and Sweden had anything to do with influencing
efforts to call the referendum. "The objective of the visit was
to learn more about nuclear safety not whether to use nuclear
power as such. We have had dozens of these visits in the energy
sector... This was the first one which had a nuclear safety
aspect," the official told. The official would not say if the
Commission knew beforehand that the trip, which was organised by
Europe's FORATOM nuclear lobby, would coincide with the
referendum campaign. "I cannot comment on that," he said.

TSCHECHISCHE REPUBLIK

"Black Ostrava" shows other face of Czech reform

By David Stamp (Ostrava, May 24, Reuter) - A visit to Prague
reveals how much the Czech Republic has achieved economically
since the 1989 fall of communism. But a trip to the home of
Czech heavy industry, Ostrava, reveals how much the country
still has to do in cleaning up the filthy legacy of state
central planning. Few visitors experience the grime and stink of
Ostrava, the foremost Czech coal and steel city tucked away in
northern Moravia near the Polish and Slovak borders. In fact
Ostrava, a city of 330,000 people, is a much cleaner place than
it was a decade ago. All coal mines within the city limits have
been closed, along with some factories which long spewed
carcinogens over the area. But one breath of the local air,
acrid from the city's steel mills and coking plants, reminds
visitors that such environmental devastation cannot be ended in
six years. "Our area is one of the most polluted in Europe,"
said Professor Vaclav Roubicek, who runs a European Union-funded
laboratory set up at Ostrava's technical university to analyse
contaminated air, water and soil. North Moravia, notably Ostrava
and the nearby mining district of Karvina, was the cradle of the
Austro-Hungarian empire's industrial revolution in the 19th
century. Iron and steel mills sprang up near Ostrava over the
deposits of high-quality black coal, becoming the powerhouse of
the Czechoslovak republic created after World War One. "Black
Ostrava" soon grew to the factory gates and people now live
right against the local Vitkovice mills. Perhaps worst were 40
years of communism when production was worshipped and the
environment counted for little. "The environment is in a
critical state in many parts of the region, particularly in the
Ostrava and Karvina districts," said a profile of North Moravia
released by the EU. Local officials, balancing the environmental
priorities with limited budgets and unemployment considerations,
say the clean-up will take well into the next century. "It would
be difficult to find a radical and immediate solution," Ostrava
Mayor Evzen Tosenovsky told a group of reporters and EU
diplomats. But Tosenovsky defended work done <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a> far, saying that
emissions of some pollutants had fallen by up to 80 percent.
Some factories, trying to raise efficiency in the tough new
market economy, have slashed energy consumption while others are
switching to natural gas. Three out of seven coking plants,
which are among the worst polluters, have closed. Up to 75,000
jobs have gone from steel and mining in the region since 1989,
and local unemployment is almost double the admittedly low
national average of three percent. But the "Karolina" story
shows that simply closing plants is not always enough. Karolina
was a coking plant making fuel for local steel mills from coal.
It was closed a decade ago and dismantled but hidden damage
remains -- tar, coke and other toxic materials run at least 10
to 15 metres (30 to 45 feet) deep in the ground. What makes
Karolina special is that the site, now wasteland, lies in the
middle of town. "There are several hectares of the city centre
which are highly contaminated," said Mayor Tosenovsky. "Rarely
in Europe will you find such a big site in a city centre."
Tosenovsky says that under a contract with OKD, the last coking
plant in Ostrava is not due to close until 2009, although he
hopes demand from coke will dry up earlier.

ADONIS Advisory Centre for Sustainable Development in Mikulov

ADONIS has for several years been conducting innovative programs
in sustainable tourism and development. They have a close
working relationship with the administration of the Palava
Biosphere Reserve. WWF organizations in Europe have worked
closely with environmentalists in the region for many years on a
wide range of projects. For further information, contact Lad'a
Ptacek, ADONIS, Namesti 32, 692 01 Mikulov na Morave, Czech
Republic. Phone/Fax (42 625) 2855. Phone (42 625) 3239.

by Lad'a Ptacek (October 1995) - Major Accomplishments:
Institutional development. During the past four years many
environmental groups have been established in the Czech republic
and many of them continue to grow. They often employ
professional coordinators which further stabilizes the NGO
structure. There are also first signs of bottom-up networking,
joint projects between related groups, joint fundraising,
educational programs. For example, starting in January 1995,
five NGOs formed a network of ecocounselling offices.

Innovative Activities: Speaking from the limited experience of
ADONIS, I feel that our most innovative (and successful) project
is in sustainable tourism. One year later, ADONIS established a
for-profit branch to deal with projects that are profitable,
such as regional promotion and promotion of individual towns and
villages in Southern Moravia. This office should soon start to
cover a part of costs of our NGO.

Unaddressed Needs of NGOs: There is not much state support for
development of NGOs. The tax system does not encourage
sponsoring and donations to charities. Because of financial
uncertainties, it is very important to have access to diverse
sources of funding, including foreign foundations.

Major Positive Surprises: Good acceptance of our tourism project
by the regional and local authorities and people was the major
surprise. Also surprising is the extent to which it is possible
to influence development.

Major Unexpected Problems and Possible Solutions: (The following
paragraph was written before the elections held in June 1996
weakening the existing government) Lack of a consistent state
environmental policy. The recent Minister of Environment is
especially weak and, consequently, is the entire ministry. This
is very damaging to the environmental cause. This is of course
reflected in many concrete ways including public funding. A
possible solution is new elections and consistent and
constructive work on all levels. In the case of ADONIS this
means working mostly on the local and regional level. The
environment is not taken seriously by the general public. There
has been a shift in values and priorities. Right after 1989,
environmental issues were on top of the list of peoples'
priorities. Partly due to real progress in some areas (sewage
water treatment, air quality, etc.) and partly due to
unprecedented economic pressures, environmental problems seem to
be less pressing.

Major Changes Impacting Our Work Positively and Negatively:
These changes range from privatization of land, restoration of
"owners' mentality", through political changes - strong
conservatism, the uncertain position of environmental issues on
the national government's agenda to psychological tiredness of
bad news and the new demands posed by the free society. Any of
these has some good and some bad sides in respect to our work.
(WWF-US CEE Environmental Affairs Newsletter, June '96)

Kurzmeldungen:

Activists Blockade Czech Nuclear Plant: (by Jiri Pehe, (OMRI
Daily Digest No. 132, Part II, 10 July 1996) - Environmental
activists, who for several days have been demonstrating at the
Temelin nuclear power plant, entered the plant on 9 July and
smuggled out a copy of the plant's blueprint, Czech media
reported. That evening, they set off fireworks at the plant's
cooling tower. A spokesman for the activists said those actions
were to prove that the nuclear plant is insufficiently guarded.
On 8 July, police arrested about 40 activists who were
blockading plant entrances. Various ecological groups say the
plant will soon become unsafe and should be closed down.

Neue Forstgesetzgebung in Kraft getreten: (aus: Ochrana Prirody,
No.3/1996) Nach fuenfjaehrigen komplizierten Verhandlungen
zwischen Forsteigentuemern, Verfechtern oeffentlicher
Interessen, Gesetzgebern, etc. ist Anfang 1996 das neue
tschechische Forstgesetz No. 289/1995 in Kraft getreten. Es
regelt als erstmals das forstwirtschaft- liche
Ressourcenmanagement und setzt den Eigentuemern Grenzen in den
Moeglichkeiten der Waldnutzung.

Ukraine

Ukrainian President Meets With Gazprom Delegation.

by Chrystyna Lapychak (Omri Daily Digest No. 136, Part II,
16.07.96) - Leonid Kuchma met with visiting Gazprom officials to
discuss expanding business links, Ukrainian agencies reported.
The talks focused on how to improve the current system of
supplying gas to Ukraine and transporting it across its
territory to Eastern Europe. There was also discussion of the
possibilities for mutual investment in the Russian and Ukrainian
gas industries. Commentators on Ukrainian TV speculated the
visit was spurred by Russian gas and oil industry concerns that
Ukraine is seeking alternative sources of energy. They claimed
recent talks between the Ukrainian and Iraqi governments about
trading Iraqi oil for Ukrainian food supplies has made Russian
gas and oil barons nervous about losing a major customer.

TWO ACCIDENTS AT UKRAINIAN NUCLEAR PLANT KILL WORKER.

by Chrystyna Lapychak (Open Media Research Institute, 29.7.96)
Two accidents at the Khmelnytsky nuclear power plant on 25 July
killed an employee and leaked radiation inside the station,
Western and Ukrainian agencies reported the same day. The
incidents occurred as the station's only working reactor was
being tested for a planned restart since it was shut down on 20
April for maintenance. One employee sustained fatal injuries and
burns when a steam pipe burst during the testing. Several hours
later, radioactive water leaked into a nitrogen storage area
after workers failed to make a safety check. Plant managers said
radioactive contamination was limited to inside the plant and
that the leaks measured level three on the IAEA's seven-level
scale for nuclear accidents.

UKRAINE OPENS INSTALLATION TO DISMANTLE SS-19s. 

by Doug Clarke (Omri Daily Digest, No. 144, Part II, 26 July
1996) - Ukraine will open a facility on 26 July to dismantle and
"neutralize" the 130 SS-19 intermediate-range ballistic missiles
left on its territory by the collapse of the Soviet Union,
ITAR-TASS reported on 25 July. The facility is located at the
Yuzhmash plant in Dnepropetrovsk where the Soviet giant SS-18
missile was built. Sources in the Ukrainian Defense Ministry
told the agency that the facility would be able to process four
missiles per month. The U.S. provided financial support for the
project.

TSCHERNOBYL

Chernobyl: No Problems Since 1986, Officials Told

by David Stickney ("ECODEFENSE!inform", Nr. 84, May 1996) - Here
is the official press release from the Chernobyl Nuclear Power
Plant Regarding the tenth year anniversary of the Chernobyl
Disaster given by PR staff.

"For ten years since the accident, Chernobyl NNP's life has been
complicated and controversial. After the heroic phase
liquidating the aftermath, of constructing the sacophagus, of
restoration and restart of the undamaged units, of making the
new town, there followed the phase of personnel replacement.
Eight times the decision was taken and revoked to shutdown the
station. They compelled the staff to leave their Kiev
appartments and to move to Slavutich, which was built, as it was
found out, on a caesium patch. To profile themselves, many of
today's famous public and political figures, mass media were
particularly stigmatizing Chernobyl NPP and were demonstrating
negative attitude to the nuclear industry in general, calling
for immediate renunciation of nuclear power. Nevertheless the
station kept on working. The collective body of staff was
formed, safety and reliability were improved. Slavutich was
developed and equipped with services and utilities. Since the
accident, Chernobyl NPP has generated more than 127 billion kWh
of electricity of over US 5.5 billion total worth. (...) More
than $300 million have been invested in Chernobyl NPP's safety.
Safe opperation is in the hands of skilled personnel. In 1995
Chernobyl NPP produced 10 percent more electricity than in 1994,
and it had the least number of malfunctions - two per one unit
the best showing in Ukraine and the CIS. Last year 17.5 thousand
square meters of dwelling space were commisioned in Slavutich as
well as the main building of health care day center. Actually,
Slavutich is a modern town of 25,000 inhabitants. It has
developed infrastruture: telephone communication and cable
television are availible for every family. The station's staff
is committed to their duty ensuring safe operation of the and
producing electricity. The workers strongly believe in good
sense of leadership of the country and are confident of the
future."

The PR rep at the station stated that he felt that people should
not have been evacuated from local towns, and they should
return, as this is a greater injustice than the accident itself.
They constantly repeated that the area was a safe working place.
Our readings outside the reactor from our personal equipment
showed more than 660 Roentgen (Gomel 10). Slavutich is the
newest town in Ukraine, food is imported, and the standard of
living is of a western standard. The staff continually related
station's situation with their high standard of living. In fact,
the "spokesman" in a private conversation with me stated "I
don't care if the EU gave 3.1 billion to shut down the plant, if
it reduced my standard of living, I would take a machine gun to
the council and say 'up against the wall guys'... Well I'm just
kidding". I don't believe he was kidding, only saying this after
seeingour reaction.

What the G7 has done <a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> far on nuclear safety

Moscow, April 20 (Reuter) - The world's leading industrialised
nations have spent several billion dollars on trying to improve
nuclear safety in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
over the last five years. Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7) are
meeting Russian President Boris Yeltsin in Moscow for talks on
the problems involved. The following is an account of
international efforts <a name=L10004></a><a href=#L10005>so</a> far to make ageing nuclear reactors
safer and to ensure the security of nuclear weapons and highly
dangerous material. The G7 began coordinating nuclear safety
assistance to former Soviet republics and to Eastern Europe in
1992. None of the reactors identified as dangerous by Western
standards has been closed <a name=L10005></a><a href=#L10006>so</a> far. But the 7 nations, along with
other members of the EU, have either spent or committed more
than $1 billion in loans and grants to help improve reactor
safety. In addition, the G7 has pledged some $3 billion to help
Ukraine close down Chernobyl, site of the world's worst nuclear
accident a decade ago, by the year 2000. 

The U.S. has taken the lead in efforts to make sure Soviet
nuclear weapons remain firmly under control. Since 1992, it has
committed more than $1.5 billion to help Russia, Ukraine,
Belarus and Kazakhstan with the process, including transport,
storage and dismantling. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan have
agreed to give up all nuclear weapons on their soil, leaving
Russia as the sole nuclear weapons state in the former Soviet
Union. Washington has also tried to make sure bomb-grade nuclear
materials do not fall into the wrong hands, through smuggling.
In 1994, the U.S. secretly purchased 600 kg (1,323 lb) of
highly-enriched uranium (HEU) from Kazakhstan in a deal worth
$10 million. Washington has also agreed to purchase a minimum of
500 tonnes of Russian HEU over a period of 20 years, in a deal
worth $20 billion. The U.S. is paying half of the $300 million
cost of building a Russian nuclear storage site at Mayak in the
Urals. It will hold 40 percent of Russia's weapons-grade
plutonium. 

The 15-member EU has concentrated its efforts improving nuclear
safety in the civilian area: more than $500 million for the
former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe since 1991 ($400 million
to Russia and Ukraine).

Other efforts: Japan, Russia, the EU, the United States and
Russia want to prevent a "brain drain" of disaffected scientists
involved in Soviet nuclear and military affairs. In 1994, these
countries set up the International Science and Technology Centre
in Moscow. With total funding of more than $70 million, the
centre is supposed to sponsor almost 10,000 scientists in
employment projects for up to three years. There is a similar
centre in Kiev, although smaller. Last month, European and U.S.
nuclear experts agreed new efforts to help Moscow clamp down on
illicit traffic in nuclear materials. A centre at Obninsk, near
Moscow, will be opened this year to train Russian experts in
Western safety procedures. Millions more have been spent in
other bilateral efforts by major Western countries and Japan,
which is particularly concerned about the disposal of Russia's
radioactive waste. The IAEA is helping coordinate safety
efforts, technical assistance and the exchange of information.
Western energy companies are involved for upgrading nuclear
reactors.

Chernobyl Ten Years Later: The True Price Of Nuclear Power

By Renfrey Clarke (Moscow) - On April 19 this year, a week
before the tenth anniversary of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster,
leaders of the G7 group of industrialised nations met in Moscow
with the presidents of Russia and Ukraine for a two-day summit
on nuclear safety. The assembled leaders proceeded to give a
firm thumbs-up to nuclear power. (...) While reiterating an
earlier pledge to aid the shutdown of the remaining reactors at
Chernobyl, the G7 leaders had made no moves to encourage the
closure of the 13 similar RBMK-type reactors still operating in
Russia and Lithuania. (...) Skimming a wide range of
nuclear-related questions in only five hours of formal talks,
the G7 leaders never intended to debate these issues in depth.
Nevertheless, the period of the summit did see serious
discussion of nuclear safety. This took place at an alternative
Moscow summit sponsored by the US-based Natural Resources
Defense Council and by the Centre for Russian Environmental
Policy. Here, the long-term costs of the Chernobyl disaster and
the broader danger posed to humanity by the nuclear power
industry - received a thorough accounting. Ten years down the
track, speakers at the alternative summit made clear, the costs
of Chernobyl have only begun to be paid, and the suffering has
only begun to be endured. For example, cancer cases resulting
from the accident are not expected to reach their peak until the
year 2005. (...) One message that emerged clearly at the
alternative nuclear summit was that the Chernobyl disaster
released far more radioactivity than was reported at the time.
In February this year the Nuclear Energy Agency published an
assessment indicating that more than 140 million curies were
dispersed into the environment, more than three times the
initial estimate by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The
World Health Organisation recently cited a figure of some 200
times the radioactivity released in the 1945 nuclear bombing of
Japan. These conclusions are borne out by studies of chromosomal
mutation in the human population around Chernobyl. This research
shows mutation rates four to five times higher than in control
regions, a finding consistent with much heavier exposure to
radioactivity than was admitted in 1986. (...)

Is the world safer after nuclear summit?

By Nicholas Doughty (Diplomatic Correspondent, Moscow, April 21,
Reuter) - With a pledge to make nuclear safety an "absolute
priority," world leaders have promised real action to prevent
more Chernobyls and to stop more people acquiring the power of
the atomic bomb. But a combination of harsh economic realities
and political sensitivity could make it difficult to turn the
summit's fine words -- a decade after the Chernobyl disaster
-into reality. The Moscow meeting, which brought Russia and
Ukraine together with rich industrialised nations, agreed a
joint programme to tackle nuclear problems. Between them, these
countries hold most of the world's nuclear weapons and material.
"Today we took yet another step back from the nuclear
precipice," said U.S. President Bill Clinton after the summit
ended on Saturday. "We must not rest until these dangers have
been reduced, until the cloud of fear has been lifted." At the
meeting, Russia joined its Western partners for the first time
in agreeing to a complete ban on nuclear tests. Ukraine
confirmed a decision to shut down Chernobyl by the year 2000, in
exchange for several billion dollars of aid. Neither decision
could be described as radical. Russia had been expected to make
the commitment on nuclear tests for some time and there are much
more difficult problems -- involving China and India -- in
completing a test ban treaty at negotiations in Geneva.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma confirmed the closure of
Chernobyl only under pressure from Western leaders, who reminded
him that he had already agreed to this in principle at a
previous meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) rich nations. Kiev
wants more Western help and wants it faster, suggesting that the
$3 billion pledged in aid <a name=L10006></a><a href=#L10007>so</a> far will not be enough. French
President Jacques Chirac, noting that ageing reactors considered
dangerous by international standards were still operating in
Eastern Europe and former Soviet republics, said they should be
shut down if they could not be modernised. This was the line
taken at a G7 summit in Munich four years ago but the Moscow
meeting took a softer approach. The final communique said that,
while progress had been made in improving reactor safety,
"substantial progress is still required." The United States and
its European allies have spent several billion dollars on
helping with the safety of nuclear reactors and warheads to be
dismantled under arms control deals. They are unwilling to dig
much deeper into their pockets. International studies put the
cost of closing the riskiest Soviet-era reactors down as fast as
possible at around $20 billion. Russia and other countries say
they cannot afford it and that they need the energy generated.
Economic realities have left environmentalists unimpressed. "The
summit was an absolute disaster when it comes to these questions
of nuclear safety," said Joshua Handler of Greenpeace. "The fact
that they now endorse not shutting the oldest unsafe reactors
but trying to upgrade them, fix them up, is a big step backwards
for nuclear safety." "The big losers are the citizens of the
former Eastern bloc who will have to endure a higher level of
nuclear risk than their counterparts in the West," said Thomas
Cochran of the U.S. Natural Resources Defence Council. The
summit programme promised intelligence cooperation to prevent
the growing trade in nuclear materials that could be used to
make weapons, and it urged countries to stick to international
standards on safety, liability and waste dumping. There were no
pledges of extra cash from the world's rich nations to help with
these problems, despite the threat of pollution and the risks of
nuclear weapons proliferation. Existing efforts to help Russia
secure nuclear material and weapons have been far from
trouble-free, Western officials say. Moscow is sensitive about
military secrets and suggestions that it is not able to keep
full nuclear control. One of the unstated aims of the summit was
to give President Boris Yeltsin a boost at home as he prepares
for June elections, with Western leaders worried that Yeltsin
could lose to Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. For all of
these reasons, G7 leaders politely avoided singling Russia out
for any criticism on nuclear issues. But even Russia's Deputy
Nuclear Energy Minister, Nikolai Yegorov, admitted that the
problems of nuclear waste - most it from Soviet military
installations - was "close to a catastrophic situation" in some
regions.

What they said at the Moscow summit on Nuclear Safety:

Moscow, April 20 (Reuter) - Here is a selection of notable
quotes from the two-day nuclear safety summit in Moscow which
ended on Saturday: "Today we took yet another step back from the
nuclear precipice. We must not rest until these dangers have
been reduced, until the cloud of fear has been lifted." -- U.S.
President Bill Clinton. "In the years of the Cold War the atom
was a factor of division, terror, deterrence and confrontation.
Today we have a possibility of making the atom a factor of
partnership, cooperation and peace." -- Russian President Boris
Yeltsin "We are committed to give an absolute priority to safety
in the use of nuclear energy. As we approach the 10th
anniversary of the Chernobyl accident, it is our shared
objective that such a catastrophe cannot reoccur." -- the summit
communique. "The safety culture (at Chernobyl) remains
inadequate...We must consider closing down nuclear reactors
which cannot be sufficiently modernised." -- French President
Jacques Chirac. "This country is seriously polluted. We will all
die soon with such nuclear safety, and I want to raise my
daughter first. What can you expect of a country which has a
mutated two-headed eagle as its national symbol?" -- Alexander
Kotenko, 42, visiting Moscow from suburban town of Balashikha.
"Instead of a state dinner, the G7 countries should perhaps hold
a prayer breakfast. The only thing standing between us and
another Chernobyl is the grace of God." -- Tom Cochran of the
U.S. environmental organisation Natural Resources Defense
Council.


Kiev, July 1 (Reuter) - A small amount of radiation leaked out
at the Chernobyl NPP at the weekend.

Pervomaisk (South-Ukrainian Nuclear power Plant), June 1 - All
the cities in the 30 km zone around South-Ukrainian NPP are
cleaned up by disactivating substances. It's possible that
South-Ukranian Nuclear Power Plant have released a big amount of
radioactivity to the atmosphere on May 27, - special
correspondent reported from Pervomaisk, a small city is located
in 32km from the NPP. It's a tradition in Ukraine to cleanse
cities by disactivating chemicals after serious accidents with
radioactivity release from NPP, but nobody knows is it helping
anybody. It wasn't any press-release from plant or state
officials following accident days. aus: "Anti-Atom Press" N 56,
June 1996 a russian newsletter of nuclear news

ZENTRALASIEN

(sowiet nicht anders bezeichnet aus: ECOSTAN NEWS- Ecol. and
Pol. News from Central Asia, Vol. 4/Number 4, April 1, 1996 Eric
Sievers, 569 Whitney Ave. #3 New Haven, CT 06511 USA, (203)
776-5220, esievers@igc.org

The Kazakhstan Red Book

by S. Malostvolov - The Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, in its decree of March 13, 1995 (#1258), affirmed
the Status of the Red Book in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to this decree, Kazakhstan's Red Book consists of two
tomes (fauna and flora) and contains collected reports and
evidence about the condition of rare, endangered, and threatened
species of plants and animals, as well as necessary measures to
study them, restore them, and provide for their rational
utilization. The populations and environmental conditions
necessary for species restoration and genetic viability are also
established. The taking of any species listed in the Red Book is
prohibited over the entire territory of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, except in circumstances established by law. Further
species may be included in the Red Book based on established
criteria of population decrease, habitat disappearance, unsafe
changes in the environment, or other data establishing the
necessity of adopting urgent measures for the preservation and
restoration of a species. The preparation of the Red Book, and
issues regarding the inclusion and exclusion of species from it,
will be handled by two interagency commissions, one for zoology
and one for botany, the composition of which (and, later, the
decisions of which) must be approved by the government. The
management of Red Book issues is entrusted jointly to the
Ministry of Ecology and Bioresources and the National Academy of
Sciences, with the participation of other interested ministries
and agencies encouraged. (...) In what manner can this important
government document be reconciled with the hard currency hunts
on Red Book species being conducted in Kazakhstan for foreign
tourists? Unfortunately, it is necessary to reveal that the
government, in this document, does not forbid, but essentially
gives the green light to, foreign hunt tourism. Thus, in the
text of the decree, in the section discussing research,
preservation, and restoration of Red Book animals and plants,
"rational use" is listed as a definite and necessary measure.
Also in the section entitled "Means of collecting data and
developing measures for the preservation of animals and plants,"
there is a separate phrase allowing the taking and collection of
Red Book animals and plants, their nests, eggs, fruits, seeds,
parts, or products. (...) There can be only one conclusion: In
the government of Kazakhstan, there is no interest in restoring
rare, endangered, and threatened animals and plants. Rather, Red
Book animals are seen as a potential economic resource.

Appeal From Ecologists of Kazakhstan

(source: Express-Chronicle Weekly News Digest, 27/6/96) - Dear
Colleagues! A tragic event has occurred: the government has
transferred the [nature] reserves of the republic to the
Committee for the Forestry Industry. This signifies the ruin of
the reserves, since the Committee for the Forestry Industry has
shown its lack of ability and willingness to head the affairs of
reserves in the republic. A direct and conscious destruction of
the nature reserves is in progress: reduction of their area and
their transformation into forest industry contractors
[zakazniki], the development of foreign hunting..., the
mismanagement and virtual destruction of natural monuments,
[and] Barnaul National Park ekes out a miserable existence. This
fate awaits the reserves: everything that is valuable, which has
accumulated over decades, will be destroyed within 2-3 years.
(...)  - Ecocentre "Vita" 

Mining and Environment in Tajikistan

by Oleg Baratov (Geological Society) and Yuri Skochilov (Youth
EcoCenter) - (...) In Tajikistan, two large regions stand out
for their widely distributed natural and anthropogenic
anomalies: Northern Tajikistan and Central Tajikistan. The
Kuraminsky Range, also known as the Karamazar Mountains, is the
principal area of natural anomalies in Northern Tajikistan. They
are composed primarily of granite and saturated with radioactive
elements, rare metals, and metallic compounds. Roughly 200
mining sites are concentrated in this area. The most important
mining operations are for lead, zinc, copper, silver,
molybdenum, wolfram, bismuth, gold, uranium, and iron. Moreover,
the ore contains commercial quantities of or compounds of
fluorite, cobalt, cadmium, selenium, tellurium, indium,
thallium, gallium, germanium, arsenic, mercury, antimony, and
strontium. The most toxic of the Karamazar elements are uranium,
thorium, lead, cadmium, molybdenum, arsenic, fluorine, and
selenium. Within the borders of Northern Tajikistan, because of
the geo-chemical nature of igneous rock containing uranium and
thorium, there are five areas (Adrasmanskaya, Eastern,
Tabosharskaya, Northwestern, and Kiiktalskaya) of elevated
radiation containing territories that are radiation anomalies
and uranium mines. The natural radiation level at Adrasmanskaya
fluctuates between 18 and 45 microroentgens/hour. It also has
six local radioactive anomalies covering roughly three square
kilometers where gamma activity is 75 to 300
microroentgens/hour. The Eastern area coincides with a strip of
development of Chokadambulak granite, which contains elevated
concentrations of thorium. The background gamma radiation
fluctuates between 18 and 25 microroentgens/hour, but there are
five uranium mines with gamma radiation up to 2000
microroentgens/hour and four others with levels up to 900
microroentgens/hour. The total area of elevated radiation in
Eastern is roughly 5.2 square kilometers. The most radioactive
area, however, is Tabosharskaya. Within its borders are more
than ten uranium mines and a large number of radioactive
anomalies. While mines in other areas may yet to have been
developed, in Tabosharskaya they are almost all developed, and
its territory is a significant zone of anthropogenic radioactive
pollution. Outside the borders of these anomalies, the
background radiation level is between 15 and 40
microroentgens/hour, but in the slightly more than five square
kilometers which is within their territories, it reaches 3000
microroentgens/hour. Northwestern has a background radiation
level of 12 to 35 microroentgens/hour, also explained by the
presence of granite with high levels of thorium. On its
territory are three uranium mines with levels up to 2000
microroentgens/hour and eight other radioactive anomalies with
levels up to 500 microroentgens/hour, comprising a total area of
2.5 square kilometers. Kiiktalskaya is situated in the Muzbek
Mountain Range and contains a developed eponymous uranium mine
whose territory contains radiation levels up to 4000
microroentgens/hour, while the surrounding area has levels of
from 10 to 35 microroentgens/hour. Natural springs here have
uranium concentrations of up to 3.2 grams/liter. It is important
to note that these areas of anthropogenic pollution in the
Karamazar Mountains exert negative influences on nearby regions
and are tending to increase in size. Waste products have been
shown to be dispersing themselves dozens of kilometers away in
the Mirzarabat and Samgar valleys, both areas of intensive
irrigated agriculture. The primary effects are acidification of
the soil and introduction into the water cycle of toxic
compounds that will eventually reach the Syr Darya River and the
Kairakum Reservoir, thereby polluting all of the eastern part of
Central Asia up to the Aral Sea. In Central Tajikistan, there
are three areas in the Gissarsky and Zeravshansky mountain
ranges (Shing-Mangianskaya, Iskanderkul-Yagnobsky, and
Barzobsky) of elevated radiation and pollution from mercury,
antimony, gold, wolfram, tin, and other developed and
undeveloped mines. All three areas of pollution are typical
mountainous territories prone to landslides and mudslides. In
other words, they are territories with rapid and intensive
migrational processes. As a rule, pollution sources (processing
industries and developed and undeveloped mines) are situated on
small territories on either steep mountain faces or flood
plains, sites which restrict normal utilization of mining waste
products. Shing-Mangianskaya encompasses an eponymous watershed
in the Penjikent district and contains many antimony-mercury,
gold-sulfides, and gold-rare metals mines. The main source of
pollution here is water run-off from the mercury mining of
Kavnok, the gold-antimony-wolfram mining of Jilau, and the
gold-antimony mining of Taror. The latter and several analogous
and closely situated mines (Gijarv, Badog, and others) are the
most aggressive polluters because their ore and wastes contain
appreciable amounts of arsenic. The wastes (arsenic, selenium,
lead, and other heavy metals) are untreated and are washed away
into the Shing, Magian, and Zeravshan rivers. Not only are these
wastes the major source of heavy metal pollution in these
rivers, remarkable quantities of mercury, antimony, and
molybdenum are introduced into the Zeravshan River. The
Iskanderkul-Yagnobsky region largely specializes in
mercury-antimony mining. Two areas are notably polluted with
mercury, antimony, arsenic, lead, and, possibly, thallium. The
major area consists of the Jijikrut Mine and the Anzob
Processing Facility situated in the middle stretch of the Yagnob
River. This mine and its processing facility have been
operational for over 30 years. During this period, several
million tons of mercury-antimony mining waste have been
accumulated and occasionally washed into the river. The other
pollution source contains the Konchoch-Skal mines. Several
hundred thousand tons of waste have been accumulated here and
are responsible for mercury, antimony, arsenic, lead, and,
possibly, thallium pollution of the Konchoch River, the unique
Iskanderkul Lake, and the Yagnob and Zeravshan rivers. Since the
Zeravshan River's watershed encompasses several countries, this
pollution threatens much of the drinking water and industrial
water supply of Central Asia. Barzobsky is tied to the river of
the same name in the Gissarsky Range. This area is of critical
importance because it directly impacts such densely populated
areas as Dushanbe and important agricultural areas such as the
Gissar Valley. In the middle stretches of the Barzob River,
because of a unique geological formation (the immense South
Barzob granite massif containing high levels of uranium and
thorium), there is a large (100 square kilometers) area of
elevated radiation, up to 60 microroentgens/hour, the Guskharv
uranium deposit (up to 1500 microroentgens/hour), and more than
50 radioactive anomalies (up to 1000 microroentgens/hour). This
area coincides with a region of fluorite-polymetallic mines,
such as Takob, Kondara, and Bigar. The Takob Fluorspar
Processing Facility is located here; in conjunction with the
mines, this facility is the Barzob's major polluter of fluorine
and lead. In the upper reaches of the Barzob River,
sulfide-gold-rare metal mining is particularly developed. The
Maikhur and Kabuta sulfide-tin-wolfram mines process ore
locally. These untreated wastes, eventual sources of arsenic
water pollution, are washed into the Maikhur and Zidda rivers,
both tributaries of the Barzob. While there are some undeveloped
gold and uranium mines here (Shutur-Gardan, Pyanj-Khok, and
Gazara), large amounts of waste ore were exposed during
exploration and are sources of arsenic, uranium, and lead
pollution for the Barzob watershed. Because of the unconsidered
economic and industrial activities of a range of mining and
processing ministries and agencies during the era of the Soviet
Union, Tajikistan has been bequeathed a legacy of immense
polluted areas, polluted soil, and polluted water, as well as
millions of tons of waste ore and materials suffused with
ecologically dangerous compounds from the mining industry. At
the present time, in order to liquidate the consequences of the
exploitation of mines and the processing of ore, significant
technical and fiscal resources are required, resources which
Tajikistan is not in any condition to provide unilaterally. The
environmental problems that face the republic today as a
consequence of the mining industry, problems exacerbated by
Tajikistan's unique geological history and its geographic
position in Central Asia, have grown far beyond the modest
borders of Tajikistan itself. They urgently demand international
attention and assistance. (...) 

The Reconstruction Of The Port Turkmenbashi

by Timur Berkeliev (Ashgabad Ecological Club Catena) - (...) The
EBRD is currently considering extending credit to Turkmenistan
for the rehabilitation and/or expansion of this port. For
background, Port Turkmenbashi is located on the Caspian Sea.
Founded in 1869, it was formerly named Krasnovodsk and held the
appellation "Sea Gate to Central Asia". At present, this largest
of Turkmenistan's ports links the Central Asian states, Iran,
and the Caucasus. With the dissolution of the USSR, trade
through the port decreased. However, increasing North/South
ties, high tariffs for Russian rail freight, and the existence
of oil refineries in Krasnovodsk itself give the port
possibilities for an advantageous position in the region. The
dilapidated technological condition of the port's
infrastructure, occasioned by both worn-out equipment and the
rising level of the Caspian Sea, prevents expansion of its
capacity. Ironically, the reconstruction of the port in the late
1950s and its relocation in the 1960s were occasioned by the
increasing shallowness of port areas because of a drop in the
Caspian Sea's level. During the course of the scoping
discussions, it became evident that there was no established
project plan yet. The question of whether an oil refinery
terminal would be included in the port area had not yet been
fully addressed. However, the current petroleum holding and
transportation facilities in Krasnovodsk are in miserable
condition. In our opinion, the major problem of the past and
present is the lack of space for the port, a condition
exacerbated by the rising level of the Caspian. There is a very
narrow beach between the sea and the mountains, bounded on one
side by the city and on the other by the village of Ufra and a
nature reserve. This beach is increasingly submerged; already
now water pipes and electrical lines are partially underwater.
The remaining dry land simply cannot accommodate necessary
processing facilities for solid and liquid wastes. There is also
no space for the storage of dredged materials. This problem is
already apparent in current dredging to deepen the port area and
would become much more serious considering the scale of the
proposed reconstruction of the port. The result would be more
dredged materials flowing back into the waterway, clouding the
water of the region, and possibly facilitating the introduction
of pollutants into the sea. However, the reconstruction of the
port, and the rest of the seaside infrastructure of Krasnovodsk,
is imperative from an ecological point of view. In the near
future, the situation in this region will be determined by two
factors, flooding and the condition of the oil refinery's
facilities. Against the background of these dangers, the
reconstruction of the port is not as significant. On the other
hand, exactly what kind of port will come into existence is an
important issue. In other words, the work of the environmental
movement will begin after proposals for the new port hit the
tables.In conclusion, we want to point out that the EBRD and its
consulting firms have conducted a number of research projects
already, for example on the proposed reconstruction on the
Ashgabad-Mary highway. Up to now, these efforts have ceased
after the stage of collection of information has been completed.
We'll see if the same thing happens with this port project.

Technogenic Environmental Transformations in Turkmenistan

by Nikita Barsuk (Citizens' Laboratory for Geo-Ecological
Modeling) - The territory of Turkmenistan, like large areas of
Africa, Asia, and America, is located in an arid zone with
limited water resources. Therefore, industrial development is
intimately intertwined with water allocation and, primarily,
with irrigation and its attendant structures of canals,
reservoirs, and drainage systems. Today, in the Aral Sea
watershed 56 cubic kilometers of the flow of the Amu Darya and
Syr Darya rivers are dedicated to artificial canals.
Consequently, the sea has virtually ceased to exist while
roughly eight million hectares have been brought under
cultivation. Roughly five cubic kilometers of "Aral" water are
diverted into Turkmenistan through the Karakum Canal to irrigate
approximately one million hectares. In illustrating basic
technogenic environmental transformations in Turkmenistan, the
most vivid example may be the Kopetdag industrial region, which
claims 3200 square kilometers and includes Ashgabad. This region
is responsible for 21% of the industrial output of the country
and 17% of the agricultural output. Therefore, the region is
subject to factors from both cities and croplands and processes
of transformation are both intense and sizable. The region has
80,000 cars and 50,000 motorcycles that consume up to 1.5
thousand tons of petroleum products daily. Roughly 100 large
factories produce up to 5.4 cubic meters/second of liquid waste.
Industries and power stations daily burn up to 200 tons of oil,
27 tons of coal, and more than four million cubic meters of
natural gas. Out of all the large cities in the region
(Ashgabad, Bezmein, Geoktepe, and Bakharden), only Ashgabad has
a completed sewage system; Bezmein has a partial system.
Disposal of waste water is direct (up to 3.5 cubic
meters/second) and seeps into the soil as well as into the water
supply of the cities. Irrigated lands comprise 115,000 hectares
and employ 44.5 cubic meters of water per second. The normal
delivery is between .3 and .7 liters per second per hectare.
Each hectare of cultivated land also annually receives between
270 and 500 kilograms of mineral fertilizer and between 4 and 10
tons of organic fertilizer. Most widely used is saltpeter:
ammonium nitrate, potassium nitrate, sodium nitrate, calcium
nitrate, ammonium sulfate, Ca(H2PO4)2xH2O+CaSO4, and potassium
chloride. Thus, at the beginning of the 1990s, every year 30-35
thousand tons of mineral and 500-520 thousand tons of organic
fertilizer were being applied to cultivated lands in the region.
Annual norms of biocides are from 6 to 13 kilograms/hectare,
three to four times above the world average. Thus, 1700 to 2600
tons of biocides are applied to the region annually. The most
widely used are the herbicides dalapon, tetral, and nitrofen,
and the defoliant "khlorat magniya". As a result of these
factors, all components of nature (surface and ground waters,
soil, and atmosphere) are subject to intense transformation.
Because of rising ground waters (rising at rates four times
faster than normal), flooding and swamps now claim 623 square
kilometers, 380 of them salinized at levels of more than 3%.
Because of the lack of remediation facilities for industrial
waste water, waste water has concentrations of up to 14.4
milligrams of ammonia, 1 milligram of phenols, .5 milligram of
asphaltenes, .6 milligram of aldehydes, .4 milligram of highly
reactive substances, and 8 milligrams of petroleum products per
liter; concentrations of up to 300 mg/liter of nitrates and 7
mg/liter of nitrites filter directly into the ground water.
Waste water from irrigation contains up to 180 mg/liter
nitrates. Fertilizers result in concentrations in ground water
of up to 18 mg/liter nitrites and 39 mg/liter nitrides.
Concentrations of agricultural chemicals in the water usually do
not exceed .017-.005 mg/liter; however, during autumn, it can
reach .12 mg/liter. The filtration of sewage water into the
ground water of urban areas creates bacteriological pollution.
The coliform index is generally 10-30, but in some places
reaches 1100. Roughly 90 thousand tons of industrial pollutants
are sent into the atmosphere annually, including up to 12
thousand tons of solid wastes such as cement, dust, and ash, up
to 60 thousand tons of carbon, and up to 500 tons of heavy
metals. Intensive automobile use accounts for the concentration
of lead (from 400 to 2000 grams per ton) and zinc (from 300 to
3000 grams per ton) in soil. Industrial areas characteristically
have up to 200 grams per ton of chrome, 5000 grams per ton of
strontium, and up to 500 grams per ton of arsenic, as well as
lithium, strontium, and cadmium pollution of vegetation.
Involving dozens of cubic kilometers and thousands of square
kilometers, the most powerful and immense influence on the
environment and human health is effected by water pollution
caused by technogenic alterations of, primarily, ground water.
In arid conditions, the quality of drinking water determines the
physical health of the population, and hydrologic conditions
determine the health of the land. They are affected by changes
in the structure of water flows, in the balance between water
supply and demand, in the chemical composition (and pollution)
of ground water, in the pollution and salinization of soils, and
in the external natural world (climate, landscape, flora, and
fauna). These factors determine consequent evaluations of the
effects of quantitative parameters of the technosphere, most
importantly the volume of water supply, extent of water loss and
filtration, and the volume of drainage systems. Subsequently,
these alterations effect transformations in chemistry, climate,
and the living world. The complex variety of factors involved in
the technosphere complicates prognosing the consequences of
industrial activities. Therefore, the Citizens' Laboratory
considers that in the conditions described above, the most
rational method of geo-ecological prognosing is quantitative
modeling. This quantitative model should be based on a
geo-filtration model of the surface and ground waters of
technogenic subjects such as towns and irrigated lands and
itself serve as a model for geo-chemical processes such as
pollution and salinization.

Chimgan NGO Seminar

by Ibragim Domulajanov (For an Ecologically Clean Fergana)
During the first two days in June, in Chimgan, in the mountains
of Tashkent Region, a seminar was held for Central Asian NGOs in
which environmental NGOs from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan took part, as well as
UNDP and the Netherlands foundation NOVIB. Among the
participants were Aral-SOS (Nukus, Karakalpakstan), the Union in
Defense of the Aral Sea and Amu Darya (Nukus), For an
Ecologically Clean Fergana (Fergana, Uzbekistan), Perzent
(Nukus), the Ecological Union of Karakalpakstan (Nukus), the
Ukuk Fund for International Legal Cooperation (Bishkek,
Kyrgyzstan), the Tabiat Ecological Movement (Bishkek), the
Institute for Human Ecology (Dushanbe, Tajikistan), EcoCenter
(Karaganda, Kazakhstan), the Kokjiek Society for Cooperation in
Resolution of the Problems of the Aral Region (Aralsk,
Kazakhstan), and Dashkhovuz Ecological Guardians (Dashkhovuz,
Turkmenistan). These organizations reviewed questions concerning
possible cooperative efforts to study the condition of the
ecosystems along the Syr Darya River, the Amu Darya River, and
the Aral Sea. The first result of the seminar was that the
Association of Central Asian Ecological NGOs was formed and
selected the following representatives to sit on its governing
board: Ibragim Domulajanov (Fergana), Karat Moldashev (Tabiat,
Bishkek), Abdurakhim Khasanov (Dushanbe), Farid Tukhvatullin
(Dashkhovuz), Kuryshbek Izmagambetov (Aralsk), Yusup Kamalov
(Nukus, Union in Defense of the Aral Sea and Amu Darya), and
Vladimir Ryaguzov (Karaganda). The second result of the seminar
was the formation of goals for the newly formed association,
including:

monitoring of the condition and pollution of waters, soils, and
aquatic and riparian biodiversity along the Syr Darya River, the
Amu Darya River, and the Aral Sea;

deepening the environmental education of the population living
in these ecosystems;

improving human health in the region, with special emphasis on
maternal and child health issues;

establishing a lobbying program;

developing better means of communication.

Through the period until October, these NGOs will be collecting
information about monitoring programs and attempting to build
cooperation with governmental agencies regarding cooperative
research and efforts in all the areas mentioned above. In
October or November, a follow-up seminar will be held to
facilitate future cooperative efforts. At that meeting, the
issue of the status of the association will be resolved and the
possibility of seeking funding from donor organizations for
cooperative projects will be discussed.

Contact Information: Ashgabad Ecol. Club:
catoffs@cat.glasnet.ru. Biostan: tashkent@glas.apc.org. For an
Ecolog. Clean Fergana: fergana@glas.apc.org. Scientific
Pedagogical Society Ecolog: karatag@td.silk.glas.apc.org.
Socio-Ecological Union: seu@glas.apc.org. Youth EcoCenter:
root@pamir.tadjikistan.su.

GABCIKOVO DAM TRIAL DUE TO START NEXT FEBRUARY

(The Hungary Report, No. 2.6, July 27, 1996) - Hungary and
Slovakia's long-standing dispute over a dam on the Danube could
be settled next spring with a ruling by the International Court
of Justice in the Hague. The court has set the start of the
verbal stage of a trial related to the controversial Gabcikovo
hydropower plant for February 17, 1997. The verbal hearing is
likely to take three to five weeks and the verdict should come a
few weeks later, said Gyorgy Szenasi, head of the international
legal division at the Foreign Ministry. He said the court will
pass a ruling of principle, and the two sides will have to reach
an agreement on the implementation of the verdict within six
months. Szenasi represents the Hungarian government in the legal
suit. Hungary and Slovakia asked the international court in May,
1993 to pass a ruling on their dispute related to the Danube
dam. The court will have to weigh four questions: 1.) Whether
was it legal on the part of Sloakia to unilaterally build a
<a name=L10007></a><a href=#L10008>so</a>-called C variant dam; 2.) whether it was legal for Slovakia
to divert the water of the Danube; 3.) whether the 1977
Hungarian Czechoslovak treaty on the joint investment ceased to
be in force after Hungary declared it terminated; 4.) whether
Hungary was legally justified in suspending and stopping
construction work at Nagymaros in 1989. Szenasi said experts
representing Hungary are prepared for the verbal stage of the
trial, and are optimistic regarding Hungary's position.

Environmental Cooperation Between East & West Europe

Good environmental information in Central and Eastern Europe is
essential to ensure that enlargement of the EU does not
compromise environmental standards. A 7 million ECU programme
from PHARE (1) is at the heart of a unique partnership announced
today between the European Environment Agency (EEA), the EU and
countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The programme is
focused on providing practical tools to improve the quality of
environmental information from Central and Eastern European
countries. The activities will include: the extension of the
EEA's European Information & Observation Network, EIONET (2), to
Central and Eastern Europe; close co-operation with UNEP's ENRIN
network (3); personnel training; technical back-up with
hardware, software and other equipment; and help with
disseminating information via workshops, publications etc. This
programme will help Central and Eastern European countries to
protect their environments, reduce their contribution to
European and global pollution, and help pave the way for the
successful enlargement of the European Union. In particular,
this co-operation will directly contribute to the work leading
from the last pan-European environment ministers conference held
in Sofia, Bulgaria in October 1996, to the next to be hosted by
the Danish government in May 1998.

The European Union's PHARE programme provides grant finance to
support its partner countries in Central and Eastern Europe
(CCEE) to the stage where they are ready to assume the
obligations of EU membership. Apart from the CCEE co-operation
with the European Environment Agency, launched today, the
multi-country environment programme of PHARE supports projects
in a wide number of areas including the Black Triangle, the
Danube Basin, the Black Sea and the Baltic. 

The EEA's European Information and Observation Network (EIONET)
links together the EEA, the EU Commission, the national
environment centres of EEA countries (EU + Norway, Iceland and
Liechtenstein) and European Topic Centres in a computerised web
of data monitoring and analysis. Part of the new programme
involves extending the Topic Centres on Air Quality, Air
Emissions and Inland Waters to the PHARE countries. 

The UNEP ENRIN programme (Environment and Natural Resource
Information Networking), which began in 1994, was established to
improve access to environmental data and information for
governments and decision-makers, and to promote the development
of national and sub-regional capacities for environmental data
management. Where appropriate the activities may be used to
develop further Global Resource Information Database
(GRID)-compatible centres in Central and Eastern Europe. Thus
far, significant progress has been made in the Baltic States,
Georgia, Hungary, Russia, Ukraine and the Black Sea region.

EEA, contact: David Gee, EEA, Kongens Nytorv 6 DK-1050
Copenhagen K Tel: +45.33.36.71.00 Fax: +45.33.36.71.99. PHARE,
contact: Mr. Griepink, The European Commission DG I PHARE, Rue
de la Loi 200 B-1049 Brussels, Tel: +32.2.296.25.80 Fax:
+32.2.296.80.40. UNEP, contact: Michael Williams United Nations
Environment Programme 11, chemin des Anemones CH-1219 Chatelaine
Tel: +41-22-979.92.42 Fax: +41-22-979.90.29

WWF-US is disengaging from Central and Eastern Europe

by Richard Liroff (WWF-US CEE Environmental Affairs Newsletter,
June '96) - (...) WWF-US staff have helped launch energy
efficiency centers in Poland and the Czech Republic, and have
advised the Environmental Partnership for Central and Eastern
Europe, the Global Environment Facility, and numerous other
organizations and projects. WWF's most far-reaching success has
been the Environmental Training Project coordinated by the
University of Minnesota with funding from the U.S. Agency for
International Development. Through ETP, WWF staff, consultants,
and grantees have trained huge numbers of trainers and trainees
in organizational management and conflict resolution skills in
five countries. WWF has also helped establish the International
Organization of Information Specialists and has supported
numerous training meetings for electronic networking. These are
designed to foster electronic communication of environmental
information, and a bolder role for libraries in strengthening
environmental management in the region. WWF has also helped
establish an environmental trust fund for the Eastern Carpathian
Mountains, with funds from the World Bank and the MacArthur
Foundation. WWF-US is disengaging from Central and Eastern
Europe. WWF organizations elsewhere remain active in Central
Europe and the former Soviet Union. WWF organizations in Western
Europe and the WWF-International secretariat in Switzerland
support WWF program offices in Latvia, Hungary, and Moscow,
programs for the Danube River and Baltic Sea, and a host of
other activities. WWF-US continues its work in the Russian Far
East.

REC receives new home and vote of confidence

Szentendre, Hungary (June 19, 1996) - In an address to the
General Assembly of the Regional Environmental Center, Ferenc
Baja, Hungarian Minister for Environment and Regional Policy,
will announce today the official opening of the Center's new
headquarters in Szentendre. The site, appraised at $2 million,
was donated by the Hungarian government at the Sofia Conference
of the Ministers of the Environment last year. The donation
represents a tremendous vote of confidence for the REC's
activities, which have been ongoing in Central and Eastern
Europe since 1990. U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for the
Environment Eileen Claussen and the Commission of the European
Communities Deputy Director General for DG XI Tom Garvey will be
among the government representatives from the REC's 27 member
nations joining Horn for the dedication. (...) Bedrich Moldan,
the Chairman of REC's Board of Directors, sees the facility as
the first step towards the Center's quest for financial
sustainability. "It is our hope that other governments and
funding agents will join the Hungarian initiative and support
the financial security of the REC," says Moldan. (...) The
Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe is
an independent, international organization established in 1990
by Hungary, the United States and the Commission of the European
Communities. Twelve countries have since joined these founding
sponsors. All of the REC's programs are unified in their resolve
to promote regional cooperation among diverse interest groups in
Central and Eastern Europe, to build the capacity of
stakeholders to solve environmental problems, and to promote the
development of civil society. Beneficiary countries are Albania,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, FYR Macedonia, Poland Romania, Slovak Republic and
Slovenia. Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia are expected to join the organization at this
session. In these countries, the REC supports environmental
organizations (NGOs), local authorities, national governments,
the media, businesses and academic institutions.

Janos Zlinszky, Tel: (36-1) 250-3401, Fax: (36-1) 250-3403,
e-mail: janos@fs2.bp.rec.hu 

NGO Models In Transition Conditions

(IEA "Altair") - In June 3-5, an NGO conference under the name
"NGO Models in Transition Conditions: Examples of Working Social
Projects" took place in Kiev. It was organized and carried out
by the American organization COUNTERPART Foundation for
International Partnerships. The participants of the conference
non-governmental organizations from Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine,
Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kirgizstan, Uzbekistan and Russia
presented their projects, which were realized with the support
of this Foundation. During the working sessions 25 projects have
been presented in three fields of activities: Disabled People
and Social Services; Society Development and Working Places
Creation and Information, Training, Education. The indices of
the NGOs' success, proposed by the American colleagues for
discussion, were analyzed and added. The representatives of the
World Bank, the European Council, the USAID Programme, EURASIA
Foundation and "VOZROZHDENIYE" International Foundation spoke at
the plenary meetings.

The Blue Danube Centre Of Attention Of The European NGOs Forum

by Petru Cocirta (Coordinator of Moldovan NGOs in the
Environmental Programme for the Danube River Basin, member of
the NGOs Forum Council of the Environmental Danube Forum) - On
February 15-18, 1996 in the city of Kosice, Slovakia, the Second
General Assembly of NGOs took place in the framework of the
Danube Environmental Forum. About 70 delegates - representatives
from the Danube basin countries' NGOs took part in the Forum
along with the representatives of the international
organizations of the World Wild - Life Fund, CEE-WEB, IUCN and
Coordinating Council of the Danube Basin Programme. From Moldova
the following delegates took part in the meeting: Petru Cocirta,
vice-president of the Ecological Movement of Moldova,
coordinator of the Moldovan NGOs within the framework of the
Environmental Programme for the Danube River Basin, Vladimir
Javgureanu, member of the Journalists-Ecologists' Union, Lidia
Romanchuk, member of the Association for Ecological Education
and Information "Terra Nostra". At the Assembly there were
elected three representatives for the Danube Task Force, a group
of leaders for the Danube Environmental Forum: one
representative for each section of the Danube basin - the upper,
the middle and the lower area. Gheorge Catalin, the NGO
representative from Romania, was elected for the lower section,
which includes areas in Bulgaria, Moldova, Romania and Ukraine. 

News From Moldova, #4, April 1996, Altair Ecological Union: P.B.
91, Chisinau 277012, Moldova Tel./Fax: (3732) 568844 E-mail:
altair@glas.apc.org

Short news

SPAN (Sustainable Packaging Action Network) is an informal
association of groups and individuals in Europe dealing with
waste campaigning and sustainable packaging strategies. The
network issues a newsletter (presently produced by the ECO Trust
in Bristol, UK). Interested groups and individuals can receive
the newsletter free of charge by contacting ECO Trust at 10-12
Picton St., Montpelier, Bristol BS6 5QA Great Britain, e-mail:
ecotrust@gn.apc.org. (Taiga News no 15)

Russian Federation Association Of Indigenous Peoples Of The
North, Siberia, Far East, 117876 Moscow, ul. Stroitelei, 8, k.
2, kom. 707 tel: (095) - 930 - 7078 (General Secretary
Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North, Siberia and Far
East V.B. Shustov)

Regional Environmental Expert Database (REED): If you are person
who has extensive skills or knowledge in the environmental field
you may be interested in becoming a "REC Expert". We are looking
for environmental experts who can offer advice and assistance
that can help solve all kinds of environmental problems. We
would like to invite you to participate in the REC's latest
initiative, the Regional Environmental Expert Database (REED).
If you think you are qualified as an environmental expert and
you are located in the Central and Eastern Europe, please fill
out the attached expert form and return it to the Regional
Environmental Center. - Ivelin Roussev Information Services
Officer REED Project Coordinator, Miklos ter 1, Budapest 1035,
Hungary. Tel: (36 1) 250 3401. Fax: (36 1) 250 3403. E-mail:
rec-info@rec.hu REC Home Page: <a href=http://www.rec.hu>http://www.rec.hu</a> REED.

The Environmental Management Training Center (EMTC) Network is a
special project of the Regional Environmental Center for Central
and Eastern Europe. The mission of the EMTC Network is to link,
support and strengthen the leading environmental training
institutions and individuals in Central and Eastern Europe in
order to achieve sustainable environmental training in the
region. This mission is being accomplished through working in
four areas: Providing information - Facilitating the exchange of
experience and expertise - Initiating international projects
Increasing visibility

Miroslav Chodak EMTC Network Project Manager Regional
Environmental Center EMTC Network Miklos ter 1 1035 Budapest
Hungary tel: +36-1-250-3401 fax: +36-1-250-3403 E-mail:
miroslav@fs2.bp.rec.hu


.
<hr>39/61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-3</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000257-B031-195</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c40 194.10.201.200 19970108162941 text/html 741
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 17:29:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 584
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-eeu
From: GFBV-GERMANY@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: reg.eeurope
- - - -
jeder dritte der russischen Nationalität angehörte. Ein 
Viertel aller Opfer waren Kinder. 

Auf Befehl Jelzins, SO Zülch, habe die russische 
Luftwaffe und Armee systematisch Wohnviertel 
tschetschenischer Städte und Dörfer (insgesamt 46.000 
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=40">  Article </a><hr>40/61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-4</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000257-B032-30</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.19&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108163021 text/html 3359
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 17:29:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3201
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-eeu
From: GFBV-GERMANY@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: reg.eeurope
Subject: Medienpreis an Jelzin
Date: 11 Sep 1996 11:20:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit

PRESSEERKLÄRUNG

Göttingen, den 11.09.1996

Preisverleihung an Boris Jelzin angesichts 
90.000 Opfern in Tschetschenien als perverse 
Instinktlosigkeit bezeichnet

Der Bundesvorsitzende der Gesellschaft für bedrohte 
Völker, Tilman Zülch, hat die Verleihung des deutschen 
Medienpreises 1996 durch "Media-Control" an den 
russischen Präsidenten Boris Jelzin als "perverse 
Instinktlosigkeit" bezeichnet. Die Preisverleihung käme 
einer Verhöhnung der Opfer des Völkermordverbrechens in 
Tschetschenien gleich, deren Zahl General Aleksandr 
Lebed, Sekretär des russischen Sicherheitsrates, noch am 
3. September mit bis zu 90.000 beziffert hatte. Jelzin 
sei persönlich für den Tod dieser von der russischen 
Armee ermordeten Menschen verantwortlich, von denen etwa 
jeder dritte der russischen Nationalität angehörte. Ein 
Viertel aller Opfer waren Kinder. 

Auf Befehl Jelzins, <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> Zülch, habe die russische 
Luftwaffe und Armee systematisch Wohnviertel 
tschetschenischer Städte und Dörfer (insgesamt 46.000 
Häuser) ganz oder teilweise zerstört, Krankenhäuser, 
Schulen, Kinderheime, Moscheen und Kirchen bombardiert, 
in Flüchtlingstrecks geschossen und bei Kämpfen 
Zivilisten liquidiert. 80 % der Bevölkerung 
Tschetscheniens seien durch die Politik Jelzins zu 
Flüchtlingen geworden. Trotz der Proteste russischer und 
internationaler Menschenrechtler habe Jelzin sogar 
die Einrichtung von Folterzentren toleriert. Noch am 15. 
März 1996 habe er nach Angaben des ehemaligen russischen 
Parlamentspräsidenten Russlan Chasbulatow angeordnet, 
einen militärischen Sieg in Tschetschenien zu erzwingen, 
"ohne sich um die Opfer unter der Zivilbevölkerung zu 
sorgen".

Völkermord und Wiederholung der nationalsozialistischen 
Verbrechen würden nicht dadurch verhindert, daß man 
ihrer in Sonntagsreden gedenke und dann Verantwortliche 
für Genozid mit Preisen auszeichne, erklärte Zülch. 
Offensichtlich hätten die Preisverleiher von 
Media-Control aus dem Holocaust nichts gelernt. Die 
Gesellschaft für bedrohte Völker fordert "Media-Control" 
auf, die Preisverleihung an Jelzin rückgängig zu machen 
und den Preis stattdessen entweder an Menschenrechtler 
Sergej Kowaljow oder Friedensstifter Aleksandr Lebed zu 
verleihen.

Gesellschaft für bedrohte Völker
Society for Threatened Peoples
NGO in consultative status (category II) 
with the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the 
United Nations
P.O. Box 2024
D - 37010 Göttingen
Phone: 0049/551/49906-25
Fax:  0049/551/58028
E-mail: GfbV-Germany@OLN.COMLINK.APC.ORG

## CrossPoint v3.02 ##
.
<hr>40/61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-5</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000257-B032-67</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.19&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108163105 text/html 3621
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 17:30:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3463
</DOCHDR>
<pre>so -- 61 hits<br>

<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c41"> 41</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=41">   285 960916 ECODEFENSE!inform 97 (animal protec</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c42"> 42</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=42">   296 960709 ECODEFENSE!inform 90</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c43"> 43</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=43">    71 961111 GAMA: Slovenian parliamentary elect</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c44"> 44</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=44">   103 961111 Oil business and the Baltic Sea</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c45"> 45</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=45">    62 961112 GAMA: europe-security-conference</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c46"> 46</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=46">    35 961112 GAMA: eastern slavonia-arms</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c47"> 47</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=47">    40 961112 GAMA: mostar-international police</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c48"> 48</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=48">   387 961116 ECODFEFENSE!inform 102-103</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c49"> 49</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=49">    64 961118 GAMA: POLLUTION IN SLOVENIA</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c50"> 50</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=50">    87 961120 GAMA: The end of Film Art Fest in L</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c51"> 51</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=51">   180 961125 x-USSR nuke news 4</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c52"> 52</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=52">   268 961128 ECODEFENSE!inform 104</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c53"> 53</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=53">   304 961202 ECODEFENSE!inform 105</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c54"> 54</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=54">    73 961202 6.12.</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c55"> 55</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=55">    51 961203 INFOBLATT BALTISCHE STAATEN</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c56"> 56</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=56">    25 961203 NEW RUSSIAN NEWSGROUP ON NUKES, VIS</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c57"> 57</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=57">   137 961213 Save Radio101, Zagreb</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c58"> 58</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=58">   287 961221 x-USSR nuke news N 5</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c59"> 59</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=59">   317 961222 ECODEFENSE!inform 106-107</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c60"> 60</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=60">   330 961230 ACCION INTERNACIONALISTA URGENTE</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=c61"> 61</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.19&q=so&in=61">   317 961230 URGENT INTERNATIONALIST ACTION</a>
<hr>41-61/61  </pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-6</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B036-78</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/mc303.html 194.10.201.200 19970107181741 text/html 5358
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:17:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5155
Last-Modified: Friday, 15-Nov-96 02:40:12 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>mc-303</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/roland.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/mc303.jpg">
<h1>MC-303 GROOVEBOX</h1>
<h2>Let there be groove</h2>
<h5>Look at it, and you know immediately what it is: the MC-303
reminds you of those Roland beat boxes and other groovy
devices impossible to come by but indispensable for the
serious Dance musician. Yet its features are straight out of
the late 1990s. It's got rhythms (Preset and User Patterns
consisting of backings and cool grooves), it's got music
(all those killer sounds the Dance scene is after), and it's
as real-time as an electronic musical instrument can
possibly get. Who could ask for anything more?
Here's a device worth expensive setups consisting of
turntables, a mixer, and various instruments.</h5>
<hr>
The MC-303 is an exciting new product that presents new
creative approaches to dance music. Dance music, especially
techno music, can now be approached creatively by anyone
using the MC-303. All that's required is just to combine any
preset sounds and patterns from the huge selection offered,
including sounds from vintage analog synthesizers. Realtime
performance capability is emphasized, such as realtime Cutoff
and Resonance controls to vary the sound as well as Arpeggio
and Groove Quantize for adding a special feel or groove to the
song. The self-contained MC-303 can offer a level of
performance which has been only available with huge set-ups
including turntable, mixer, and various instruments. The
MC-303's integrated features provide advanced DJs with
another innovative way of creating techno music.
<hr>
With its 120 Preset Patterns and an awesome 448 Tones and
12 Drum Sets, the MC-303 has everything to get you up and
grooving within seconds. The Preset Patterns and Tones cover
various facets of modern dance music, from Techno, Jungle,
Trance to House, Acid Jazz and Hip-Hop.
<hr>
The MC-303 comes loaded a selection of vintage analogue
sounds that are so typical of dance music: TB-303 basses,
SH-101 basses and solo sounds, Juno and Jupiter sounds,
synth pianos, etc., and of course scratch noises, orchestra hits,
white noise, TR-909 and TR-808. Techno and Jungle drum
sets are also included.
<hr>
The Preset Patterns can either be used 'as is' or customized by
muting some parts (the chord backing, for example) and then
stored to one of the 300 Variation memories. Original Patterns
can be created either by modifying existing Preset Patterns or
by programming them in real-time or step time. The MC-303
provides 50 User Pattern memories. Pattern sequences can
either be programmed in real-time or as Songs for repeated use.
<hr>
The MC-303 is essentially a real-time performance tool,
providing four large knobs for recordable sound parameter
editing (filter, LFO, envelope, resonance, etc.), Real-time Phrase
Sequencing (RPS), an advanced arpeggiator with more than
30 styles, and sophisticated Quantize functions (Grid Quantize,
Shuffle Quantize, and Groove Quantize). The MC-303 also
features a Low Boost knob allowing you to dial in as much
low-end as it takes to create powerful Kick or bass sounds so
that anyone can 'feel' the groove. The BPM rate can be specified
down to the first decimal place for precise synchronization with
external sound sources or by using the Tap Tempo function.
<hr>
The MC-303 also sports a MIDI IN and a MIDI OUT connector
to interface with external MIDI compatible equipment.
<hr>
<h3>Specifications</h3>

<ul>
<li>Parts: 16 parts (main 8+ RPS 8)
<li>Tones: 448 Tones
<li>Drum Sets: 12 sets
<li>Maximum Polyphony: 28 voices
<li>Effects: Reverb/Delay, Chorus/Flanger
<li>Sequencer
<li>Tracks: 8
<li>Songs: 10
<li>Patterns: Preset: 120, RPS: 200
<li>Variation Patterns: 300
<li>User Patterns: 50 (maximum)/approx. 14,000 notes
<li>RPS Sets: 30
<li>Pattern Sets: 20
<li>Tempo: Quarter Note = 20 to 250 BPM
<li>Resolution: 96 ticks per quarter note
<li>Recording Method: Realtime, Step 1, Step 2
<li>Control Knobs
<li>Realtime Modify: Cutoff, Resonance, LFO(Moduration, Rate), Envelope Attack, Decay, Release, Panpot, Level, Portamento Time
<li>Effects: Time/Rate, EFX Level
<li>Play Quantize: Timing, Velocity (Grid, Groove,Shuffle)
<li>Arpeggio: Accent Rate, Octave Range (33 styles)
<li>Others: Low Boost, Master Volume
<li>Keyboard pad: 16 keys (also Octave Up/Down)
<li>Display: 7 segments, 6 characters (LED)
<li>Connectors: Output jacks (L/mono, R), Headphone jack, MIDI connectors (In, Out), Foot control jack, AC adaptor jack
<li>Power Supply: AC adaptor (DC 9V)
<li>Current Draw: 500mA
<li>Dimensions: 378 (W) x 244 (D) x 91 (H) mm, 14-14/16 x 9-10/16 x 3-9/16 inches
<li>Weight: 3.0 kg / 61bs 10 oz (excluding AC adaptor)
<li>Accessories: AC adaptor
<li>Options: DP-2 Pedal Switch, BOSS FS-5U Foot Switch
</ul>


<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>


























</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-7</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B031-326</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107161145 text/html 1403
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 17:11:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1247
</DOCHDR>
fair trade news
<TITLE> fair trade news </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.17>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40 checked> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. A space is OR. 
	If no connectors are used, full matches are marked with '*'
	and displayed first. You can also use AND and NOT to in/exclude 
	words.  Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)
	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.17>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-8</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B038-487</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107183240 text/html 4529
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:32:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4373
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 343 records<br>

1  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=1"> 42 19960605 Re: update on Oventic</a>
2  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=2"> 388 19960604 International Call to Chiapas(Spani</a>
3  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=3"> 10 19960606 change of address</a>
4  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=4"> 92 19960606 Elorriaga and Entzin Freed!</a>
5  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=5"> 390 19960610 W. Banks IPM Policy</a>
6  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=6"> 13 19960611 News & Notices #13,   Sec.III.  Wor</a>
7  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=7"> 32 19960622 Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO</a>
8  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=8"> 439 19960623 Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO</a>
9  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=9"> 136 19960624 URGENT HELP NEEDED TO FREE NNIMMO B</a>
10  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=10"> 246 19960624 G7 and CDebt</a>
11  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=11"> 22 19960626 Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO</a>
12  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=12"> 65 19960701 Oxfam Int's Response G7 Communique</a>
13  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=13"> 56 19960701 New book on local development</a>
14  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=14"> 66 19960702 (fwd) kidnapping...</a>
15  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=15"> 20 19960528 Re: Trade Resources</a>
16  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=16"> 87 19960603 New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export</a>
17  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=17"> 87 19960604 Message not deliverable</a>
18  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=18"> 87 19960605 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
19  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=19"> 87 19960606 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
20  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=20"> 87 19960608 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
21  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=21"> 87 19960607 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
22  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=22"> 87 19960609 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
23  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=23"> 113 19960609 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
24  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=24"> 87 19960609 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
25  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=25"> 87 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
26  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=26"> 113 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
27  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=27"> 106 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
28  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=28"> 87 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
29  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=29"> 113 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
30  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=30"> 112 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
31  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=31"> 94 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
32  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=32"> 106 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
33  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=33"> 10 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
34  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=34"> 10 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
35  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=35"> 17 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
36  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=36"> 21 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
37  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=37"> 10 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
38  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=38"> 10 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
39  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=39"> 87 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
40  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=40"> 106 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
<hr>1-40/343    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=321-360">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-9</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B037-183</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108111837 text/html 1765
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:17:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1607
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: gabe@erols.com
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Re: update on Oventic
Date: 05 Jun 1996 08:04:20

 Please remove Gabriel Negatu of FAVDO-US from your cirulation list from
this point on.

thank you for your cooperation

At 06:41 AM 6/4/96, you wrote:
>
>
>-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
>             BULLETIN ABOUT OVENTIC: "ABANDONED"
>                              
>In the June 1 edition of La Jornada on page 16 there was an
>article that included news on Oventic.  According to CONPAZ,
>the residents of Oventic, in the municipality of San Andres
>Larrainzar, abandoned their community on Friday, May 31st,
>"because of the strong presence of the Army and the
>insecurity of the region".  CONPAZ stated that the community
>was "deserted" and the homes "abandoned".
>
>             BULETIN SOBRE OVENTIC: "ABANDONADA"
>                              
>En la edicion del 1 de Junio, La Jornada en pagina 16
>publico un articulo que incluya noticias sobre Oventic.
>CONPAZ informo que los habitantes de Oventic, municipio de
>San Andres Larrainzar, abandonaran hoy la comunidad "por la
>fuerte presencia del Ejercito y la inseguridad de la
>region".
>
>Senalo que la comunidad esta "desierta" y las viviendas
>"abandonadas".
>                              
>
>
>

.
<hr>1/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-10</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B037-235</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108111923 text/html 12907
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:18:39 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 12748
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: International Call to Chiapas(Spani
Date: 04 Jun 1996 19:23:00

Subject:       International Call to Chiapas(Spanish and English)



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------



Convocatoria a la Jornada Mundial en Apoyo al "Dialogo de
San Andres".

El "Dialogo de San Andres", por la paz con justicia y
dignidad,
este en peligro. El gobierno mexicano ha dado claras senales
de su
intencion de romperlo, para asi justificar una salida
militar. La carencia
de propuestas y el bajo perfil de la delegacion
gubernamental a lo largo
de la Mesa 2 dedicada al tema "Democracia y Justicia", las
condenas a
Javier Elorriaga y Sebastian Entzin, presuntos zapatistas,
por los cargos
de terrorismo, la ambigiedad del poder ejecutivo al plantear
la forma de
revertir dichas condenas y la informacion calumniosa que
filtra el
gobierno a ciertos periodistas encargados de difamar la
causa de los
presuntos zapatistas, son prueba del intencional sabotaje
gubernamental al
proceso de paz. Las constantes y cada vez mas agresivas
incursiones
militares, la compra de equipos belicos y la proteccion a
los grupos
paramilitares que actuan en el estado de Chiapas, confirman
la intencion
del gobierno mexicano de justificar el reinicio de los
enfrentamientos
militares. Mientras la guerra de baja intensidad pasa a una
nueva etapa,
el gobierno mexicano ha lanzado un ultimatum diciendo que si
el EZLN no
acude a las negociaciones el proximo cinco de junio
reanudara la
persecucion judicial contra los zapatistas, lo cual
significaria de hecho
reaunudar la guerra.

Frente a esta grave situacion, el Ejercito Zapatista de
Liberacion
Nacional, ha declarado enfaticamente que, al no existir
condiciones
politicas minimas es imposible la continuacion del dialogo.
Por ello, ha
manifestado a la sociedad civil que si piensa hacer algo
para impedir la
solucion militar: a debe hacerlo ya!, exigiendo al gobierno
mexicano tomar
en serio el "Dialogo de San Andres".

Ante este momento crucial, entre la guerra y la paz,
Asesores e
Invitados del EZLN en el "Dialogo de San Andres" convocan a
los ciudadanos
del mundo, partidarios de una salida pacifica, justa y digna
de la guerra
en Chiapas, a realizar la 1a Jornada Mundial en apoyo al
"Dialogo de San
Andres", para exigir al gobierno crear las condiciones
necesarias para
alcanzar la paz. La Jornada se iniciara el proximo sabado 8
de junio
y continuara durante toda esa semana. Consistira en
movilizaciones simultaneas
frente a las embajadas y consulados mexicanos en todo el
mundo y en
multiples movilizaciones en Mexico. Comprendera ademas del
envio
de cartas al Presidente Ernesto Zedillo, 271-1764 (Fax) y
al Secretario de la Defensa Nacional, General Enrique
Cervantes. 395-2935
(Fax). Las principales demandas de esta Jornada seran:

 - El retiro de las tropas del ejercito mexicano a sus
cuarteles, en
cumplimiento del articulo 129 de la Constitucion mexicana,
el cese del
acoso a las comunidades chiapanecas y el envio de alimentos
a las
poblaciones ubicadas en la zona de conflicto, ya que el
acoso militar les
impidio sembrar.
- Retirar, por improcedentes los cargos de terrorismo Javier
Elorriaga y
Sebastian Entzin, y en consecuencia liberarlos de la carcel,
lo mismo que
a los otros 16 presuntos zapatistas presos.
- El reinicio de las platicas de paz, con una clara y
demostrable
decision de resolver los problemas que dieron origen al
levantamiento del
1o de enero de 1994.

Como simbolo de la Jornada proponemos soltar pequenos
"globos
aerostaticos" con un mensaje al EZLN que diga "No estan
solos", evocando
los globos enviados al mundo por los comuneros de Paris para
llamar a
defender la esperanza.

     Mucho agracederemos su participacion en estas Jornadas,
por la
vida y en contra de los actos guerreros del gobierno
mexicano.

     Ciudad de Mexico, a 23 de mayo de 1996.


     ASESORES E INVITADOS DEL EJERCITO ZAPATISTA DE
LIBERACION NACIONAL EN EL DIALOGO DE SAN ANDRES.
-------------------------------

          Call to action

International Week of Support for the San Andres Peace Talks
in Mexico

The San Andres Peace Talks for peace with justice and
dignity are in danger
of breaking down.  The Mexican government has clearly shown
its intention to
subvert the Peace Talks and to impose a military 'solution'
on the Zapatistas.

The Mexican government has not acted in good faith during
the second round
of Peace Talks on Democracy and Justice.  It has lacked
proposals for the Round
Table discussions, and the official government delegation is
composed of low
level bureaucrats who lack authority to negotiate in the
discussions.
Furthermore, even as it pretends to negotiate issues of
democracy and justice,
the Mexican government has arrested and condemned two
supposed Zapatistas -
Javier Elorriaga and Sebastian Entzin - to 14 years of jail
for unsubstantiated
charges of terrorism.  Both executive indecision on
reviewing this case and
leaks of slanderous information on the case from the
government to some
journalists who spread disinformation about the Elorriaga
and Entzin case are
part of an intentional government campaign to delegitimize
the Zapatistas'
position.

Menacing signs of the Mexican government's intention to
renew military
confrontation abound; constant and increasingly aggressive
military incursions
in Chiapas, purchase of military hardware, and the
protection of paramilitary
groups active in Chiapas.  While the low intensity warfare
reaches new levels of
activity, the Mexican government has imposed an ultimatum on
the Zapatistas.  If
the EZLN does not respond to government demands by June 5,
it will resume
judicial persecution of all presumed Zapatistas.  This is a
clear sign of the
Mexican government's transgression of the Peace Process and
a resumption of
a state of war.

In front of this serious situation, the Zapatista Army of
National Liberation
has declared that without even a minimal political will on
the part of the
government, it is impossible to continue a dialogue.  The
EZLN has told civil
society that if we want to do something to impede a military
solution - WE
MUST DO IT NOW!  We, civil society, must demand that the
government get serious about the San Andres Peace Talks.

At this crucial moment, between war and peace, the Advisors
and Observers for
the EZLN in the San Andres Peace Talks call all the citizens
of the world
interested in a peaceful, just and dignified solution to the
war in Chiapas, to
participate in and promote a Week of Support for the San
Andres Peace
Talks to pressure the Mexican government to create the
conditions necessary to reach a negotiated peace.

The Week of Support will begin Saturday, June 8, with
simultaneous
demonstrations for peace in front of Mexican embassies and
consulates through out the world, and with many
demonstrations throughout Mexico.  It will include sending
letters to:
     President Ernesto Zedillo     fax: (525)  271- 1764
     General Enrique Cervantes, Minister of National
Defense, (525)395-2935.

The principal demands of this week of Support are:
1. Withdrawal of Mexican army troops from Chiapas
communities and the retreat of Mexican army troops into
their barracks in fulfillment of Article 129 of the
Mexican Constitution.
2. Cessation of military harassment of Chiapas communities
and the delivery
of food and grains to the people living in the zone of
conflict; military action in
the area restricted farmers and peasants from planting their
subsistence crops
for the year.
3. Withdraw the unsubstantiated charges of terrorism against
Javier Elorriaga
and Sebastian Entzin, and free them from jail along with the
other 16 political
prisoners.
4. Reestablish the Peace Talks, with a clear and
demonstrable will to resolve
the problems that are at the root of the uprising of January
1, 1994.

As a symbol of the Week of Support, we propose that
participants launch
balloons in the air with the message to the EZLN saying "You
are NOT alone".  This action is reminiscent of the balloons
sent into the world by the members of the
communes of Paris in a call to defend their hope for a
better future.

Many thanks for your participation in the Week of Support,
in support of
life and against acts of war of the Mexican government.

Mexico City,

Group of Advisors and Observers of the EZLN in the San
Andres Peace Talks


    [The following text is in the "ISO-8859-1" character
set]
    [Your display is set for the "latin" character set]
    [Some characters may be displayed incorrectly]

Aufruf zur Internationalen Aktion zur Unterstuetzung des
"San Andres Dialog=
es"

Der "San Andres Dialog", das Dialog fuer einen wuerdigen und
gerechten
Frieden in Chiapas ist gerade in grosser Gefahr. Die
mexikanische
Regierung hat klare Zeichenge geben, den Dialog abzubrechen,
um eine
militarische Intervention gerechtfertigen zu koen nen. Die
mangelden
Vorschlaege und das niedrige Niveau der Regierungsdelegation
in der 2.
Verhandlungsphase (zum Thema "Demokratie und Gerechtigkeit")
der
Friedensgesprechaer; die Gerichtlicheverurteilungen von
Javier Elorriaga
und Sebastian Entzin, angeb liche Zapatisten, unter dem
Vorwurf des
Terrorismus; die unklare Stellungnahme der Exekutive zu
einer moeglichen
Ruecknahme der Verurteilung und die verleumderische
Berichterstattung
ueber den Fall in der mexikanischen Presse, beweisen die
intentionierte
Sabotagehaltung verschiedener Kreise gegen den
Friedensprozess. Die
staendigen und immer aggressiveren militaerischen Eingriffe,
die
Anschaffung neuer kriegerischen Ausruestung und der Schutz
der
paramilitaerische Gruppen der Region, belegen die Absicht
der
mexikanischen Regierung, erneute militaerische Aktionen
rechtfertigen zu
wollen. Waehrend der low-intensity Krieg auf einer hoeheren
Stufe angeland
ist, hat die mexikanische Regierung gleichzeitig das
Ultimatum gestellt,
dass wenn den Vertreter des Za patistischen Heeres sich
nicht zu den
Verhandlungen am 5. Juli einfinden,werden die gerichtlichen
Verfolgung
gegen die Zapatisten weitergehen. Das wuerde die
Wiederaufnahme des
Krieges bedeuten.=20

Angesichts dieser schweren Lage, hat die Zapatisten hat
nachdruecklich
erklaert dass, dass der Dialog nicht fortgesetzt werden
kann, solange wenn
die politischen Bedingungen nicht gegeben sind. Deswegen hat
das Ezln
ge=E4usert dass, wenn die politisch int eressierte
Gesellschaft etwas
unternehmen will, um die militarische Loesung zu verhindern,
muss sie das
jetzt tun, und um die mexikanische Regierung zu dr=E4ngen,
den Dialog Ernst
zu nehmen.=20

In dieser Situation zwischen Krieg und Frieden, rufen die
Berater und
Gaeste des EZLN im "San Andres Dialog" den Teil der
Weltbevoelkerung, ,
der eine friedige, gerechtige und wuerdige Loesung in
Chiapas
befuerwortet, dazu auf, die Internationalen Aktione n in
Unterstuetzung
zum "Dialogo de San Andres" zu organisieren. Diese Aktion
begint am 8.
Juni, mit Demonstrationen vor den mexikanischen Botschaften
und Konsulaten
in aller Welt und gleichzeitig verschiedenen Demostrationen
in Mexiko. Es
ist sehr wichti g, dass ihr Briefaktionen an den Presidenten
Ernesto
Zedillo (fax 271-1764) und des Verteidigungsminister General
Enrique
Cervantes (fax 395-2935)startet. Unsere wichtigsten
Forderungen sind:=20

- Der Rucksueck der Mexikanischen Armee in ihre Kassernen,
gemaess Artikel
129 des mexikanischen Grundgesetzes; schluss mit der
Belaestigung der
Bevoelkerung von Chiapas; die Sendung von Naehrungsmitteln
zur fuer die
Zivilbevoelkerung in der Konfliktzone,
 in der aufgrund der militaerischen Besetzung nicht geset
werden konnte.=20
- Das Zuruecknahme der Gerichtlichenanklage des Terrorismus,
und die
Freilassung Javier Elorreagas und Sebastian Entzins, und
aller anderen 16
angeblichen Zapatististen.=20
- Das Wiederaufnahme der Friedensverhandlungen,
und einer klaren und glauwuerdige Entscheidung der Regierung
die Probleme,
die den Konflikt hevorgerufen haben, zu loesen.=20

Als Symbol der Aktion, schlagen wir vor, kleine Luftballons,
mit der
Aufschrift "Ihr seid nicht allein", fliegenzulassen (im
Gedaechtins an die
Pariser Kommune und deren Aufruf die Hoffnung nicht zu
verlieren)

Wir bedanken uns herztlich fuer eure Teilnahme an dieser
Aktion fuer das
Leben und gegen den kriegerischen Umtriebe der Regierung.=20

Mexiko Stadt, 23. Mai, 1996.

Beraeter und Gaeste der Ejercito Zapatista de Liberaci=F3n
Nacional in dem
"Dialogo de San Andres".=20








.
<hr>2/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-11</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B037-269</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108112007 text/html 753
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:19:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 596
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: ghellein@chass.utoronto.ca
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: change of address
Date: 06 Jun 1996 04:39:47

From: gerry helleiner  ghellein@chass.utoronto.ca 

Please note my new e-mail address.  Thanks.  GH
.
<hr>3/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-12</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B037-321</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108112051 text/html 4303
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:20:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4145
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Elorriaga and Entzin Freed!
Date: 06 Jun 1996 21:16:41



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
                              
                              
                              
                              
                              
         National Commission for Democracy in Mexico
               601 N. Cotton St., Suite #A103
                      El Paso, TX 79902
                     ph/fx (915)532-8382
                email: moonlight@igc.apc.org
                              
                              
                  National Press Conference
                  1:30 MST, Friday June 7th
     In front of the Mexican Consulate in El Paso, Texas
                  910 East San Antonio St.
                              
                              
                      Cecilia Rodriguez
                 United States Representative
        of the Zapatista Army of National Liberation

Will hold a press to release a statement and answer
questions regarding the release in Mexico of two political
prisoners, Javier Elorriaga and Sebastian Entzin, accused of
terrorism, rebellion, and sedition for their alleged
involvement with the EZLN.



-------------- Enclosure number 2 ----------------
Via REUTER: from KPFK

Two alleged Mexican rebels freed on appeal

     TUXTLA GUTIERREZ- A judge acting of an appeal freed two
alleged Zapatista rebels from jail Thursday, opening the way
for stalled peace talks between the guerrillas and the
government to resume.
     Superior Court Judge Enrique Duran quashed the long
jail sentences for terrorism and rebellion imposed by a
lower court and set the men free, Uriel Jarguin, under-
secretary for government in the southern state of Chiapas,
told Reuters.
     The alleged rebels, Javier Elorriaga and Sebastian
Entzin, were sentenced May 2 to jail terms of 13 and six
years respectively.
     The appeal judge in the Chiapas state capital of Tuxtla
Gutierrez, 500 miles southeast of Mexico City, upheld a two-
year sentence for arms offenses against Entzin but freed him
of bail because he had already spent 16 months in jail.
     The harshness of the original verdicts, reached on the
basis of a written statement from a witness who never
appeared in court despite six summonses, provoked an angry
reaction from the Zapatista leadership.
     Rebel leader Subcommander Marcos said from his jungle
hideout June 1 that the Zapatistas would not resume stalled
peace talks with the government until the two men were
freed.
     Plans for a fresh round of talks June 5 were put on
hold and newspaper columnists speculated that the rebels
might be forced back into violence unless the tension eased.
     Marcos accused hard-liners in President Zedillo's
administration of provoking confrontation with the rebels,
suggesting they had engineered the court sentences to
undermine the peace negotiations.
     The government insisted that the justice process was
completely independent of the peace process and denied that
either the initial sentence or the freeing on appeal were
the result of any political pressure from Mexico City.
     Elorriaga and Entzin allegedly took part in the
uprising by Mayan Indians in the southern Mexican state of
Chiapas, where Zapatista rebels launched their revolt for
democracy and indigenous rights in January 1994.
     The two men had been in jail since February 1995, when
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo launched a crackdown
against the rebel forces.
     Elorriaga, a television journalist who also had served
as a go-between between Zedillo and the Zapatista guerrilla
leader Subcommandante Marcos, denied ever belonging to the
proscribed guerrilla movement.

.
<hr>4/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-13</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B037-375</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108112138 text/html 19511
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:20:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 19352
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: wild@edf.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: W. Banks IPM Policy
Date: 10 Jun 1996 12:08:55

From: Kenneth Walsh  wild@edf.org 

                                      
                                      
ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND
1875 Connecticut Ave., NW, 10th Fl.
Washington, D.C.  20009
Tel.: 202 387-3500; Fax: 202 234-6049; wild@edf.org

Date:      June 10, 1996         Number of pages:

To:From:   Kenneth Walsh for Mimi Kleiner

Re:World Bank's Policy on Integrated Pest Management

The following document is an NGO letter to World Bank staff concerning
IPM.  I am posting it to several EcoNet conferences as well as directly to a
number of e-mail accounts.  NGOs wanting to get involved with this effort or
needing more information can contact Mimi Kleiner at the above
address/fax/telephone or write her at mimi@edf.org


+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+++++++
                         Bank Information Center
                Consumer Policy Institute/Consumer's Union
                        Environmental Defense Fund
            Food First--Institute for Food and Development Policy
                    Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy 
                      Partners in Rural Development
                 Pesticide Action Network, North America
              Rural Advancement Foundation International, U.S.A.
                    World Sustainable Agriculture Association




Mr. Douglas Forno
Division Chief, Agriculture and Forestry
1750 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. (S 8131)
Washington, D.C.  20433

Dear Mr. Forno:

We are writing as a group of organizations closely watching and keenly
interested in the articulation and implementation of the Bank's IPM policy,
which is currently set forth in the Bank's operational directive (4.03) on
Agricultural Pest Management.  To begin, we would like to congratulate
the Bank on turning such a critical eye on its own operations in the draft
document (March 1996) entitled  Integrated Pest Management: Strategy
and Policy Options for Promoting Effective Implementation.   

Some of its findings are as follows:  out of 150 projects which were
reviewed, this draft IPM strategy paper found only 22 projects which
actually planned to implement an IPM approach.  Of these, 11
projects financed both pesticide use and IPM implementation.  The
Bank financed at least $250.75 million worth of pesticides between
January 1988 and January 1995, yet Bank support for IPM in the 22
above-mentioned projects amounted to only $81 million--$52 million
of which went to just two projects.  In addition, the paper states that a
review of some 160 recent agricultural sector studies did not reveal
any instance where pesticide issues were addressed,  and that in their
present form, environmental assessments and analyses are of limited
value for promoting sustainable pest management.  With regards to
pesticide procurement, although  the Bank encourages member
countries to accept and apply international quality standards, the over-
riding consideration is the Bank's overall procurement policy of
obtaining qualified products for the lowest price.  Thus, the paper
finds that  Bank procedures tend to discount the importance of
registration, and also favor the procurement of sizeable tenders of a
limited number of pesticides.   The draft IPM strategy paper does not
indicate whether the Bank's IPM investments have, in fact, reduced
reliance on pesticide use.

Recognition of deficiencies is an important first step in making the
fundamental and essential changes in Bank operations necessary for
future agricultural projects to achieve the Bank's goals of
environmentally sustainable and participatory development. However,
beyond such recognition lies the crucial step of swiftly adjusting
course so that the Bank can meet the very real and urgent needs of
farmers to develop their own locally appropriate, economically and
ecologically viable agricultural systems.  We are concerned about the
Bank's failure to implement its policies on pest management over the
course of a decade, as well as the disconnect between pest
management in the Bank's own operations and its commitments under
the FAO/IBRD/UNDP/UNEP IPM Facility.  While we view the draft
IPM strategy paper as a positive initiative which raises many
important issues, in its present form the draft contains numerous
inconsistencies and leaves many issues unresolved.

With this in mind, we offer the following comments and
recommendations to assist the Bank in developing a sound IPM policy
and a more effective strategy for its implementation:

1).  The draft IPM strategy paper's findings of a systematic failure to
implement the Bank's IPM policy are alarming for several reasons.
First, the Bank has had policies requiring integration of IPM into
Bank projects for over 10 years--since 1985.  Second, for several
years the Bank has declared that environmentally sustainable
development is one of its three major objectives; yet IPM has been
given minimal attention even though it is one of the best documented,
most effective sustainable development approaches for the agriculture
sector, which is the World Bank's historically largest lending sector.  

2). Equally disturbing is the extremely low profile which IPM
apparently still has at the Bank, as exemplified in the recent
agricultural action plan,  From Vision to Action in the Rural Sector.  
This document advocates increased attention to natural resource
management, but fails to spell out any convincing IPM strategy, let
alone one based on farmer-led participatory processes.  We are
concerned at the obvious implication that refinement of the March
1996 draft IPM strategy document would have no bearing on the
Bank's plans to operationalize its agricultural investment strategies,
nor be reflected in its actions in the rural sector.

3).  Central to a cogent IPM strategy is a clear definition of the term,
IPM.  Current state- of-the-art definitions focus on farmers as the
central actors, innovators and implementors of IPM.  Such definitions
highlight farmers  use of ecological principles in the analysis of their
local environment and the management of their farming systems. 
Excellent conceptions of IPM have been put forward by the FAO
Inter-Country Program for IPM in South and Southeast Asia, the
Philippine and Indonesian National IPM Programs, and the Concept
Paper of the IPM Facility.  This approach has proven both efficient
and economical, having been effectively applied with positive results
on yields.  Another important element of the state-of-the-art definition
is reduced reliance on pesticides.  The concept of bio-intensive IPM,
in which pesticides are used as a last resort, has been articulated in a
separate draft paper,  Technology Transfer, Competition, and Trade
Liberalization for Reduced Risk Pest Management,  which is being
produced by the Bank's trade division.  The current IPM strategy
paper, however, uses the U. S. Department of Agriculture definition,
which emphasizes merely mixing and matching a range of techniques,
and falls far short of the scope and depth of these other definitions.  
With the USDA definition heading off the draft IPM strategy paper, it
is not clear whether reduced reliance on pesticides will be a goal of
future Bank operations.

We therefore urge the Bank to revise its definition of IPM to better
reflect the ecological and economic state of the art elucidated in the
concepts referred to above.  This new definition should influence
policy, staff selection, incentives and training, strategy efforts such as
the current draft paper, country assistance strategies, sectoral studies,
all stages of the project cycle, and procurement practices.

4).  An important improvement to the Bank's IPM policy would be
the adoption of a precautionary principle for the use of pesticides, i.e.
pesticides should only be used after other alternative approaches have
been tried.  Such a principle would be similar to the Bank's 1991
forest policy precautionary commitment concerning utilization of
tropical moist forests.  In the case of pesticides, such a precautionary
principle is clearly justified by the current inability to achieve full
valuation of the benefits of biodiversity, beneficial insects, clean
water, public health, etc., and the difficulties and uncertainties in
guaranteeing safe use of pesticides in many regulatory and climatic
conditions, as well as the irreversibility of environmental and health
impacts associated with pesticide use.

5).  As recommended by the draft strategy paper, the operational
directive on environmental assessment should be revised to ensure
sufficient consideration of pest management issues and the exploration
of IPM as an alternative approach in Bank projects.  Such changes
would necessarily increase the number of Bank projects with pest
management implications that require full, category A, environmental
impact assessments.

6).  World Bank management should develop fora to bring together
Bank agricultural staff, ecologically-oriented IPM specialists, and
experts in implementing successful farmer-led IPM programs through
participatory, non-formal, largely field-based education processes. 
Such collaboration should lead to a better articulation and analysis of
current and proposed pest management practices in the Bank's country
assistance strategies and sectoral studies.  The specialized knowledge
of ecological pest management should also inform staff selection and
training.  We note that Mr. Wolfensohn, in his efforts to bring about
the  culture of results,  is putting a new emphasis on staff training.

7).  Bank staff should send a strong operational signal that
implementation failures will be taken seriously and that farmer-led,
bio-intensive IPM will be made a priority in Bank projects.  The
Bank's credibility in this will depend in part on admitting past
mistakes by including the chapter on implementation in the public
version of the IPM strategy document.

8).  The draft IPM strategy paper includes an excellent description of
the components of successful IPM - the truly "decentralized, farmer-
centered research, extension and training" which has been the
hallmark of IPM implementation in a number of projects in Asia. 
However, this section appears largely unrelated to most of the rest of
the document, which fails to adequately detail how the Bank itself will
help create the "enabling conditions" that would facilitate local,
national and regional development of such farmer-led educational
programs.  Thus, the draft IPM strategy paper should examine the
ability of the Bank's dominant model of extension, training and
visitation, to implement a  facilitative  approach to IPM education.  A
1994 study by the Bank's own Operations Evaluations Department,
 Lessons and Practices: Agricultural Extension,  has found training
and visitation to be too uniform and top-down, and to have weak
linkages between research and extension.  This study also found the
training and visitation model to lack participation, knowledge of
specific conditions of individual farming systems, responsive services,
applicable technology and quality staff.  While the draft strategy paper
does mention that governments can help to create incentives for more
decentralized IPM initiatives, we would like to see a more thorough
discussion of the Bank's role in this process. 

9).  The revised IPM strategy paper should also explore ways of
improving pest management plans, and examine more fully the
implications for IPM of the pesticide industry's influence on research, 
extension and farmers.

10).  The Bank's recent agricultural action plan recommends a
portfolio review of agriculture projects.  We believe the Bank should
undertake a field-based, Bank-wide review of its IPM investments. 
This review should include projects which also finance pesticides, and
should involve multiple stakeholders:  Bank staff, beneficiaries and
those affected by Bank projects, outside experts, NGOs, and other
interested parties.  This review should also make specific, binding
recommendations for future investments.  A good precedent for such a
review is the 1994 Bank-wide review of resettlement.  Some
suggestions of issues to address include:
    a).the preparation and implementation of pest management
         plans,
    b).the development of baselines for inclusion in future pest
         management plans and Bank operations, and for use in mid-term
         review and final evaluation of Bank projects.  Examples include: 
         the extent of farmer utilization of ecological knowledge in pest
         management decision-making; levels of pesticide use, sales,
         imports and exports; toxicity of pesticides commonly sold and
         used; expenditures for pesticides and pesticide-use trainings
         versus field-based IPM trainings; presence of direct or hidden
         pesticide subsidies, presence of participatory, farmer-centered
         educational programs; and linkages between such programs and
         pesticide subsidy reductions.
    c).the breakdown of past spending on IPM and pesticides,
         including expenses for technology development, institutional
         strengthening, farmer field education, credit, policy adjustments, 
         etc.,
    d).the development of criteria for evaluating
         research/extension/farmer linkages in line with the  facilitative
         model  specified in the draft IPM strategy paper and promoted in
         the IPM Facility concept paper,
    e).the development of criteria for evaluating whether a pro-
         pesticide bias exists in the research and extension services during
         project preparation, monitoring and  supervision,
    f).and an examination of how the privatization of input supply
         and extension services affects pest management practices.

11).  Bank management should send an explicit signal to staff that
compliance with pest management policy is required for all Bank
operations that may directly or indirectly influence or entail pesticide 
use, such as structural adjustment and aquaculture projects, not just
those that finance new agricultural production, intensification or
diversification schemes.

12).  The issues mentioned in this letter and in the draft IPM strategy
paper should be addressed in the upcoming operational policy (4.09)
and Bank procedures on pesticide use/pest management.

13).  Finally, we would also like to know how the upcoming
Environmentally Sustainable Development conference will address
rural toxics and IPM.  Since pest management and public health are
crucial to the theme of the conference--rural well-being--they should
be highlighted.

If correctly implemented, IPM has much to offer in the way of
sustainable agricultural production, the empowerment of rural
communities, environmental protection, and public health.  Equally
significant and promising is the reduction in expenditures at not only
household and community levels, but also at national and regional
levels, as well as the reduction in the use of and reliance on toxic
chemical pesticides.  Thus, an essential part of the Bank's
participation in the IPM Facility is getting its own house in order.

The pilot activities of the FAO/IBRD/UNDP/UNEP Facility have
enormous potential to build on existing successes in Asia and extend
them to other regions of the world. Yet the few funds allotted to the
IPM Facility are but a drop in the bucket of World Bank operations. 
In contrast, the magnitude of Bank investment in agricultural
development operations which do not include a genuinely effective
IPM component could easily overwhelm not only any future progress
of the Facility, but also much of the progress to date in ecological pest
management carried out by a few governments and many non-
governmental organizations worldwide.

We would like to see the World Bank address these issues in a revised
policy/strategy document, and take a more proactive approach when
implementing its IPM policy in all its operations, as described above. 
We believe the Bank could profit from consultation with local NGOs,
particularly from developing countries, and we strongly encourage it
to do so during the process of revising this draft paper.  We welcome
further dialogue with the World Bank regarding the issues raised in
our letter, and other related issues which you may wish to explore. 
We look forward to seeing a revised version of the IPM strategy
paper, and would be happy to provide additional comments then as
well.

Sincerely,
         



Mimi Kleiner                     Bruce Rich
Policy Analyst                   Director, International Program
Environmental Defense Fund       Environmental Defense Fund


Chad Dobson                      Dr. Jonathan Fox
Secretary                        Research Associate
Bank Information Center          Bank Information Center

Dr. Michael K. Hansen
Research Associate
Consumer Policy Institute/Consumer's Union

Dr. Peter Rosset  (IPM specialist)
Executive Director
Food First -- The Institute for Food and
    Development Policy

Mark Ritchie
President
Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy

Bruce Moore
Executive Director
Partners in Rural Development, Ottowa, Canada

Dr. Marcia Ishii-Eiteman
Senior Program Coordinator
Pesticide Action Network, North America

Michael Sligh
Director, Sustainable Agriculture Program
Rural Advancement Foundation International, U.S.A.

Linda Elswick                          Dr. J. Patrick Madden
Washington Office                      President
World Sustainable Agriculture          World Sustainable Agriculture
Association                            Association 

Cc:
World Bank Staff
Mr. Tjaart Schillhorn Van Veen, Agriculture Technology and Services
Division, World Bank

Mr. Alexander McCalla, Director, Agriculture and Natural Resources
Department, World Bank

Mr. Ismail Serageldin, Vice President, Environmentally Sustainable
Development, World Bank

Membership/Resource Persons of Inter-Agency Taskforce on IPM (as
of  11/94)
Dr. N. A. van der Graaff, Chief, AGPP (Plant Protection Service),
Food and Agriculture Organization

Dr. Nyle Brady, Senior Agricultural Adviser, Global and Inter-
Regional Programmes, United Nations Development Program

Dr. Gabrielle Persley, Agriculture and Natural Resources Department,
World Bank

Dr. H. Gopalan, United Nations Environment Program

Dr. Peter Kenmore, FAO Inter-Country Programme on IPM in Rice,
FAO Regional Office for Asia

Dr. Jeff Waage, CAB International, International Institute for
Biological Control


Attached:  Environmental Defense Fund comments entitled  IPM in
Recent World Bank Strategy Documents 

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Note:

John Gersham, Research Associate, Institute for Development
Research, signed onto to the above letter after May 24, 1996 (i.e., the
date the letter was sent).


.
<hr>5/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-14</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-32</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108112223 text/html 785
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:21:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 628
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: rteural@criba.edu.ar
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: News & Notices #13,   Sec.III.  Wor
Date: 11 Jun 1996 19:33:27

From: rteural@criba.edu.ar (Carlos Abeledo)
Subject: Re: News & Notices #13,   Sec.III.  World Bank Make-over

q
q
exot
.
<hr>6/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-15</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-70</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108112313 text/html 1455
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:22:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1297
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: 029EDW@muse.arts.wits.ac.za
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO
Date: 22 Jun 1996 02:44:25

From: "PROF EDWARD CHARLES WEBSTER"  029EDW@muse.arts.wits.ac.za 
Subject:       Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO G7: IF YOU HAVE NOT 


Thanks very much for sending me this interesting letter . I am 
reading it and hope to come back to you soon.

In the meantime, could you please send a copy of thism letter to my 
colleague jacklyn cock - co-authoe of the piece on SIAs for the 
Rethinking Bretton Woods confercne in 1994 - she works with an 
environment NGO -GEM - which may be keen to sign it. her email number 
is - 029jack@muse.arts.wits.ac.za

Regards

Eddie Webster

Professor E Webster
Director: Sociology of Work Unit
University of the Witwatersrand
Private Bag 3   Wits  2050

Phone no: 27 11 716 2908
Fax no:   27 11 716 3781
Email 029edw@muse.arts.wits.ac.za
.
<hr>7/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-16</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-120</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108112405 text/html 20780
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:23:16 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 20621
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: apsari@violet.berkeley.edu
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO
Date: 23 Jun 1996 01:37:30

From: apsari@violet.berkeley.edu (Agus P. Sari)
Subject: Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO G7: IF YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY SIGNED, PLEASE CONSIDER IT NOW.  LAST FEW DAYS!

Jim --
        I will sign this, please put my name as:
        Agus P. Sari
        Pelangi Indonesia
        Indonesia


At 03:07 PM 6/21/96 +0200, James Barnes wrote:
>June 21, 1996
>
>Dear Friends --
>
>Here is the latest (and we hope final) version of the proposed Open Letter
>to the G-7 Governments coming to Lyon, on IFIs.  Please send us an email or
>fax or phone us during the next few days if you want to sign the letter,
>along with the full name of your organization.  Please also share the
>letter with others who you think may wish to sign it.  If you are already
>listed as signing, please verify the spelling of name and organization.
>
>The final version of the letter will be formally released on Friday, June
>28, as the Economic Summit begins, at a press conference in the morning and
>also will be hand delivered to each G7 country's delegation in Lyon the
>night before.
>
>Many thanks for your help.
>
>Sincerely,
>
>Jim Barnes
>Friends of the Earth International
>
>PS: You can contact Roberta, Helene, Sandrine or me in the following ways
>until Saturday, June 22:
>Telephone: 33-1-4887-7848 (office); 33-5381-3827 (Jim Home)
>Fax: 33-1-4887-2823 or 33-5381-3827
>Emails: james.barnes@wanadoo.fr
>           jbarnes@igc.apc.org
>
>***************************************************
>
>                                                                DRAFT
>
>
>Open Letter to the Governments of the G7
>
>                                                                June 21,=
 1996
>
>Dear G-7 Leaders,
>
>We are writing you to follow up on decisions you made at the Halifax Summit
>in 1995 regarding steps toward more Sustainable Development.  In essence,
>you outlined an agenda for reforming the World Bank and the IMF.
>
>Here are extracts from the Halifax Communiqu=E9.  NGOs interpret these
>commitments seriously, and hereby propose some specific, concrete actions
>for G-7 governments to take in order to give effect to those commitments,
>which will  bring greater public accountability to the World Bank, IMF and
>regional development banks..1
>
>I. The World Bank
>
>A. Environmental and Social Policies
>
>1. Return to Poverty Reduction as the Prime Mission
>
>"It is essential that the MDBs narrow their focus and increasingly direct
>their lending toward... programs such as those which support primary
>education and health care or protection of the environment." (Background
>Doc., Paragraph 2, p.11)
>
>The World Bank's Board of Governors should instruct the Executive Directors
>and Bank management to examine the current proportion of lending for social
>and poverty alleviation programs, and set short and medium term timetables
>to increase lending for such purposes as micro-enterprise lending, and
>population, education and health programs.  Since 70% of the world's poor
>are women, programs identified and directed by and for women must receive
>priority.  Furthermore, it is necessary to provide merit-based secondary
>and higher education for children from poorer families to break the cycle
>of poverty.
>
>2. Implement Stronger Environmental and Social Policies
>
>"Work... to ensure relevant multilateral institutions: make sustainable
>development a central goal of their policies and programmes, by
>intensifying and deepening the integration of environmental considerations
>into all aspects of their programmes." (Communiqu=E9, Paragraph 26, p.5)
>
>The World Bank should ensure that improved internal mechanisms are in place
>so that sustainable development policies (including the new access to
>information and participation policies) are fully incorporated in lending
>operations. The Bank should also increase women's access to productive
>resources.
>
>3. Safeguard the Environment - Meet Earth Summit Commitments
>
>"We underline the importance of meeting the commitments we made at the 1992
>Rio Earth Summit and subsequently, and the need to review and strengthen
>them, where appropriate.  Climate change remains of major global
>importance." (Communiqu=E9, Paragraph 32, p.6)
>
>The Bank should have binding operational policies to incorporate impacts on
>climate change and biodiversity in appraising all project and sector loans.
>Further, the Bank should put a higher priority on demand-side management
>and conservation investments in the energy, water resources and transport
>sectors.
>
>4. Reduce Military Spending and Increase Social Investments
>
>"We will work with others to encourage relevant multilateral institutions
>to:... take trends in military and other unproductive spending into account
>in extending assistance;" and "...direct a substantially increased
>proportion of their resources to basic social programmes and other measures
>which attack the roots of poverty." (Communiqu=E9, Paragraph 28, p.5)
>
>"The MDBs should also give serious consideration to sharply reducing their
>lending programs in any country that does not clearly demonstrate a firm
>commitment to poverty reduction." (Communiqu=E9, Para.3, p.12)
>
>The Bank should rate borrowing countries according to the extent military
>and other unproductive expenditures harm domestic investment priorities.
>Borrowing countries exceeding these limits should then be alerted that
>without changes in investment priorities their access, to assistance will
>be compromised.
>
>B. Procedural Reforms
>
>1. Implement Transparency and Public Accountability Measures
>
>"...encourage countries to follow participatory development strategies" and
>"support... reforms that assure transparency and public accountability, a
>stable rule of law, and an active civil society." (Communiqu=E9, Para.26,
>p.5)
>
>Given that the most effective way for the MDBs to achieve greater public
>accountability and transparency is to practice these principles in their
>internal operations, the Bank should adhere to these principles.
>
>The establishment of the World Bank's Inspection Panel has been the most
>credible innovation, to date, in promoting greater public accountability of
>the World Bank.  It should be strengthened and made permanent later this
>year.  The Inspection Panel's jurisdiction should be extended to cover the
>International Finance Corporation and MIGA (the Bank's guarantees window).
>The Bank should not reduce the scope of action of the Panel by excluding
>crucial issues such as those related to contracts.  It should not
>continuously question the legitimacy of claimants and it should not use
>complex legal pretexts to hamper the Panel's activities.
>
>We urge that the review of the Inspection Panel be an open and transparent
>process, and that the views of NGOs, community groups and other independent
>experts be solicited and fully taken into account.
>
>2. Greater Integration of Private Sector Windows in the World Bank
>
>"We will encourage The World Bank Group to integrate more effectively the
>activities of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the
>Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) into its country assistance
>strategies." (Communiqu=E9, Para.35, p,7)
>
>The Bank should require a greater, upward harmonization of IFC and MIGA
>operational policies with existing Bank policies, especially with
>environmental, social and public information policies.
>
>C. Debt Relief for the Poorest Countries
>
>1. Resolve the Debt Crisis Situation - Proceed with Multilateral Debt=
 Relief
>
>"We will encourage: the Bretton Woods institutions to develop a
>comprehensive approach to assist counties with multilateral debt burdens,
>through better use of all existing World Bank and IMF resources and
>adoption of appropriate measures in the multilateral development banks to
>advance this objective" (Communiqu=E9, Para.29, p.6)
>
>The World Bank and IMF should cancel immediately (without waiting for 6
>years) the poorest countries' multilateral debts -- mainly in Africa,
>except for those countries ruled by dictatorships or corrupt regimes.  The
>Bank and the Fund should set up a mechanism to ensure that new loans
>granted to such countries are used towards sustainable development and
>poverty reduction.
>
>Analyses of country debt sustainability and program proposals by the Bank
>and the IMF should be made public to determine the amount of debt reduction
>needed in each case in order to attain a sustainable debt level ( including
>bilateral and commercial debt obligations).
>
>2. Multilateral Debt Facility
>
>"We look forward to the recommendations of the Development Committee's Task
>Force on Multilateral Development Banks." (Communiqu=E9, Para.25, p.4)
>
>Bank Governors should support the Bank's proposal to resolve the
>multilateral debt problem by setting up a special fund.  This fund would be
>financed by the Bank's net income, some of its reserves, gold sales from
>the IMF reserves and contributions from Western countries.  This mechanism
>should not be conditioned on structural adjustment programs, as is the case
>with the draft proposal now.  Harsh, conventional structural adjustment
>programs are ineffective and harmful to the populations and the
>environment.  Furthermore, the new special fund should not be financed with
>IDA resources.
>
>3. The New Debt Risk: Private Debt
>
>"Recognizing the complex legal and other issues posed in debt crisis
>situations by the wide variety of sources of international finance
>involved, we would encourage further review by the G-10 Ministers and
>Governors of other procedures that might also usefully be considered for
>their orderly resolution." (Communiqu=E9, Para.20, p.4)
>
>Governors from all member states of the World Bank and the IMF should
>identify and establish mechanisms to address new categories of sovereign
>debt such as debt owed to private individuals through mutual funds and bond
>issues.  An early priority should be to examine the feasibility of an
>Independent Debt Arbitration Panel.
>
>4. The Paris Club
>
>There also is an urgent need for agreement at this G-7 Summit on extending
>the "Naples" terms to 90% relief, and on a wider range of Paris Club debt
>to be eligible for the new 90% figure.  Agreement on Paris Club debt
>reduction is vital at this Summit, as it apparently can't happen anywhere
>else for a year, and has also been linked to the pending proposals on
>multilateral debt reduction.
>
>
>II. International Monetary Fund
>
>A. Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
>
>Michel Camdessus, Director of the IMF, plans to ask G-7 governments meeting
>in Lyon to permanently establish the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
>Facility (ESAF) with some of its gold reserves, and to count this as part
>of the mechanism to resolve the debt problem of the poorest countries.
>
>NGOs are opposed to the permanent replenishment of ESAF, whose activities
>need to be checked regularly.  IMF member states need to retain control
>over conditions imposed on the poorest countries by the IMF and especially
>by its conventional structural adjustment programs.  NGOs ask that
>governments set up a mechanism to control ESAF, and urge them to reject the
>IMF's request for authority to sell 5% of its gold reserves to replenish
>ESAF.  Instead, the IMF must be required to use some of its gold reserves
>for the Multilateral Debt Reduction Facility.
>
>For years now the IFIs have used various soft-loan windows for the
>re-financing and recycling of debt.  The only result has been a growing and
>unsustainable multilateral debt burden for the poorest countries. It is
>time to put an end to the re-financing of debt, through for example, ESAF,
>and to offer the poorest countries debt reduction.
>
>B. Promote Financial Stability in a Globalized Economy
>
>"Wherever feasible, the Fund should be more open and transparent in its
>assessments and policy advice." (Background Doc,., Para.4, p.6)
>
>The IMF Board of Governors must insist that the Fund institute a new
>information policy as soon as possible.  As a minimum standard, that policy
>should be at least as transparent as the World Bank's current policy and
>should include public access to such documents as Article IV Consultations,
>Annual Reports on Recent Economic Developments, Letters of Intent and
>Policy Framework Papers.  Moreover, there must be public consultation with
>relevant social agencies, parliaments and civil society in developing
>structural adjustment programs.
>
>C. Reinforce Coherence, Effectiveness and Efficiency of Institutions
>
>"To increase overall coherence, cooperation and cost effectiveness we will
>work with others to encourage: improved coordination among international
>organizations, bilateral donors and NGOs." (Communiqu=E9, Para.37, p.8)
>
>Governors should encourage IMF staff to collaborate with NGOs and
>independent experts to ensure that its programs are compatible with
>sustainable development goals determined by civil society.
>
>The Fund's Board of Governors should instruct the Executive directors to
>work with the World Bank, relevant UN Agencies and bilateral aid agencies
>to ensure that Fund stabilization and adjustment programs do not work at
>cross purposes with the development strategies of civil society
>organizations.
>
>In this context, we also submit that it is entirely inappropriate for the
>IMF to be engaged in long-term development financing.  The IMF is a
>monetary institution whose remit is to provide short-term balance of
>payments support to countries in difficulties.  The IMF has neither the
>staff, the skills nor the experience to constructively assist countries in
>need of development finance.
>
>D. Economic Policy and Exchange Market Cooperation
>
>"The most effective route to greater exchange market stability lies in the
>pursuit of sound domestic monetary and fiscal policies." (Background Doc.,
>Para.4, p.3)
>
>Governors of the World Bank and the IMF need to ensure that programs of
>economic stabilization concretely contribute to an equitable distribution
>of resources, which is not the case with conventional structural adjustment
>programs.
>
>E. Strengthening Financial Market Supervision and Regulation
>
>"We look forward to the development and further enhancement of concrete
>international understandings, where necessary and appropriate, on the
>safeguards, standards, transparency and systems necessary to reduce
>potential risks." (Background Doc., Para.6, p.9)
>
>In order to decrease the extreme volatility of massive speculative capital
>flows, the Fund should study and facilitate harmonization of Security and
>Exchange regulations among the major trading countries.  This harmonization
>should be followed by an agreement upon a special fee which should be set
>in place to "kick in" when there is too much volatility in the market, like
>the circuit-breaker mechanism used in computer-based trading.  The fee
>could be adjustable, increasing with higher volatility.
>
>F. Undertake an Examination of Future Policy Directions
>
>"We would also encourage the IMF to establish its own independent
>evaluation unit." (Background Doc., Para.7, p.12)
>
>The establishment of an independent evaluation unit at the IMF is long
>overdue.  The Fund's Governors should instruct Fund management to make sure
>that the audit department has the necessary independence and budget needed
>to effectively conduct periodic evaluations of effectiveness as well as of
>the impacts of specific policy prescriptions recommended by the Fund and
>its overall adjustment programs in the areas of poverty, environment and
>balance of payments stability.  These audits should be made public.
>
>
>***
>
>We look forward to a serious dialogue about these issues with you and your
>representatives during this Summit in Lyon and in the future.  We request
>that the G-7 Governments and the EC involve us and other NGOs in following
>up on these recommendations, and urge that you prepare a joint response to
>this letter by August 31.
>
>
>                                                Sincerely yours,
>
>
>James N. Barnes                                 John Hontelez
>Friends of the Earth International              Chair, FOEI
>France                                          Netherlands
>
>Ann Pettifor                                    Ted Van Hees
>Debt Crisis Network                             Eurodad
>United Kingdom                                  Belgium
>
>Annie Amirda and H=E8l=E9ne Ballande                Yuri Onodera
>Amis de la Terre                                Friends of the Earth
>France                                          Japan
>
>Tomasz Terlecki                                 Rainer Falk
>CEE Bankwatch Network                           WEED
>Poland                                          Germany
>
>Helga Cukure                                    Katrin Seifert
>VAK-Friends of the Earth                        Euronatur
>Latvia                                          Germany
>
>Francesco Martone                               Laura Radiconcini
>Crocovia                                        Amici della Terra
>Italy                                           Italy
>
>Hernan Verscheure                               Olaf Dierker
>CODEFF-Friends of the Earth                     Urgewald
>Chile                                           Germany
>
>Jean-Marie Fardeau                              Pavel Pribyl
>Agir Ici                                        Hnuti DUHA-FoE
>France                                          Czech Republic
>
>Linas Vainius                                   Kestutis Navickas
>Lithuanian Green Movement                                  Community
>"Atgaja"
>Lithuania                                       Lithuania
>
>Kevin Dunion                                    Arturo Palma
>Friends of the Earth                            Artisans du Monde
>Scotland                                        France
>
>Jozsef Feiler                                   Theo Ruyter
>ELTE Termeszetvedelmi Klub                      Both ENDS
>Hungary                                         Netherlands
>
>Marko Ulvila                                    Robin J. Round
>Coalition for Environment &                     Halifax Initiative
>Development, Finland                            Canada
>
>Peep Mardiste                                   Lisa McGowen
>Tartu Student Nature Protection                 50 Years Is Enough
>Group, Estonia                                  USA
>
>Marijke Torfs                                   Bruce Rich
>Friends of the Earth                            Environmental Defense Fund
>USA                                             USA
>
>Andrew Dilworth                                 Roberto Smeraldi
>Friends of the Earth                            Friends of the Earth
>United Kingdom                                  Amazonia, Brazil
>
>Alex Wilks                                      Blaine Marchand
>Bretton Woods Project                           Friends of the Earth
>United Kingdom                                  Canada
>
>Agnes Bertrand
>Ecoropa
>France
>
>1 This document is partly based on the Open Letter sent to the Governing
>Boards of the World Bank and the IMF in October 1995 by 30 North American,
>African, Latin American, European and Asian NGOs.  It has been updated to
>reflect the latest developments.
>
>
>
>
>
____________________________________________________________________________

Agus P. Sari                       Energy and Resources Group
14 Whitmore Place Apt#. 17         University of California, Berkeley
Oakland, CA 94611                  310 Barrows Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720-3050
(510)-654-2091                     (510)-642-6886, -642-8829
apsari@violet.berkeley.edu         Fax: (510)-642-1085

                               Check us out:
                          www.sdn.or.id/pelangi
-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D=
-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D-=3D

.
<hr>8/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-17</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-161</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108112451 text/html 5692
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:24:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5534
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: foeint@xs4all.nl
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: URGENT HELP NEEDED TO FREE NNIMMO B
Date: 24 Jun 1996 04:12:56

From: foeint  foeint@xs4all.nl 
Subject: URGENT HELP NEEDED TO FREE NNIMMO BASSEY!!!

PLEASE ACT NOW ON THIS URGENT MATTER!!!
 
 
Amsterdam, 24 June 1996
 
Nnimmo Bassey, a leading Nigerian environmentalist
and human rights campaigner, was detained on 5th
June as he was leaving the country to attend an
West African Friends of the Earth meeting in Ghana.
After the failed attempts to negotiate his freedom,
it now seems that the detention of Nnimmo Bassey
will become a long term concern. 
 
Amnesty International - who released an urgent
action about the Bassey case on June 13 - believes
that although Bassey may not be officially charged
with a recognizable criminal offence, he may become
a prisoner of conscience. Amnesty fears that he may
be facing ill-treatment in detention. 
 
Background information
 
Nnimmo Bassey (37), chairman of the Nigerian or-
ganization Environmental Rights Action and a lead-
ing member of OilWatch International, was arrested
on June 5 while travelling to attend a meeting of
West-African sections of Friends of the Earth in
Accra, Ghana. He is apparently being held at the
Federal Intelligence and Investigations Bureau
(FIIB) in Lagos, where he reportedly was told he
had been "wanted since 1994".  Although the reasons
for his arrest are unclear and he has not been
charged with any offense, it is feared that he was
arrested solely for his environmental and human
rights activities, and particularly for attending
the Friends of the Earth conference in Ghana.
 
WHAT CAN YOU DO
 
Now that it seems that the Nigerian authorities in
Abuja have arrested Nnimmo Bassey in order to avoid
"a second Ken Saro-Wiwa", WORLDWIDE ATTENTION TO
HIS CASE IS URGENTLY NEEDED. Nnimmo Bassey's name
has already been shown on banners at demonstrations
on June 12 in Dublin, London and Washington.
 
Maybe more important at this stage is DIPLOMATIC
PRESSURE. Please contact the Foreign Affairs Depar-
tment (or Minister) in your country, if you have
not yet done so. Urge your government to:
 
1. Ask the Nigerian authorities about the reasons
for the arrest. If Bassey has not been charged with
a recognizable criminal offense, the Nigerian gov-
ernment should release him immediately and uncon-
ditionally. 
2. Express concern about (or denounce) his arrest
to the Nigerian 
authorities.
3. Have DIPLOMATS OF YOUR COUNTRY ACCREDITED TO
LAGOS VISIT NNIMMO BASSEY IN PRISON (FIIB at Alag-
bon, Lagos).
You can also:
 
4.      Send urgent telegrams/telexes/faxes/express/airmail
letters that:                                  
        - express concern about the 5 June arrest and ask to be
informed about the reasons for the detention. - urge for his
immediate and unconditional release, if he has not been charged
with a recognizable criminal offense, and fairly tried according
to international standards for fair trial.
        - urge that he be allowed full and immediate access to
his lawyer and family and to appropriate medical care.
 
These appeals should be sent to the following:
 
        General Sani Abacha (Salutation: Dear General)
        Chairman, Provisional Ruling Council
        State House, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria
        Telegrams: General Abacha, Abuja, Nigeria
        Faxes: +234 9 523 2138
        Telexes: (0905) 91529 or 91530 EXTNAL NG
 
        Mr. Michael Agbamuche (Salutation: Dear Minister)
        Minister of Justice and Attorney General
        Ministry of Justice, PMB 130, Abuja
        Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria
        Telegrams: Justice Minister, Abuja, Nigeria
 
        Alhaji Ibrahim Coomasie 
        (Salutation: Dear Inspector General)
        Inspector General of Police
        Nigeria Police Force Headquarters
        Garki, Abuja, Nigeria
        Telegrams: Police Inspector General, Police HQ, Garki,
         Abuja, Nigeria
 
And copies of your appeals to:
- Chief Tom Ikimi, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Maputo Street, PMB 130, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria
- The Editor, The News, PMB 21531, Ijeka, Lagos, Nigeria
- The Editor, Tell, PMB 21749, Ijeka, Lagos, Nigeria
- The Editor, Vanguard, PMB 1007, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
- The Editor, The Guardian, PMB 1217, Oshodi, Lagos, Nigeria
 
Also please write/fax the Nigerian Embassy in your country as
embassies always have to report this to the Nigerian authorities
in Abuja. Letter writing actions to these embassies could also
be useful.
 
5.      Organise a visit of MPs to the Nigerian Embassy in your
country.
6.      Raise publicity for Bassey's case. You could, for
example, make use of the fact that he is a poet as well. We have
his "Poems on the Run", published in 1995, which includes a few
beautiful poems on freedom, suppression, and democracy. Available
for campaigning purposes.
 
Please, keep us informed about your activities. We will be happy
to provide information and materials.
 
Contact for more information: 
Irene Bloemink (FoE Netherlands, tel: 31 20 6202696; fax 31 20
6392333; e-mail: irene@foenl.antenna.nl) or the FoEI Secretariat
 

.
<hr>9/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-18</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-202</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108112614 text/html 9381
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:24:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9223
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: coc@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: G7 and CDebt
Date: 24 Jun 1996 14:08:12 -0800 (PST)

From:  coc@igc.apc.org 


To Jo Marie

Could you post this on the Breton Woods conference.

Thanks  

Oxfam International Briefing 

The Lyons G7 Summit - make or break for debt ?

June 24 1996

Summary

When leaders of the world's wealthiest
countries meet in Lyons for the G7 Summit,
debt owed by some of the world's poorest
countries will be high on their agenda for
discussion. Last year's Halifax Summit called
on the IMF and the World Bank to take the lead
in developing a comprehensive approach for
reducing multilateral debt and debt service to
sustainable levels. The time has now come to
implement a strategy for achieving those aims.

Progress to date has been slow in a number of
key areas. At this year's Summit, heads of
government need to reach agreement on sale of
IMF gold stocks and improved terms for
bilateral debt relief if there is to be a
chance of final agreement at the October
IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings.

Initial signs do not look hopeful. Despite
endless, complicated rounds of negotiations
over the last three years, a number of G7
countries plus the IMF continue to block
progress. Oxfam International fears that
despite the positive efforts of the UK, the US
and Canada, the refusal of the Germans,
Japanese and Italians to support the sale of
IMF gold combined with the IMF's attempts to
minimise both the size of the problem and its
contribution to a potential solution, will
result in a final package which fails to
reduce debt to sustainable levels.

There is a real danger that without the sale
of IMF gold stocks, resources to fund debt
relief will prove inadequate and that the
initiative will either founder or provide
benefits to only a handful of severely
indebted countries.
     
     Progress to date
     
Despite lack of progress on gold sales and
bilateral debt relief, progress has been made
on other aspects of the initiative. Recently,
the boards of the IMF and World Bank agreed in
principle on a framework for multilateral debt
reduction. That framework contains a number of
positive elements which, if effectively
implemented, could draw down the curtain on
the multilateral debt crisis. Two of its
principles are of particular importance.
First, by focusing on the totality of a
country's debt, the framework would end the
fragmented approach followed at present, in
which bilateral, commercial and multilateral
creditors pursue different - and often
divergent - debt strategies in an
uncoordinated fashion. Second, the framework
envisages an  exit' strategy in which the
target is overall debt sustainability, rather
than the competitive pursuit of creditor
claims. Oxfam International welcomes these
advances, while rejecting the conditions
proposed in the framework with regard to the
time-frame for implementation and the criteria
for determining eligibility. Our reservations
on the latter are outlined in a separate
briefing paper which is available on request.
(Oxfam International assessment of IMF-World
bank debt reduction initiative ).

IMF blocks progress

We remain particularly concerned about the
role of the IMF in meeting the objectives set
by the G7 countries, and in addressing the
debt problems of severely-indebted-low-income
countries (SILICs). From the outset, the IMF
has systematically understated the extent of
the multilateral debt problem, notably that
part which pertains to its own operations.
Only last year, the Fund was arguing that
between one and three countries required
multilateral debt relief. Independent analysts
put the figure closer to thirty. In its most
recent paper, the IMF continues to base its
assessment of individual countries' debt
sustainability on over-optimistic export
growth projections, thereby enabling it to
minimise the number of countries potentially
eligible for relief as well as the size of its
own contribution. 

The Fund's campaign of disinformation has
hindered progress towards a solution of the
debt crisis. So, too, has its failure to
exercise leadership in addressing the various
technical problems posed by multilateral debt
relief. Indeed, it is difficult to escape the
conclusion that the central concern of the
Fund's management has been to use technical
arguments as a means of obstructing serious
debate. Unfortunately, some G7 countries -
notably Germany and Japan - who are opposed in
principle to multilateral debt relief, have
seen their position strengthened by the IMF's
approach. 

Oxfam International is concerned that the
effectiveness of the proposed  multilateral
debt relief  initiative is being jeopardised
by the IMF. During the Spring meeting of the
World Bank and the IMF, the Fund's Managing
Director, Michel Camdessus, signalled that he
would not countenance involvement in such an
initiative without prior action by the Paris
Club of official creditors to provide 90 per
cent debt stock reduction. Desirable as such
action would be, it should not be a pre-condition for IMF 
participation in multilateral debt relief. At the same time,
the IMF has indicated that it will only
participate multilateral debt reduction
through its Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF), indicating that the creation
of a permanent ESAF would be a pre-condition
for participation in debt relief. However,
refinancing old ESAF loans with new ones on
similar terms will offer no benefits in terms
of debt reduction. 

Quite apart from placing narrow institutional
self-interest above the interests of the
world's poorest countries and people,  the
IMF's approach to debt relief violates one of
the central principles of the framework paper
agreed by the IMF-World Bank Boards: namely,
that multilateral institutions should
contribute to debt relief on a broadly
equitable basis, according to their exposure
in the country concerned. The dominant view in
the Fund appears to be that debt reduction
should be regarded as a priority for all
creditors other than itself. 

In contrast, the World Bank has proposed
establishing a Trust Fund which would in
effect pay off the debt of the poorest
countries. It has indicated that it will pay
money into this Trust Fund from its net
income, commencing with a contribution of
$500m in 1996. The Bank has also proposed a
number of extra measures to help indebted
countries during the second stage of the
proposed initiative. 

Bilateral debt

Meanwhile, further action by bilateral
creditors is clearly needed. Implementation of
the Naples terms has proved disappointing as a
result of the stringent eligibility criteria
imposed by the Paris Club. Uganda, the first
county to receive a rescheduling on Naples
Terms, saw its Paris Club debt reduced by only
25%. This is largely because debt accumulated
after a country's "cut-off date" (the date at
which it first applied to the Paris Club for a
rescheduling) is deemed ineligible for write-offs. 
In Uganda's case, debt previously rescheduled 
on less favourable terms was also
regarded as ineligible for further rescheduling. 

Against this backdrop, Oxfam International
believes that it is vital for the Group of
Seven to make progress on both bilateral and
multilateral debt. We recommend that G7
leaders:

1) Insist that the IMF contributes to the
proposed multilateral debt Trust Fund through
sale of a portion of its gold stocks. If the
IMF continues to refuse to countenance this,
we recommend that G7 countries withhold
further commitments and disbursements to ESAF,
transferring equivalent resources to other
facilities such as IDA and the proposed 
Multilateral Trust Fund.

2) Agree more generous terms for bilateral
debt relief as their contribution towards a
comprehensive solution to the debt crisis,
while making it clear that such a move should
not be a pre-condition to action by the IMF or
World Bank. Such an agreement should increase
both the headline figure for debt reduction
(currently 67%) plus the element of debt stock
deemed to be eligible for such a reduction.

3) Argue for a reduction in the proposed six
year time-frame for multilateral debt relief
which we believe is unnecessarily long.

4) Ensure that over-optimistic export growth
projections by the International Financial
Institutions are not used to exclude highly
indebted low income countries from 
eligibility for multilateral debt reduction.

5) Consider eligibility criteria which go
beyond strict compliance with IMF programmes
and include commitments by indebted countries
to invest the proceeds of debt relief in
poverty reduction and social development.  

Background information is available in Oxfam
International's briefing paper "Multilateral
Debt: The Human Costs", available on request.

For more information please contact Justin Forsyth
at Oxfam International (Washington) Tel 202 393 5332.

.
<hr>10/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-19</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-238</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108112717 text/html 958
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:26:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 801
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: BRAMBLE@nwf.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Re: URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO
Date: 26 Jun 1996 16:49:39

From: BARBARA BRAMBLE  BRAMBLE@nwf.org 
Subject:  URGENT: PLEASE READ OPEN LETTER TO G7: IF

Jim--
My intern Carolina was supposed to have replied to you at least a
week ago.
Is it too late?

If not, add:

Barbara J. Bramble
Director of International Office
National Wildlife Federation
USA

.
<hr>11/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-20</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-296</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108112803 text/html 3313
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:27:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3155
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: coc@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: Oxfam Int's Response G7 Communique
Date: 01 Jul 1996 06:03:41 -0800 (PST)

From:  coc@igc.apc.org 

From oxfamintdc@igc.org  Fri Jun 28 12:33:37 1996
Return-Path: oxfamintdc@pop.igc.apc.org
Received: from ppp4-49.igc.org (oxfamintdc@ppp4-49.igc.org [198.94.4.49]) by igc3.igc.apc.org (8.7.5/8.7.3) with SMTP id MAA11105 for  coc ; Fri, 28 Jun 1996 12:33:34 -0700 (PDT)
Message-Id:  199606281933.MAA11105@igc3.igc.apc.org 
X-Old-Sender:  oxfamintdc@pop.igc.apc.org 
X-UIDL: 835990439.000
From: "Oxfam International Advocay Office"  oxfamintdc@igc.apc.org 
Organization:  Oxfam International
To: coc@igc.org
Date:          Fri, 28 Jun 1996 14:50:32 +0000
Subject:       (Fwd) OI Reaction to G7 Communique
Reply-to: oxfamintdc@igc.apc.org
Priority: normal
X-mailer: Pegasus Mail/Windows (v1.22)
Sender: oxfamintdc@igc.org
Status: RO

Please post on your conference page
                                
                                
                                
Oxfam International press statement
                          
G7 miss "golden opportunity" on debt.
                          
June 28, 1996

Commenting on the failure of G7 leaders to agree new measures to 
reduce the debtburden on developing countries, Justin Forsyth of Oxfam International 
said:   "It is outrageous that G7 leaders can summon the political will overnight to 
agree a forty point plan on terrorism but even after two years cannot agree to sell 
a tiny portion of the massive $40 bn IMF gold reserves to help the poorest countries 
in the world." 

Carolyn Culey of Oxfam UK/I added: "The outcome of the Lyons Summit 
is a disappointment for the world's poor.  The Lyons Summit presented G7 
leaders with a golden opportunity to take action on Third World debt.  They could 
also have agreed more generous terms for reducing bilateral debt"

She added "It's scandalous that after months of negotiations, no 
agreement has been reached.  By failing to take a lead, the G7 is jeopardizing the 
chance of a final agreement on a solution to the debt crisis at the IMF/World Bank 
meeting in September. "

Oxfam is also concerned by the communique's agreement to use ESAF as 
the basis for the IMF's contribution to debt reduction.  IMF loans have helped 
to create this massive debt problem.  What we need is gold sales to pay off the 
debts, not to fund further lending to severely indebted countries.

                        ends
                          
For further information contact:   Justin Forsyth at Oxfam 
International in Washington DC: 202-393-5332 (office) 202-387-2670 (home)or Judy Raven 
at the Oxfam UK Press Office on  tel: 44-1865-312-498 or at home on 44 -1865 
749 214 or on the mobile: 44 0860 556393 or

.
<hr>12/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-21</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B038-329</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108112850 text/html 2661
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:28:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2503
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: coc@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: New book on local development
Date: 01 Jul 1996 06:43:02 -0800 (PST)

From:  coc@igc.apc.org 



JUST PUBLISHED! NEW BOOK ON RURAL MEXICO!

Decentralization and Rural Development in Mexico:
Community Participation in Mexico's Municipal Funds Program

by Jonathan Fox & Josefina Aranda

In theory, decentralization of development decision making is associated
with increased public-sector responsiveness and accountability. In practice,
the empirical evidence is quite limited, especially for rural local government.

Beginning in 1990, the Mexican government created Municipal Solidarity Funds
for small-scale, participatory rural public works, with $350 million in
World Bank funding for the four poorest states, including Oaxaca, with its
largely indigenous population. This volume documents the community
decision-making processes and the development impact of this program in a
representative sample of municipalities in Oaxaca, where outlying areas of
small rural municipalities received community-managed project funds for the
first time. The decision-making processes were often markedly participatory,
but the projects' social impact was quite limited.

The Oaxaca results suggest that decentralized development funding is only
likely to have an antipoverty impact where local governments are already
both internally decentralized and accountable to their citizens.

1996, 74 pp, + xx
ISBN 1-878367-33-1 (paper)

How to Order:
$11.95 + shipping ($3.50 for 1st book in U.S. via UPS [send street address]
plus $1.00 for each additional book; Mexico & Canada by airmail $5.00 for
1st book, plus $2.00 each additional). California residents add 7.75% sales tax.

By phone: 619-534-1160 (with credit card)

By fax: 619-534-6447 (with credit card, expiration date, signature)

By mail: send credit card information or a check/money order payable to U.C.
Regents to Order Dept., Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies/UCSD, 9500 Gilman
Drive / Dept. 0510, La Jolla, CA 92093-0510.

Write to the above address to request a catalog of the Center's publications.

####

.
<hr>13/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-22</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-15</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108112932 text/html 3605
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:28:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3447
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: coc@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: coc.brettonwds
Subject: (fwd) kidnapping...
Date: 02 Jul 1996 13:26:48

From: "Renee"  coc@igc.apc.org 



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
  FORWARDED BY JO MARIE GRIESGRABER, CENTER OF CONCERN
  
  From:  Glen Hill 7427377 - Phd Student  hill_g@arch.su.edu.au 
  Date:  Tue, 2 Jul 1996 19:00:52  +1000
  To:  bicusa@igc.apc.org.
  Subject:  Re:  Kidnapping of Kalpana/Chittagong Hill Tracts
  
  To:  Cindy Buhl, Bank Information Center (BIC)
  From:  Kabita Chakma
  138 Peninsular Road
  Grays Point 2232
  Sydney, N.S.W. Australia
  Ph:  (61-2) 524 9239 H
         (61 -2) 262 1988 W
  Fax: (61 -2) 351 3855 C\O G. Hill
  
  Dear Cindy,
  
  I am sending you the following message which I received from Bangladesh today.  It was sent
  from an NGO called "Ain O Salis Kendra" at Dhaka after I inquired about Kalpana Chakma (
  a human rights activist and a leader) when I received a desperate phone call from the President
  of the CHT Hill Women's Federation (only organization of the indigenous Jumma women,
  and of which I was a member) on 30 June seeking help.
  
  Would you please make any representations you can to anybody who you think could help in
  this matter (Bangladesh or other governments or NGOs).  Kalpana Chakma is still missing.
  
  The message I received is as follows:
  
  We received the following Urgent Appeal from the CHT Hill People's Council on 20 June
  1996 re:  Kalpana Chakma:
  
  "Miss. Kalpana Chakma, Organizing Secretary of the Hill Women's Federation, was abducted
  by a gang of plain-clothed armymen just seven hours before the general elections on 12th June. 
  Her where about is yet to be known.  The incident occurred when a group of plain clothed
  armymen numbering about 6/7 raided the house of Miss. Kalpana Chakma at New
  Lallyaghona village under Baghaichari Thana in Rangamati District (CHT) at about 1 a.m.
  today 12 June.
  
  They awoke the sleeping members of the family and asked for Kalpana Chakma.  The armed
  miscreants then forcibly took her away along with her two brothers, Kalicharan Chakma and
  Khudiram Chakma, at gunpoint after they were tied up and blindfolded.  At the midway, the
  gang leader stopped and ordered his men to shoot the two brothers.  Having heard this order
  the two brothers started to run away.  The armed men opened fire indiscriminately at them. 
  But they however managed to escape unhurt.  The Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Rangamati
  and other election monitoring bodies were informed about the incident.  The local people of
  Baghaichari viewed this incident as a pre-planned and motivated action to create terror and
  panic among inhabitants of Baghaichari so that the voters feel discouraged to come to the
  polling centres to cast their vote for the PGP (Pahari Gano Parishad, Hill People's Council)
  backed candidate.  It is a sheer intimidation and amounts to a election related violence."
  
  We are going to CHT on 2 July 1996 to investigate the situation.  
  ---Nipa for Hameeda Hossain
  
.
<hr>14/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=92&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-23</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-58</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108113011 text/html 1032
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:29:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 875
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: FGORMAN%UBMAIL.d@ube.ubalt.edu
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Trade Resources
Date: 28 May 1996 00:44:29

From: FGORMAN%UBMAIL.dnet@ube.ubalt.edu

Dear David:

     Can you tell me how to access electronically the recent (April)
report by the WTO Appellate Body in the gasoline case upholding the panel
decision that the U.S. regulations violated the GATT national treatment obligation.


     Thanks for any leads you can give me.

                            Frank Gorman

.
<hr>181/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=257&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-24</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-109</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108113058 text/html 3244
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:30:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3086
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: foodfirst@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export
Date: 03 Jun 1996 12:49:41 -0800 (PST)

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>182/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-25</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-159</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108113145 text/html 3230
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:31:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3072
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Message not deliverable
Date: 04 Jun 1996 08:02:30

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>183/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-26</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-207</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108113243 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:31:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 05 Jun 1996 02:59:44

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>184/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-27</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-249</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108113326 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:32:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 06 Jun 1996 02:54:36

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>185/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-28</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-293</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108113408 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:33:29 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 08 Jun 1996 03:11:24

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>186/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-29</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-345</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108113454 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:34:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 07 Jun 1996 00:39:13

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>187/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-30</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B039-401</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108113556 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:34:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 09 Jun 1996 03:23:00

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>188/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-31</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B040-65</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108113700 text/html 4054
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:36:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3896
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: iftrading@earthlink.net
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 09 Jun 1996 07:47:24

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFERENCE TRADE LIBRARY.

WOULD YOU PLEASE STOP SENDING THIS MESSAGE TO MY E-MAIL ADDRESS ...?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE ABOUT TWELVE TIMES.

I AM NOT INTERESTED IN THE SUBJECT.
 
Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.

** NOTE:- WE WOULD LIKE TO INFORM OUR FRIENDS AND CUSTOMERS,
          that WE HAVE MOVED BACK TO OUR OLD INTERNET SERVER.

Please take note of our NEW e-mail address for future
communication at  . . . . .  iftranding@earthlink.net
.
<hr>189/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-32</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B040-130</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108113752 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:37:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 09 Jun 1996 16:43:42

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>190/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-33</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B040-184</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108113845 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:37:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 02:55:34

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>191/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-34</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B040-271</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108113957 text/html 4062
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:38:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3904
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 02:57:34

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFERENCE TRADE LIBRARY.

WOULD YOU PLEASE STOP SENDING THIS MESSAGE TO MY E-MAIL ADDRESS ...?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE ABOUT TWELVE TIMES.

I AM NOT INTERESTED IN THE SUBJECT.
 
Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.

** NOTE:- WE WOULD LIKE TO INFORM OUR FRIENDS AND CUSTOMERS,
          that WE HAVE MOVED BACK TO OUR OLD INTERNET SERVER.

Please take note of our NEW e-mail address for future
communication at  . . . . .  iftranding@earthlink.net
.
<hr>192/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-35</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B041-17</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108114111 text/html 3867
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:40:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3709
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: iftrading@earthlink.net
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 05:56:00

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
COULD YOU PEOPLE DO SOMETHING TO PREVENT THIS MESSAGE DELIVERED TO ME?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE OVER 20 TIMES AND I DON'T HAVE TO DO
ANYTHING WITH YOU NOR YOUR ORGANIZATION.

WILL APPRECIATE YOUR COOPERATION ON THIS MATTER. 

Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.
.
<hr>193/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-36</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B041-101</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108114202 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:41:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 12:46:22

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>194/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-37</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B041-178</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108114256 text/html 4062
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:42:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3904
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 13:17:46

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFERENCE TRADE LIBRARY.

WOULD YOU PLEASE STOP SENDING THIS MESSAGE TO MY E-MAIL ADDRESS ...?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE ABOUT TWELVE TIMES.

I AM NOT INTERESTED IN THE SUBJECT.
 
Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.

** NOTE:- WE WOULD LIKE TO INFORM OUR FRIENDS AND CUSTOMERS,
          that WE HAVE MOVED BACK TO OUR OLD INTERNET SERVER.

Please take note of our NEW e-mail address for future
communication at  . . . . .  iftranding@earthlink.net
.
<hr>195/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-38</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B041-248</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108114347 text/html 4264
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:42:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4106
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: baywatch@ix.netcom.com
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 19:50:23

From: Marco Russo  baywatch@ix.netcom.com 

Please get me out of this mailing list. I have received this message 
about a hundred times and don't want to buy any of your books.
Thank you
iftrading@earthlink.net wrote:
> 
> From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 
> 
> Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> >
> > /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> > /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> > IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> > Food First --
> > The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> >
> > * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> > * Environmental and social impacts
> > * structural adjustment
> > * globalization
> >
> > (Order info below)
> >
> > title:
> >
> > A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> > Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> >
> > by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> > May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> > Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> >
> > Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> > industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> > have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> > in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> > struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> > Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> > one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> > ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> > nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> > massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> > governments.
> >
> > This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> > this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> > on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> > the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> > failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> > cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> > practitioners, policymakers and students of
> > international development, economic globalization and
> > U.S. foreign policy.
> >
> > hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> > title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> > Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> > below:
> >
> > e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> > print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> > South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> > --------------------------------------------------------
> >
> > Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> > U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> > each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> > additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> > additional book).
> >
> > Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> >
> > ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> > _____________________ exp ____
> >
> > name ________________________
> >
> > address _____________________
> >
> > _____________________________
> >
> > _____________________________
> >
> > _____________________________
> >
> > tel: ________________________
> 
> -----------------------------------------------------------------------> COULD YOU PEOPLE DO SOMETHING TO PREVENT THIS MESSAGE DELIVERED TO ME?
> 
> I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE OVER 20 TIMES AND I DON'T HAVE TO DO
> ANYTHING WITH YOU NOR YOUR ORGANIZATION.
> 
> WILL APPRECIATE YOUR COOPERATION ON THIS MATTER.
> 
> Kind regards,
> 
> Rene T. Pupo
> I.F. TRADING, Corp.
> 4100 W - 19th Ave.
> Hialeah, FL 33012.
> U.S.A.
> 
> 1-305-821-2205 Phone.
> 1-305-823-9735 Fax.
.
<hr>196/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-39</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B041-304</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108114440 text/html 3418
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:43:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3260
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: dan_m@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 18:01:59 -0800 (PST)

From: dan_m@ids.net (Dan M.)

YOU'VE SENT ME THIS SAME EMAIL OVER A DOZEN TIMES.  ENOUGH ALREADY....


>/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
>/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
>IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
>Food First -- 
>The Institute for Food and Development Policy 
>
>* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
>* Environmental and social impacts
>* structural adjustment
>* globalization
>
>(Order info below)
>
>title:
>
>A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
>Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
>
>by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
>May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
>Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
>
>
>Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
>industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
>have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
>in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
>struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
>Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
>one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
>ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
>nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
>massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
>governments. 
>
>This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
>this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
>on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
>the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
>failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
>cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
>practitioners, policymakers and students of 
>international development, economic globalization and 
>U.S. foreign policy. 
>
>hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
>title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
>Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
>below: 
>
>
>e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
>print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
>South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
>-------------------------------------------------------- 
>
>
>Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
>U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
>each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
>additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
>additional book). 
>
>Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 
>
>___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
>_____________________ exp ____ 
>
>
>name ________________________
>
>address _____________________
>
>_____________________________
>
>_____________________________
>
>_____________________________
>
>tel: ________________________
>

.
<hr>197/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-40</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-34</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108114521 text/html 3875
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:44:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3717
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 10 Jun 1996 15:42:41

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
COULD YOU PEOPLE DO SOMETHING TO PREVENT THIS MESSAGE DELIVERED TO ME?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE OVER 20 TIMES AND I DON'T HAVE TO DO
ANYTHING WITH YOU NOR YOUR ORGANIZATION.

WILL APPRECIATE YOUR COOPERATION ON THIS MATTER. 

Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.
.
<hr>198/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-41</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-79</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108114608 text/html 723
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:45:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 566
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 02:56:42

Please stop sending this message to me.

Thank you!
.
<hr>199/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-42</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-129</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108114647 text/html 724
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:46:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 567
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 02:57:32

Please stop sending this message to me.

Thank you!!
.
<hr>200/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-43</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-161</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108114728 text/html 842
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:46:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 685
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: ykk33883@macau.ctm.net
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 04:25:22

From: yeung ka ke  ykk33883@macau.ctm.net 

PBWarren@aol.com wrote:
> 
> Please stop sending this message to me.
> 
> Thank you

Please stop sending this message to me.
 Thank you
.
<hr>201/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-44</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-201</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108114816 text/html 1001
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:47:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 844
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: SUSAN_HUANG@HP-Japan-om2.om.hp.com
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 05:42:35

     Please stop sendin the messages to me as well.
     
     Susan


______________________________ Reply Separator _________________________________
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Author:  PBWarren (PBWarren@aol.com) at HP-Japan,shargw5
Date:    6/10/96 10:55 AM


Please stop sending this message to me.

Thank you!!
.
<hr>202/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-45</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-246</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108114855 text/html 740
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:48:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 583
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 06:20:31

From: Richard Carew  rcarew@EM.AGR.CA 

Stop sending me this message
.
<hr>203/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-46</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B042-300</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108114933 text/html 744
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:48:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 587
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 06:21:04

From: Richard Carew  rcarew@EM.AGR.CA 

Why I keep getting this message.
.
<hr>204/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-47</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B043-1</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108115016 text/html 3234
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:49:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3076
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 06:42:26

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>205/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-48</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B043-54</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.17&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108115101 text/html 3875
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:50:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3717
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-ft
From: Administrator@legis.state.ak.us
Newsgroups: trade.library
Subject: Re: Message not deliverable
Date: 11 Jun 1996 06:58:33

From: "Rene T. Pupo"  iftrading@earthlink.net 

Administrator@legis.state.ak.us wrote:
> 
> /* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
> /* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
> IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from
> Food First --
> The Institute for Food and Development Policy
> 
> * Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture
> * Environmental and social impacts
> * structural adjustment
> * globalization
> 
> (Order info below)
> 
> title:
> 
> A CAUTIONARY TALE:
> Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America
> 
> by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset
> May, 1996, Food First Development Studies,
> Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7
> 
> Neither structural adjustment policies, nor
> industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports
> have led to sustained economic growth and social equity
> in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's
> struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World
> Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy,
> one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops
> ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia
> nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through
> massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local
> governments.
> 
> This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of
> this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment,
> on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on
> the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of
> failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a
> cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars,
> practitioners, policymakers and students of
> international development, economic globalization and
> U.S. foreign policy.
> 
> hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this
> title, sorry). To order call our distributor,
> Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon
> below:
> 
> e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or
> print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265
> South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
> --------------------------------------------------------
> 
> Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed
> U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00
> each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each
> additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each
> additional book).
> 
> Total enclosed _______ (including shipping)
> 
> ___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no.
> _____________________ exp ____
> 
> name ________________________
> 
> address _____________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> _____________________________
> 
> tel: ________________________

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
COULD YOU PEOPLE DO SOMETHING TO PREVENT THIS MESSAGE DELIVERED TO ME?

I HAVE RECEIVED THIS SAME MESSAGE OVER 20 TIMES AND I DON'T HAVE TO DO
ANYTHING WITH YOU NOR YOUR ORGANIZATION.

WILL APPRECIATE YOUR COOPERATION ON THIS MATTER. 

Kind regards,

Rene T. Pupo
I.F. TRADING, Corp.
4100 W - 19th Ave.
Hialeah, FL 33012.
U.S.A.

1-305-821-2205 Phone.
1-305-823-9735 Fax.
.
<hr>206/345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-49</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B043-109</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108115143 text/html 4735
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:51:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4577
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 345 records<br>

41  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=41"> 12 19960610 Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
42  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=42"> 11 19960610 Re: Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
43  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=43"> 25 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
44  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=44"> 24 19960611 Re: Trade Resources</a>
45  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=45"> 93 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
46  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=46"> 19 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
47  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=47"> 113 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
48  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=48"> 47 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
49  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=49"> 171 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
50  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=50"> 16 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
51  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=51"> 40 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
52  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=52"> 22 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
53  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=53"> 19 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
54  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=54"> 46 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
55  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=55"> 22 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
56  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=56"> 10 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
57  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=57"> 10 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
58  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=58"> 10 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
59  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=59"> 23 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
60  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=60"> 21 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=61"> 17 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
62  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=62"> 87 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
63  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=63"> 10 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
64  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=64"> 106 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
65  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=65"> 113 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
66  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=66"> 10 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
67  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=67"> 21 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
68  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=68"> 35 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
69  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=69"> 38 19960611 Re: Message not deliverable -Reply</a>
70  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=70"> 25 19960611 Message not deliverable - Chill out</a>
71  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=71"> 148 19960612 Message not deliverable( THIS IS TH</a>
72  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=72"> 110 19960612 don't sent me Message</a>
73  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=73"> 18 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
74  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=74"> 122 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
75  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=75"> 55 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
76  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=76"> 55 19960612 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
77  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=77"> 29 19960613 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
78  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=78"> 31 19960613 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
79  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=79"> 241 19960613 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
80  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.17&q=so&in=80"> 31 19960613 Re: Message not deliverable</a>
<hr>41-80/345    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=321-360">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-50</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000251-B043-169</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=321-360 194.10.201.200 19970108115223 text/html 3132
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 12:51:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2974
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 345 records<br>

321  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=321"> 305 19961127 Trade News 11-27-96</a>
322  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=322"> 89 19961203 IDB actiohs planned</a>
323  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=323"> 71 19961207 trd-str coverage of the WTO Ministe</a>
324  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=324"> 63 19961206 SAPRIN Update</a>
325  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=325"> 67 19961206 Jubilee 2000 Charter</a>
326  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=326"> 452 19961206 (Fwd) From Jonathan Fox</a>
327  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=327"> 24 19961206 Correction re (Fwd) Jonathan Fox</a>
328  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=328"> 15 19961210 WB Role of State:WDR 97</a>
329  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=329"> 307 19961212 NAFTA & Inter-Am Trade Monitor</a>
330  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=330"> 16 19961213 WTO MINISTERIAL CONFERE</a>
331  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=331"> 351 19961214 trd-str SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS 10</a>
332  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=332"> 315 19961214 trd-str SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS 11</a>
333  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=333"> 196 19961218 Trade News 12-18-96</a>
334  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=334"> 398 19961214 trd-str WTO MINISTERIAL CONFERENCE</a>
335  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=335"> 326 19961217 trd-str SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS 13</a>
336  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=336"> 16 19961217 WB mtgs on participatory evaluation</a>
337  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=337"> 16 19961218 Asia Devel Bank-NGO policy</a>
338  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=338"> 30 19961218 NGO-ED lobby notes;Wb annugal mtgs</a>
339  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=339"> 84 19961218 SPA 4 -  Briefing paper summary</a>
340  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=340"> 23 19961227 ADB Indigenous Policy Ppr</a>
341  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=341"> 189 19970104 trd-str GATT WTO Campaign (fwd)</a>
342  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=342"> 60 19970104 trd-str Balanced Trade</a>
343  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=343"> 53 19970103 SPA - 4</a>
344  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=344"> 20 19970105 NGO-ED lobby notes</a>
345  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=321-360&menu=1.17&q=so&in=345"> 29 19970105 Correspondence from IMF of 12/27/96</a>
<hr>321-345/345    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&q=so&rg=281-320">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.17&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-51</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B004-138</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/emul4.html 194.10.201.200 19970122043126 text/html 5377
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:31:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5172
Last-Modified: Sunday, 23-Jun-96 23:14:37 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>Emulator IV</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/e-mu.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/emul4.jpg">
<P><FONT SIZE="+3"><CENTER> Professional Digital Sampling System</CENTER></FONT>
<HR>
<FONT SIZE="+2"><CENTER><B>Featuring:</B> 128 Voice Polyphony</CENTER>
<P><CENTER>128MB Sample Memory - 128 6-Pole Resonant Filters</CENTER></FONT></HEAD>
<P>
<P><BODY>
The Emulator IV professional digital sampling system is the latest iteration of the renowned Emulator platform samplers and represents a marriage of 15 years of digital sampling experience and latest-generation, proprietary VLSI technology.  Redefining digital sampling device standards, Emulator IV features 128 voice polyphony and up to 128 megabytes (MB) of sample memory.  Emulator IV carries on its namesake's tradition of delivering superb audio resolution as well as powerful, innovative features.  A new icon-based graphic user interface provides a level of ease-of-use and speed previously available only on computer platforms and, hence, maximizes productivity for professionals in a variety of audio production environments.
<P>
As a musical instrument, Emulator IV is a powerful stand-alone digital sampler for both studio and live use.  EIV's enormous polyphony virtually eliminates voice "rip-off" limitations while the unit's memory capacity allows for an immense number of instantly accessible on-board samples, banks and presets.
<P>
Ideal for audio engineers, sound designers and audio post production professionals, EIV's 24 minutes of sampling time allow for the creation of "reel-long" sound effects sequences or individual, complex ambiance, dialog and soud effect samples.  Powerful, easy-to-use audio processing features, including virtually distortionless pitch transposition over a 10 octave range, optimize EIV for sound design environments.  By adding mass storage peripherals, computer-based sample editing,  Remote Controller/Librarian software, and a direct-to-disk recording system, the EIV becomes the central sound engine of a sophisticated modular digital audio system.<hr>
<FONT SIZE="+4"><CENTER> Now with Morphing Filters!</CENTER></FONT>
<P><FONT SIZE="+2"><CENTER> The E-IV and e-64 contain 17 types of powerful filters establishing E-mu as the leader in sampling/synthesis technology.</CENTER></FONT>

</HEAD>
<P>
<P><BODY>
<P>
<B>2-Pole Lowpass</B>
<LU><LI>Lowpass filter with 12dB/octave rolloff and Q control.</LU>
<P>
<B>4-Pole Lowpass</B>
<LU><LI>Lowpass filter with 24dB/octave rolloff and Q control.</LU>
<P>
<B>6-Pole Lowpass</B>
<LU><LI>Lowpass filter with 36dB/octave rolloff and Q control.</LU>
<P>
<B>2nd Order Highpass</B>
<LU><LI>Highpass filter with 12dB/octave rolloff and Q control</LU>
<P>
<B>4th Order Highpass</B>
<LU><LI>Highpass filter with 24dB/octave rolloff and Q control</LU>
<P>
<B>2nd Order Bandpass</B>
<LU><LI>Bandpass filter with 6dB/octave rolloff on either side of the passband and Q control.</LU>
<P>
<B>4th Order Bandpass</B>
<LU><LI>Bandpass filter with 12dB/octave rolloff on either side of the passband and Q control.</LU>
<P>
<B>Contrary Bandpass</B>
<LU><LI>A novel bandpass filter where the poles and zeros cross midway in the frequency range.</LU>
<P>
<B>Swept. EQ, 1-octave</B>
<LU><LI>Parameteric filter with 24dB of boost or cut and a one octave bandwith.</LU>
<P>
<B>Swept. EQ, 2->1-octave</B>
<LU><LI>Parametric filter with 24dB of boost or cut.  The bandwidth of the filter is two octaves wide at the low end of the audio spectrum,  gradually changing to one octave wide at the upper end of the spectrum.</LU>
<P>
<B>Swept. EQ, 3->1-octave</B>
<LU><LI>Parametric filter with 24dB of boost or cut.  The bandwidth of the filter is three octaves wide at the low end of the audio spectrum, gradually changing to one octave wide at th upper end of the spectrum.</LU>
<P>
<B>Phaser 1</B>
<LU><LI>Recreates a comb filter effect typical of phase shifters.  Frequency moves position of notches.  Resonance varies the depth of the notches.</LU>
<P>
<B>Phaser 2</B>
<LU><LI>Comb filter with a slightly different notch spacing than Phaser 1.  Frequency moves position of notches.  Resonace varies the depth of the notches.</LU>
<P>
<B>Bat Phaser</B>
<LU><LI>Phase shift filter with peaks as well as notches.</LU>
<P>
<B>Flager Lite</B>
<LU><LI>Contains three notches.  Frequency moves frequency and spacing of notches.  REsonance increases flanging depth.</LU>
<P>
<B>Vocal Ah-Ay-Ee</B>
<LU><LI>Vowel formant filter which sweeps from "Ah" sound, through "Ay" sound to "Ee" sound at maximum morph.  Body size varies the apparent size of mouth cavity.</LU>
<P>
<B>Vocal Oo-Ah</B>
<LU><LI>Vowel formant filter which sweeps from "Oo" sound, through "Oh" sound to "Ah" sound at maximum morph.  Body size varies the apparent size of mouth cavity.</LU>
<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>






















</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-52</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B007-378</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/a90ex.html 194.10.201.200 19970122044609 text/html 5667
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:46:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5462
Last-Modified: Sunday, 23-Jun-96 23:14:13 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>            </TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/roland.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/a90ex.jpg">
<h2>The A-90EX Expandable Controller</h2>
<h1>A Stage Piano For the Next Century</h1><hr>
<h4>The A-90EX is a landmark in the evolution of stage
piano's, offering incredibly realistic piano sounds, a 
full 88-key hammer-action keyboard and a range of
powerful controller capabilities.
A triumph of art and technology, the A-90EX
combines the latest digital, mechanical and musical
technologies to emulate the timeless sound and
performance of a concert grand piano. Imagine the
majestic sound of a concert grand, the expressive
action of a fine acoustic keyboard, the
comprehensive MIDI functions of a master
controller  -- all in a portable stage unit. Then
experience the reality of the A-90EX</h4><hr>

<h3>Superb internal sound source</h3>
The A-90EX's ound source is a technological marvel - the end result of an exhaustive and detailed sampling process. First, the finest concert grands from around the world were evaluated and the best of these were selected for sampling. Each note was then sampled individually under carefully controlled conditions. Mic position, stage and hall acoustics, and dynamic tonal variations were considered. After extensive trial and error, the very best samples were selected and incorporated into the sound source. The results are unmistakable - the pure sound of one of history's finest instruments: the Grand Piano.<p>

The A-90EX's sound source features a huge wave memory capacity equivalent to 24 Mbytes with 16-bit linear conversion. This gives you access to a wide variety of sounds, including two types of stereo-sampled grand pianos, various styles of acoustic pianos, a variety of electric pianos including classic Rhodes sounds and a generous selection of synthesizer textures. The versatility of these sounds is enhanced with an impressive 64-voice polyphony. This exceptional polyphonic capability is indispensable for realistic piano sounds, giving you all the capacity you need for lush, sustained passages.<p>

For additional texture, the A-90EX also provides a generous selection of built-in effects, including several types of built-in effects, including several types of reverb and chorus, as well as high-quality EQ.<hr>

<h3>Expressive 88-key keyboard</h3>
The A-90EX employs Roland's proprietary 88-note hammer-action keyboard, which offers the natural resistance and rebound of an acoustic piano. This remarkable feat of engineering was attained through extensive research into the mechanical characteristics of the world's finest concert grand pianos. To play the A-90EX is to experience an unmatched sensitivity and response to the subtleties of your playing style.<p>

The A-90EX's velocity-sensitive keyboard brings out every nuance of your dynamics, from pianissimo to forte. Selectable velocity curves let you choose the velocity sensitivity that best suits a particular musical style or sound source. The A-90EX's keyboard also offers channel aftertouch-sensitivity - a powerful function for controlling external sound sources.<hr>

<h3>Sophisticated features enhance operational ease</h3>
The A-90EX offers a range of functions for simple, yet complete control of even the most complex MIDI setup. The ergonomically designed front panel is equipped with large buttons that are easy to locate, even on dimly lit stages. These buttons give you instant control over any element in your setup, from additional sound sources to effects to external sequencers. <p>

While in edit mode, the A-90EX offers one-touch operation. For instance, touch the bender and the edit page automatically switches to the bender parameter; touch the footpedal and you're instantly in the footpedal editing screen.<hr>

<h3>Powerful master keyboard functions</h3>
As a master keyboard, the A-90EX is unrivaled. The 88-note keyboard can be split into a maximum of eight zones and four separate MIDI outputs are also provided. The A-90EX features 20 different controls and connectors providing instant access to internal and external devices. You can assign different parameters to the controls, giving you a range of expressive options for performing and managing your setup.<hr>

<h3>Extensive storage of Performance configurations</h3>
The A-90EX can store up to 94 performances, which may consist of up to four of the A-90EX's preset patches along with various user-configurable parameters such as zone, effects on/off and MIDI cahnnel. This gives you instant access to a variety of setups, perfect for any gig or session. Using optional M-512E Memory Cards, you can store an additional 64 performances per card.<hr>

<h3>Optional sound sources</h3>
The A-90EX's sound source is available independently as the VE-RD1 Piano Voice Expansion Board. You can also purchase the A-90 without the VE-RD1 and add it later, or install other sound sources like the VE-GS1, which features a wide selection of GM and GS sounds, or the VE-JV1 Voice Expansion Board, which offers synth textures from Roland's JV-series synthesizers.

<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>





















</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-53</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B005-117</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/orbit.html 194.10.201.200 19970122043443 text/html 5886
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:35:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5679
Last-Modified: Thursday, 13-Jun-96 00:56:47 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>E-MU Orbit</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/e-mu.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/orbit.jpg">
<p>
<h1>ORBIT</h1>
<hr>

<h2>ORBIT the Dance Planet has landed and is
 ready to Groove Your World.</h2>  With over 600 of
 the earth's most cutting edge samples and the introduc
 tion of new rhythmic features, Orbit blasts its way to
 the forefront as the dance music machine.  Orbit
 features 32 voices of polyphony, 512 presets
 (256 ROM, 256 RAM), is 16 part Multitimbral and has
 6 analog outputs.  Edit and tweak Orbit's sounds the
 way you like them by using its powerful filters, MIDI
 synced LFOS, and MIDIPATCH Modulation System.
 If that's not enough, Orbit's equipped with plenty of
 user editable "beats".  These drum loops aren't going to
 sound like everybody else, Orbit gives you the
 flexibility to alter them to fit your style.

<p>

 <h2>SOUNDS</h2>
 Orbit's sounds were created by sound designers from
 all around the world.  These talented individuals spent
 thousands of hours sampling, researching and creating
 Orbit's tremendous sound set . Deep Pulsating Basses,
 Ambient Melodic Pads, Cutting Edge Percussion and
 Drums, In Your Face Synths and Massive Effects and
 Hits - they're all here and carefully prepared to be the
 ideal sound set for Dance music.

<h2> BEATS MODE</h2>
 There are over 50 drum loops (beats) in Orbit.  Every-
 body has drum loops, right?  They don't have "BEATS
 MODE".  This ingenious mode allows the user to
manipulate beats to fit their own unique style by
 changing the beat's tempo, preset to any of the 512
 resident sounds and transposition.  Along with
 complete synth control, Beats can have their own
 uniqueness that other instruments cannot offer.  This
 exciting new feature allows users to really interact
 with Orbit's powerful synth and, of course, you can
 also use the settings that our top notch programmers
 created.

<h2> FILTERS</h2>
 Filters are an integral part of Dance music, and
 E-mu's@ world famous filters, are a perfect fit for
 Orbit.  There are 32 6-pole resonant filters in Orbit
 with 1 6 different types consisting of low-pass,
 high-pass, band-pass, phaser, flanger, EQ, Morphing
 and more.  By using Orbit's MIDIPATCH Modulation
 System, filters can be routed to real time controllers
 for complete expressiveness.  Also, by using the two
 Synced LFOs as modulation sources to the filter, Orbit
 can create cool and interesting rhythmic filter lines.
<p>


<b> Orbit's feature set and sound set are perfect for the
 dance musician, but the synthesizer enthusiast will
 also find Orbit's features and sounds out of this world.
 It's here, it's loud, it's monstrous and it grooves -
 Feel the Energy.</b>

<hr>
<h2>MENUS</h2>
<ul>
<li><h3>Master Menu</h3>
 Master Tune, Transpose, Global Bend, Global Velocity
 Curve, Mix Output, MIDI Mode, MIDI Mode Change,
 MIDI Overflow, MIDI Enable, Preset Change, Control-
 ler #A/B, Controller #C/D, Footswitch #, MIDI
 Program - Preset, Send MIDI Data, User Key Tuning,
 Viewing Angle, Demo Sequence, BEATS MODE,
 Global Tempo, Bank select
<p>

<li><h3> Edit Menu</h3>
 Preset Name, Primary Instrument, Secondary
 Instrument, Key Range, Primary Key Range, Secondary
 Key Range, Volume, Pan, Coarse Tuning, FineTuning,
 Alternate Volume Envelope, Primary Envelope
 Parameters (AHDSR), Secondary Envelope Parameters
 (AHDSR), Delay, Sound Start, Reverse Sound, Solo
 Mode, Portamento Rate, Chorus, XFade Mode, XFade
 Direction, XFade Balance, XFade Amount, Switch
 Point, Primary Filter Type, Primary Filter Fc & Q,
 Secondary Filter Type, Secondary Filter Fc & Q,
 Alternate Envelope, Amount Delay, Alternate Envelope
 (AHDSR), LFOI Shape-Amount, LFOI Rate-Delay-
 Variation, LF02 Shape-Amount, LF02 Rate-Delay-
 Variation, KeyNelocity Control, Realtime Control,
 Footswitch Control, Pitch Bend Range, Pressure
 Amount, Controller Amount A/B, Controller Amount
 C/D, Velocity Curve, Keyboard Center, Keyboard
 Tuning, Mix Output, Link 1, Link 2, Link 3, Save
 Presets
</ul>
<hr>
<h2>MIDIPatch MODULATION SYSTEM</h2>
<ul>
<li><h3>Key number and Velocity Modulation Control</h3>
Up to 6 simultaneous patches per preset may be
programmed.<br>
Sources: 2 (Key Number and Key Velocity)<br>
Destinations: 42

<p>
<li><h3>Realtime Modulation Control</h3>
Up to 8 simultaneous patches per preset
may be programmed.<br>
Sources: 10<br>
Destinations: 33<br>

<p>
<li><h3>Footswitch Control</h3>
Up to 3 simultaneous switches per preset may be
programmed.<br>
Sources: 3 (Footswitch 1, Footswitch 2, Footswitch 3)<br>
Destinations: 10
</ul>
<hr>

<h2>TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS</h2>
Audio Channels: 32<br>
Presets: 512<br>
Data Encoding:16-bit linear, 18-bit DAC's<br>
Sound Memory: 8MB<br>
Signal to Noise: >9OdB<br>
Dynamic Range: >9OdB<br>
Frequency Response: 2OHz-8kHz (+/- 6dB)<br>
Distortion: <.05% THD<br>
Power Consumption: 15 Watts<br>
Voltage Input: 90VAC-260VAC at 5OHz-6OHz<br>
Maximum Output Level: +4dB into 600 Ohms<br>
Output Impedance: 1 00 Ohms<br>

<ul>
<li><h3>Inputs</h3>
Effects Return 1 In (stereo), Effects Return 2 In (stereo),<br>
MIDI In
<p>

<li><h3>Outputs</h3>
Six, polyphonic (configurable as three pairs of stereo
outputs w/programmable panning), Mono mix, MIDI
out, MIDI thru
<p>

<li><h3>Rack Dimensions</h3>
Height: 1.75", Width: 1 9", Depth: 8.5"
</ul>
<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>



</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-54</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B029-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107155450 text/html 1462
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 16:54:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1306
</DOCHDR>
<body bgcolor="#ffffee" font size="+1" link="#008000" alink= "#000099" vlink="#139000" TEXT="#304000">
 Zoeken/Chercher/Search Refugees - Vluchtelingen
<TITLE> Refugees - Vluchtelingen </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftw">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.14>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20 checked> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. 
	Only a space is OR. Use AND and NOT to in/exclude more words.
	Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)

	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftw">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.14>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-55</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000218-B046-327</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107173600 text/html 6895
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 18:33:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6739
</DOCHDR>
<pre>so -- 613 hits<br>

<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c1"> 1</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=1">    70 960708 Refugee Conference - Call For Paper</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c2"> 2</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=2">   115 960613 VOLUNTEER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS!!</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c3"> 3</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=3">   108 960614 OMCT:IND230196/PRISON DEATH/INDIA</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c4"> 4</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=4">   307 960620 Mon Information Service 19.6.-96</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c5"> 5</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=5">   132 960625 OMCT:ind23016-fu/Bhutan-India</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c6"> 6</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=6">    28 960702 Vigil for Refugee Victims of Torture</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c7"> 7</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=7">   116 960710 omct:IND230196.10 India/release</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c8"> 8</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=8">   531 960709 REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAMS -Forwa</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c9"> 9</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=9">   210 960711 EELM: CZECH REPUBLIC -- JUNE 1996,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c10"> 10</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=10">    68 960711 [MSG/30683] Antigua And Barbuda Hur</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c11"> 11</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=11">   121 960711 EELM: BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c12"> 12</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=12">   248 960711 EELM: GEORGIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c13"> 13</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=13">   377 960711 Bulletin #3, 10-16 June, Bosnian Me</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c14"> 14</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=14">    67 960711 [MSG/30633] Antigua And Barbuda Tro</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c15"> 15</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=15">   149 960711 RLC Response: Sierra Leone</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c16"> 16</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=16">   125 960711 RLC Circular -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c17"> 17</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=17">    77 960711 [MSG/30795] Antigua And Barbuda Hur</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c18"> 18</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=18">   186 960711 [MSG/29701] Yemen Heavy Rain  - 1 o</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c19"> 19</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=19">    77 960711 HRW: Macedonia--Human Rights Violat</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c20"> 20</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=20">    97 960711 Advance notice - Special Issue of J</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c21"> 21</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=21">    69 960711 Publication of RSP Occasional Paper</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c22"> 22</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=22">   129 960711 Press Release: UNHCR AND MALAYSIA C</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c23"> 23</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=23">   132 960711 PRESS Release: LE HCR ET LA MALAISI</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c24"> 24</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=24">    53 960711 (Fwd) Call for NGO (migrant program</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c25"> 25</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=25">    99 960711 RLC Response to Information Request</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c26"> 26</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=26">    56 960711 Announcement</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c27"> 27</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=27">   172 960711 Deputy High Commissioner"Speech to</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c28"> 28</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=28">   336 960711 HRW: Former Yugoslavia--Letter Urgi</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c29"> 29</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=29">    78 960711 HRW: Czech Republic--Discrimination</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c30"> 30</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=30">    61 960711 RLC Response to Information Request</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c31"> 31</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=31">    88 960711 [MSG/30210] China Flood 4/7/1996 -F</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c32"> 32</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=32">   142 960711 Bosnia--HRW Condemns the Failure to</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c33"> 33</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=33">   209 960711 [MSG/30312] Yemen Heavy Rain -Forwa</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c34"> 34</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=34">   351 960711 Bulletin #2, 3-9 June, Bosnian Medi</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c35"> 35</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=35">   171 960711 EELM: ALBANIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c36"> 36</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=36">   273 960711 EELM: BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c37"> 37</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=37">   637 960712 Bulletin #4/1, 17-23 June, Bosnian</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c38"> 38</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=38">    43 960712 ICRC APPEALS TO THE WARRING PARTIES</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c39"> 39</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=39">   173 960712 Burma--HRW Demands End to Forced Re</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c40"> 40</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=40">   268 960712 HRW: US--Georgia Cited for Human Ri</a>
<hr>1-40/613    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-56</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B025-67</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c1 194.10.201.200 19970108033652 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:36:16 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=1">  Article </a><hr>1/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-57</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B025-131</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108033742 text/html 3366
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:36:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3208
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Refugee Conference - Call For Paper
Date: 08 Jul 1996 04:46:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

**** With Apologies For Cross-Posting ****

CALL FOR PAPERS

REFUGEE RIGHTS AND REALITIES
approaches to law and policy reform

The Nottingham Human Rights Law Centre invites papers to be presented ata  
one-day conference at the University of Nottingham on Saturday 30November  
1996. Entitled "REFUGEE RIGHTS AND REALITIES -approaches to law and policy  
reform", the project will examine changingdefinitions, perceptions and  
strategies concerning refugees in the worldtoday.

The project will examine the evolving definition of the term refugee;the  
contemporary development of international refugee regimes fromprevention  
and early warning measures to containment and strategicsecurity issues;  
health, education and employment issues in terms bothof refugees' needs  
and potential; distinctions between migrant andrefugee at national,  
European and international levels; popularperceptions of refugees and the  
exploitation of these perceptions bythe far right; and the different roles  
which States and other playersincreasingly play. The conference is  
organised by the Human RightsCentre at the University of Nottingham as  
part of a research projectfunded by the Airey Neave Trust. It will bring  
together people froma broad background: legal practitioners, academics and  
officials ininternational organisations and NGOs, with a view to exploring  
thepossibilities for law and policy reform and their practical  
application.

The conference will open with a plenary session with papers byNicholas  
Blake QC, Glyn Ford MEP, Professor Guy S. Goodwin-Gill,Patricia Hyndman  
and Richard Plender QC followed by workshops, inwhich panellists will give  
a brief oral presentation followed by discussion.The nature of the papers  
submitted will ultimately determine the exact focusand structure of the  
workshops. Proposed workshops include the following:	(1) Who is a refugee?
	(2) Pre-emption and containment
	(3) Health care needs of refugees
	(4) Education and refugees
	(5) The UK and the Asylum and Immigration Bill
	(6) European harmonisation of refugee law and policy
	(7) Co-ordinating international, governmental and NGO roles
	(8) Refugees, racism and xenophobia
	(9) Integration or return?

Abstracts of proposed papers (250 words) and/or requests forregistration  
forms should be sent together with contact detailsby 31 July 1996 to:

Frances Nicholson		                          or by e-mail to;
Airey Neave Research Fellow	           
Patrick.Twomey@nottingham.ac.ukDepartment of Law
University of Nottingham
Nottingham NG7 2RD
UK
Tel +44 (0)115 951 5694.
Fax +44 (0)115 951 5696.			


PLEASE DO NOT REPLY TO THIS MAILING LIST



## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>1/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-58</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B025-191</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c2 194.10.201.200 19970108033821 text/html 474
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:37:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 317
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: pbiusa@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=2">  Article </a><hr>2/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-59</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B025-247</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108033910 text/html 5320
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:38:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5162
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: pbiusa@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: VOLUNTEER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS!!
Date: 13 Jun 1996 20:03:32 -0800 (PST)

PLEASE POST.  THANK YOU.

      INTERNATIONAL VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES 

        WORK FOR PEACE AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN 

GUATEMALA
          SRI LANKA
                    COLOMBIA
                             HAITI
                                    THE BALKANS
  
     and with INDIGENOUS PEOPLE IN NORTH AMERICA


PEACE BRIGADES INTERNATIONAL
2642 College Ave. Berkeley, CA 94704
tel: 1-510-540-0749
e-mail: pbiusa@igc.apc.org
check our WEB PAGE at:  <a href=http://www.igc.apc.org/pbi/index.html>http://www.igc.apc.org/pbi/index.html</a>

Peace Brigades International is seeking volunteers for protective 
human rights accompaniment and popular education work with people's 
movements in Guatemala, Sri Lanka, Haiti, Colombia, the Balkans 
and with indigenous people in North America.  

1996 VOLUNTEER TRAINING SESSION
Date: September 15-22,  1996 
Location: Camp Adahi,  Reading, Pennsylvania
Cost: $250(US) -- includes all housing and food. (volunteers for
 Colombia are subsidized).
Registration and $75 nonrefundable deposit by September 1.

PLEASE SUBMIT APPLICATION BY AUGUST 15.
For application Call: 510-540-0749, or contact pbiusa@igc.apc.org.

WHAT IS PEACE BRIGADES INTERNATIONAL?

Peace Brigades International (PBI) is a non-partisan international 
organization committed to practicing nonviolence in conflict areas. 
PBI volunteers, by providing support and accompaniment, create 
"breathing space"  for groups working nonviolently for social justice.
PBI volunteers respond to requests for protective accompaniment from
individuals and groups threatened with political violence, facilitate 
workshops upon request, and disseminate first-hand reports 
internationally.

WHO CAN BE A PBI VOLUNTEER? 

PBI volunteers come from many countries, backgrounds and philosophical 
perspectives.  They share a strong commitment to nonviolence and a belief 
in the power of local people to create more peaceful and just societies.  
PBI seeks volunteers age 25 and older.  Volunteers must be able to commit 
to a minimum of  7 months of service (excepting North America Project).  
Spanish fluency required for Guatemala and Colombia.  French for Haiti.  
Volunteers must complete a detailed application, with references, followed 
by a telephone interview before being accepted for the training session.  

WHAT DO OUR PEACE TEAMS DO IN THE FIELD?

GUATEMALA:
PBI has accompanied Nobel Prize winner Rigoberta Menchz,  families of the
disappeared (GAM and FAMDEGUA),  rural campesino groups (CERJ, CUC, CONIC, 
CCDA and others)  labor unions (dozens!), returning refugees, Communities 
of Population in Resistance, widows groups (CONAVIGUA), internally 
displaced (CONDEG and others),  and many others.  PBI also offers 
workshops on demand in Peace Education. (volunteers must be fluent in 
Spanish.)

SRI LANKA
PBI provides protective accompaniment for individuals and an international 
presence at meetings of local NGOs concerned with human rights and peace. 
The Team in Sri Lanka has also been involved with election monitoring and 
maintains regular contact with the diplomatic community. This work is carried out 
in the capital city of Colombo, the North East and the Hill Country.

COLOMBIA
PBI accompanies national human rights organizations, such as ASFADDES 
(Families of the Disappeared), regional groups like CREDHOS (Regional 
Human Rights Organization),  internally displaced victims of the violence 
in the Magdelena region and others. (volunteers must be fluent in 
Spanish.)

HAITI
PBI placed its newest team in Port-au-Prince in December 1995, at the 
request of the Haitian Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace.  PBI has 
been asked to facilitate workshops in conflict resolution and other areas 
of Peace Education.  The team also prepares non-partisan reports for the 
international community.  (volunteers must speak French, and be prepared 
for intensive study of Haitian Creole upon arrival in Haiti.)

NORTH AMERICA PROJECT
Observer teams, listening and reconciliation work, and nonviolence 
training in conflicts involving native communities in the US and 
Canada.  The project has developed relationships with the Innu people 
in northern Quebec and Labrador, Anishnabe in Southern Ontario, and 
the Western Shoshone in Nevada.

THE BALKANS PEACE TEAM INTERNATIONAL
This coalition maintains peace teams in both Croatia and Kosovo doing 
accompaniment, conflict resolution, reconciliation and human rights 
support.

FOR MORE INFORMATION CHECK OUR WEB PAGE AT:
<a href=http://www.igc.apc.org/pbi/index.html>http://www.igc.apc.org/pbi/index.html</a>

OR CALL US TODAY AT: 1-510-540-0749.

.
<hr>2/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=1&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-60</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B026-28</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c3 194.10.201.200 19970108033951 text/html 472
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:39:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 315
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=3">  Article </a><hr>3/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-61</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B026-84</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108034032 text/html 4904
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:39:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4746
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: OMCT:IND230196/PRISON DEATH/INDIA
Date: 14 Jun 1996 05:20:22

--=====================_834773180==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"



--=====================_834773180==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="IND23016.ASC"


                             Case IND 230196.7
                           Seventh Follow up of
                          Follow up of IND 230196
                                     
The   International   Secretariat   of  OMCT/SOS-Torture   requests   your
intervention in the following situation in India

Brief description of the situation:
CVICT,  a member of the network, reported the situation faced by a  number
of  Bhutanese  refugees who were on a peace march to  Thimpu,  Bhutan,  to
appeal  to  the  King to resolve the Bhutanese refugee problem  through  a
process of national reconciliation.

The  original  150 peace marchers were detained in India in  January.  The
Siliguri  court, in India, declared their detention illegal  and  released
them on the 27 February. The court then ordered the release of another 273
marchers  who  were released on 28 February. The ruling  stated  that  the
imposition  was  illegal and that under the Bhutan Friendship  Treaty  the
Bhutanese  citizens had the full freedom of movement on Indian  territory.
At   that  time  a  further  344  Bhutanese  refugees  remained  in   Jail
(Bahrampur).

On  the  12  March,  a further 183 Refugees were arrested,  crossing  into
India.
On  the 19 of March 188 peace marchers were stopped and arrested violently
on  31  National highway Saheed Nagar, Siliguri, West Bengal The  marchers
are  still  being  detained in Jalpaiguri jail where  the  conditions  are
extremely poor and overcrowded.

The  Calcutta high court upheld the decision of the Jalpaiguri Courts that
stated  that all the peace marchers would have to sign a personal  release
bond  if they wished to be released.The bond, in effect, is a promise  not
to  disturb  the  peace  or  violate and  Indian  Law,  whilst  on  Indian
Terrirtory.

New Information:
On 12 June at 2PM, One of the peace marchers, Mr Babu Ram Shengden
detained in Barhampur Jail, died in Barhampur Sadar Hospital(West Bengal).
He was arrested on March 28 1996,.

His condition was poor when he was arrested and his health deteriorated
rapidly, despite frequent requests for appropriate medical attention. Only
in early June did Jail medical staff investigate and diagnosed TB.
Although given medicine, he did not recieve appropriate treatment. On the
11th June he was brought to Barhampur Civil Hospital, where he died.

OMCT has repeatedly warned of the consequences of the poor conditions in
the prison on the physical and psychological integrity of the marchers.
The current number of peace marchers currently detained is 896.(Due to
further arrests)

Action Requested
Please write to the Indian Authorities urging them to:

i.       Guarantee  the  physical and the psychological integrity  of  all
         the  peace marchers; including appropriate medical care, adequate
         food and immediate access to the prisoners;

ii.      Respect  the  original  decisions  of  the  court  regarding  the
         illegality of their detention;

iii.     Order  an immediate enquiry into the events in order to establish
         those  responsible  and bring them before a public  tribunal  and
         apply  the  appropriate sanctions provided by the law and  ensure
         redress for the family of Mr Shengden

iv.      Guarantee  at  all  times  the full  respect  for  human  rights,
         including   the  right  to  return  to  Bhutan,  and  fundamental
         freedoms according to national laws and international norms;

Addresses :
Please contact diplomatic representatives in your respective countries.

Geneva 14 June 1996

Kindly  inform us of any action undertaken quoting the code of the present
appeal in your reply.


--=====================_834773180==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Ben Schonveld
Projects Manager
OMCT - SOS Torture Tel: +41-22-733 31 40 
Case Postale 119   Fax: +41 22-733 31 40
CH 1211 Geneva 20  Conf: omctsostorture@conf.igc.apc.org
Switzerland        

--=====================_834773180==_--

.
<hr>3/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-62</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B026-122</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c4 194.10.201.200 19970108034119 text/html 1662
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:40:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1504
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: ojasti@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
For decades the land by the borderline at the Three Pagoda Pass has
remained an area of complicated ownership for Thai and Burmeses people.
Since 1991 the Mon refugees have been constantly forced to relocatedue to the land disputes in this area. The current land dispute area
is the SO called " Baleh Hanook" where  a few hundred Mon refugees were
located at Loh Loe in 1991. The Thai autorities were afraid that if
the Mon remained fr a longer time the Burmeses autorities would
- - - -
Three Pagoda Pass area. 

Mon refugee armers and the NMSP local autorities claimed that the 
area under discussion belonged to Burma and that they SO have right
to grow rice. Thai autorities did not agree and said  the Mon were
acting out orders of the Burmeses rgime, after all NMSP had made
- - - -
In case of CROSS-BORDER RELOCATION of the Mon refugees there has
been some critic to the Mon community leaders, MNRC and NMSP as
making the relocation of the refugees without their consent and
SO participating in "involuntary repatriation" or "forced repat-
riation". For MNRC the recent development was a "community orga-
nized relocation"  but we are not satisfied that such a relocation 
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=4">  Article </a><hr>4/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-63</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B026-176</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108034211 text/html 14137
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:41:21 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13978
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: ojasti@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: Mon Information Service 19.6.-96
Date: 20 Jun 1996 09:23:06 +0100 (SVT)





MON INFORMATION SERVICE JUNE 1996


**************************************

1. MNRC MAY 1996 REPORT
   A. RICE, LAND DISPUTES AND NEW REFUGEES
   B. LACK OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION.....

2. COMPASSION AND COLLUSION...

3. RECOMENDATIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY


**************************************




1. MNRC MAY 1996 REPORT


"But the manners of Thai authorities in
driving out the suffering farmers and
confiscating land are inhumane and
maltreatment of a weak community." 


A. RICE PLANTATION, LAND DISPUTE AND NEW ARRIVALS 

Since January, the MNRC and the Mon Resettlement  Committee which was
formed with mostly New MonState Party (NMSP) members from concerned 
District Administrative Body, have encouraged the refugees to prepare 
for rice plantation in this rainy season. To facilitate for smooth 
plantation process, that NMSP's committee hasarranged sharing land 
to the refugees who planned for growing rice, and the MNRC and the 
donor organization, Burmese Border Consortium, provided available tools 
such as machete, grass scythe, hoe, axe, saw, file and whetstone for 
them. The method of rice plantation in the mountainous area is
normally slash and burnt. 

According to registers received by MNRC from respective sites, 
there were 259 families from Halockhani, 143 families from Be Ree 
and only 91 families from Tavoy Area registered to grow rice and
then, when MNRC distribute rice seeds to those farmers, it was noted 
that 29 families from Halckhani and 5 families from Bee Ree have 
failed to grow. They explained that because of land soil they changed 
for other crops instead of rice, such as chilly and vegetables,
and some said they failed to grow because they have been delayed for
preparation time. Even when the MNRC and Mon Resettlement Committee have 
encouraged the refugees to grow rice, the rebuilding of houses and 
other needed structures in the camps  has taken time and only few
percent of the population has been able to grow rice. 

Furthermore, the number of farmer families has been reduced for 
several reasons; a land dispute on the borderline area, by the Halo-
ckhani camp ocurred between Mon refugee farmers nd Thai autorities.
For decades the land by the borderline at the Three Pagoda Pass has
remained an area of complicated ownership for Thai and Burmeses people.
Since 1991 the Mon refugees have been constantly forced to relocatedue to the land disputes in this area. The current land dispute area
is the <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> called " Baleh Hanook" where  a few hundred Mon refugees were
located at Loh Loe in 1991. The Thai autorities were afraid that if
the Mon remained fr a longer time the Burmeses autorities would
reclaim the land as part of Burma. For that reason the Mon refugees
have been forced to move from place to place.

Following the land dispute the Thai autorities, including armyand
border police, drove about 50 Mon refugee farmers from that area and
also confiscated their tools given to them by donor organizations.
Fears of Tai autorities have produced the forced relocations of the
Mon refugees since 1991. After the refugees were attacked by Burmeses
troops in July 1994 Thai autorities did not allow the refugees to re-
turn to Thai soil. Te refugees were forced by the Thai army to return
to the dangerous camp. Even temporary shelters for the refugees were
rejected by Thai autorities on Thai soil and on the borderline of
Three Pagoda Pass area. 

Mon refugee armers and the NMSP local autorities claimed that the 
area under discussion belonged to Burma and that they <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a> have right
to grow rice. Thai autorities did not agree and said  the Mon were
acting out orders of the Burmeses rgime, after all NMSP had made
a cease-fire agreement with SLORC. Anyhow, that is not the case
the land dispute is an issue to be agreed between the two governments.
But the manners of Thai autorities, in diving out the sufferin
farmers and confiscating land, are inhumane and a maltretment to a
weak community.

At the same time when the Mon farmers were forced to abandon their
rice plantations, not recieving protection from anybody, new arrivas
from several local Mon villages have arrived looking after a safe 
haven in Halockhani camp. After the confiscation of their mountai-
neous rice plantations they have no right to clear grass and reap
crops there. Because of the rduction of farmer numbers and land
confiscation the rice products in coming dry season must be re-
duced.


According to the reports sent by respetive camp committees 45 
families have taken refuge at Halockhani camp in May while 40
families arrived to Tavoy area. They already registered to be camp
residents. Their reasons to abandon their native home and flee to
the refugee camps are very similar. The native places of origin
of the Halockhani new arrivals are in the villages of the Ye
township in the Mon State, Yebyu township of Tenasserim Division
and Kya Inn Seik Kyi of Karen State. The new arrivals of Tavoy
Area come mostly from their home villages of Yebyu township.

According to interviews conducted by MNRC, most of them escaped
the human rights abuses committed by SLORC local troops such as 
conscription to forced labour  and porters and collection of
various kinds of tax in their villages of origin.  

 Besides such kinds of abuses,the torturing of villagers is still
occurring in local areas, as the Burmese soldiers never abandoned
their previous bad behaviour towards the people. The most terrible 
area is Tenasserim Division where the military government is im- 
plementing several infrastructure projects such as Ye-Tavoy railway 
and gas pipe-line. 

For the moment, the MNRC already completed transportation process 
of all supplies to all of its  camps to stock-pile in rainy season.
Third week of May the rainy season started and at the present it 
might be difficult to transport rice to Halockhani and impossible 
to Tavoy Area because all the roads used for transportation have
collapsed. Therefore the MNRC can not transport more supplies for
those new arrivals and the stock-piling assistance in the camps
shall not cover the needs of the refugees to the end of the year.



B. LACK OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION TO BURMA4S ETHNIC REFUGEES.


Compared with other refugees in the world, Cambodians, Kurds and
Afgans who had to leave their countries of origin due to human 
rights violations , the ethnic refugees of Burma have recieved no
international protection. The Burmese refugees, having the same
stories as other world refugees, forced by the civil war, perse-
cution, ethnic discrimination and other abuses have sought for
safe haven in Thailand as a country of asylum. Thailand, on the
other hand, has never welcome a well organized international
protection of Burmese refugees, contrarily of the principles
they have accepted on the Thai-Cambodia border.

Since the Burma4s ethnic refugees have been denied international
protection decisions to improve living conditions and security of
refugees must be made by the community itself together with the
political party holding arms and having fought for self determi-
nation. Such a protection, when facing government preassure is
however too fragile.  Community leaders and community organization
can not prevent the terrible consequences to the people. The 
refugees became pawns in political games and or economic struggle
of governments and profits. Terrible situations, forced relocation,
repatriation, threats for cutting supplies, blockage of roads for
transportation are means the autorities use putting the tolerance
of the refugees to a hard test.

In case of CROSS-BORDER RELOCATION of the Mon refugees there has
been some critic to the Mon community leaders, MNRC and NMSP as
making the relocation of the refugees without their consent and
<a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> participating in "involuntary repatriation" or "forced repat-
riation". For MNRC the recent development was a "community orga-
nized relocation"  but we are not satisfied that such a relocation 
lacked the organization and presence of the international commu-
nity and the principles adopted by by United Nations were ignored.

Other Burmeses refugees living under similar conditions have also
suffered the preassure and felt the absence of the international
protection. The Kachin refugees, taking refuge along the Chinese 
border, neither recieved international protection nor assistance
for survival. For that reason the Kachin refugee community is the
most isolated one of all the refugees from Burma.

Mon,Karen,Karenni and Shan refugees of Thai-Burma border have re-
cieved available assistance for survival but their safety has
allways been in danger and  several times the supplies were blocked 
to transport due to the preassure of Thai autorities. The interna-
tional protection is reluctant and possible safety was never pro-
vided by the country of asylum. Particularly Mon and Karen refugees
have been attacked by Burmese troops and refugees were arrested,
detained, killed and kidnapped. Because of such experiences the
refugees always feel very unsafe everywere even in Thailand.

The first suffering of the refugees was under the inhumane military
dictatorship, the second suffering they experienced on the border
camps where they expected to have safety. The practical internatio-
nal protection is still reluctant and no organization is able to
relieve this suffering. The international attention was present 
only in "hard situations" , forcefull migrations, military attacks
and flagrant violations. After the situation the international 
attention disappears and the refugees continue suffering.

The situation of Burma4s ethnic refugees has no international
protection, Burma, the country of origin offers no productive
situation for the repatriation. UNTIL THE TIME IS REACHED FOR
REPATRIATION THE REFUGEES STILL NEED THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
AS PROVIDED TO REFUGEES IN OTHER COUNTRIES OF ASYLUM ACCORDING
TO INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW ON REFUGEES.

*******************************************

2. COMPASSION AND COLLUSION, THE MON REPATRIATION AND THE
   ILLUSION OF CHOICE. 


RECOMMENDED!

A well documented 31 page research paper on the Mon Refugee issue
has been published, February 1996, by the Jesuit Refugee Service-
Asia/Pacific. Copies are available for 2.00 US or Thai Bt.50 at
JRS-AP  24/1 Sol Aree 4 ( South ) Phoholyothin Road 7
        Bangkok 10400 Thailand
	e-mail  jrsap@comnet2.ksc.net.th
	Tel + 66 2 279 1817
	Fax + 66 2 271 3632

FOR THOSE WHO WANT TO KNOW THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE STUDY WE COPY
THE "RECOMMENDATIONS" FROM THE PAGE 28 AS POIN 3 OF THIS MIS NUMBER.



*****************************************


3. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.


( From Compassion and Collusion.... p.28 )




A. Governments, international organizations, NGO4s and humanitarian
   groups should press for a repatriation which meets accepted inter-
   national standards for protection and assistance, garanteed by the
   governments involved, and should provide adequate funding and
   assistance to implement it.

B. Mon refugees should be formally recognized as refugees by the
   Thai government, and their legal options should be a matter of 
   public record.

C. The Thai government should autorize and facilitate UNHCR4s exercise
   of its internationsl mandate for protection, assistance and 
   durable solutions for Mon refugees.

D. The Thai government should allow unencumbered access to the BBC
   delivering assistance to the Mon before their repatriation, and
   should allow access to these areas at least until the end of 1996.

E. The Thai government should enact legislation recognizing refugees
   and the right of asylum.

F. UNHCR should continue to request the Burmese government to show
   good will by allowing fulla and free monitoring of Mon returnees.

G. The Thai and Burmese governments should as a matter of humanitarian
   intrest, extend the timetable for repatriation until the viability
   of integration is ensured.

H. The Burmese government should publicly accept its obligation to
   protect Mon returnees as citizens of Burma, free of harassment or
   human rights violations.

I. UNHCR or other recognized international organization should be
   given frequent and full access to the returnees. This monitoring
   should be from the Thai side if that is the only logistical way
   to ensure quality monitoring.

J. The Burmese and the Thai governments should allow cross-border
   reintegration assistance from the Thai side of the border until 
   such assistance is available from inside Burma.

K. As a show of good will, the cease fires should be followed up 
   with full peace negotiations.

L. Since UNHCR has a recognized international mandate to protect
   refugees, it should encourage to publicly comment on the Mon
   repatriation, or be held accountable when its silence communi-
   cates support for the status quo.

M. Embassy4s and other organizations should participate in this
   attempt to protect Mon returnees.

N. International organizations and embassies should consider their
   role in the repatriation and ensure adequate guarantees of access
   and monitoring  before financing a repatriation program.



			----ooooOOOOoooo----


MIS-Europe, PL 305, Fin-01301 Vantaa, Finland
	    e-mail  ojasti@katto.kaapeli.fi

.
<hr>4/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-64</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B026-219</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c5 194.10.201.200 19970108034254 text/html 472
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:42:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 315
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=5">  Article </a><hr>5/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-65</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B027-23</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108034344 text/html 5494
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:42:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5336
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: OMCT:ind23016-fu/Bhutan-India
Date: 25 Jun 1996 06:38:47

--=====================_835728316==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"



--=====================_835728316==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="IND23016.TXT"


Case IND 230196.9
Ninth Follow up of
Case IND 230196

The International Secretariat of OMCT/SOS-Torture requests your intervention 
in the following situation in India.

Brief description of the situation:

CVICT, a member of the network, reported the situation faced by a number of 
Bhutanese refugees who were on a peace march to Thimpu, Bhutan, to appeal to 
the King to resolve the Bhutanese refugee problem through a process of 
national reconciliation.

The original 150 peace marchers were detained in India in January. The 
Siliguri court, in India, declared their detention illegal and released them 
on the 27 February. The court then ordered the release of another 273 
marchers who were released on 28 February. The ruling stated that the 
imposition was illegal and that under the Bhutan Friendship Treaty the 
Bhutanese citizens had the full freedom of movement on Indian territory. At 
that time a further 344 Bhutanese refugees remained in Jail (Bahrampur).

On the 12 March, a further 183 Refugees were arrested, crossing into India. 
On the 19 of March, 188 peace marchers were stopped and arrested violently on 
31 National highway Saheed Nagar, Siliguri, West Bengal The marchers are 
still being detained in Jalpaiguri jail where the conditions are extremely 
poor and overcrowded.

The Calcutta high court upheld the decision of the Jalpaiguri Courts that 
stated that all the peace marchers would have to sign a personal release bond 
if they wished to be released. The bond, in effect, is a promise not to 
disturb the peace or violate any Indian Law, whilst on Indian Territory.

On 12 June 1996, Mr Babu Ram Shengden, a peace marcher who was detained in 
Barhampur Jail, died in Barhampur Sadar Hospital.  He had been arrested 28 
March 1996.  He had been in poor health before he was arrested, but the 
Indian authorities had failed to give him appropriate medical attention.  He 
had been put in the hospital on 11 June 1996.

Also on 12 June 1996, a further 50 Bhutanese peace marchers were arrested in 
Hasimara, near the Bhutanese border.  They are currently being detained in 
Alipurduar Jail.

On 19 June 1996, Indian police lathi charged 300 Bhutanese refugees marching 
in the funeral procession of Babu Ram Shengden to Bhutan.  One hundred people 
were injured.  In the end, the Bhutanese refugees were forced to flee, 
leaving the coffin behind. 

New Information:

On 19 June 1996, police removed the coffin of Babu Ram Shengden from 
Mahananda bridge and took it to an undisclosed location.

On 24 June 1996, a further 50 Bhutanese peace marchers, led by Balaram 
Subedl, were arrested in Gathia, on National Highway 31, in the Jalpaiguri 
district of West Bengal.  They had marched 7km from Luksan Bazaar and were 
almost to the Bhutanese border when approximately 15 Indian police officers 
in two jeeps arrested them.  The police said they had orders from the 
Jalpaiguri district magistrates to arrest the marchers under IPC Section 144 
CrPC.

There are now 994 Bhutanese Peace marchers being detained in India.  This is 
the twelfth group arrested since 17 January 1996.




Action Requested:

Please write to the Indian Authorities urging them to:

i.	Guarantee the physical and the psychological integrity of all the 
peace marchers; And release them in accordance with the original 
court ruling;

ii.	Guarantee an exhaustive and impartial enquiry into the events, 
find those responsible, bring them to trial, and apply penal, 
civil, and/or administrative sanctions provided by law;

iii.	Disclose the location of Babu Ram Shangden's body and return it to 
the marchers;

iv.	Guarantee at all times the full respect for human rights, 
including the right to return to Bhutan, and fundamental freedoms 
according to national laws and international norms.

Addresses:

President Shankar Dayal Sharma, Office of the President, Rashtrapati Bhavan, New 
Delhi 110 004. India. Fax : + 91 11 301 7290

Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, Office of the Prime Minister, Gate No. 6, South 
Block, New Delhi 110 001, India. Fax : + 91 11 301 9817

Diplomatic Representatives of India in your respective countries.

Geneva 25 June 1996

Kindly inform us of any action undertaken quoting the code of the present appeal 
in your reply
 


--=====================_835728316==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Ben Schonveld
Projects Manager
OMCT - SOS Torture Tel: +41-22-733 31 40 
Case Postale 119   Fax: +41 22-733 31 40
CH 1211 Geneva 20  Conf: omctsostorture@conf.igc.apc.org
Switzerland        

--=====================_835728316==_--

.
<hr>5/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-66</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B027-79</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c6 194.10.201.200 19970108034427 text/html 491
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:43:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 334
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: Paul Thomas <paulthomas@gn.apc.org>
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=6">  Article </a><hr>6/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-67</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B027-136</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108034506 text/html 1473
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:44:29 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1315
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: Paul Thomas  paulthomas@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: Vigil for Refugee Victims of Torture
Date: Tue, 02 Jul 1996 10:54:58 +0100 (BST)

				Vigil for Refugees
				Victims of Torture

			St Margaret's Chruch, Westminister
(next door to Westminister Abbey, opposite Houses of Parliament)

			Monday 8 July 1996
			12 noon - 6pm

The event will be a quiet and reflective act of support for
torture victims seeking asylum in this country.

Peroids of silence will be interspersed with reflectsion by Chruch 
leaders, refugees and people working directly with victims of toture.

Sponsorted by the Chruches Commission for Racial Justice (a Commisssion 
of the Churches of Britain and Ireland), Catholic Bishops Conferernce 
Committee on Migrants and REfugees, Refugee Council and the Medical 
Foundation for the Care of Victims of Torture.

For more details contact CCRJ on 0171 620 4444.
.
<hr>6/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-68</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B027-176</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c7 194.10.201.200 19970108034547 text/html 472
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:45:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 315
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=7">  Article </a><hr>7/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-69</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B027-223</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108034635 text/html 5104
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:45:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4946
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: omct@iprolink.ch
Newsgroups: hr.refugees
Subject: omct:IND230196.10 India/release
Date: 10 Jul 1996 05:06:54

--=====================_837018803==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"



--=====================_837018803==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"
Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="IND23016.TXT"


Case IND 230196.10
Tenth Follow up of
Case IND 230196

The International Secretariat of OMCT/SOS-Torture has just been informed of the release 
of all the Bhutanese Peace Marchers.

Brief description of the situation:

CVICT, a member of the network, reported the situation faced by a number of Bhutanese 
refugees who were on a peace march to Thimpu, Bhutan, to appeal to the King to resolve 
the Bhutanese refugee problem through a process of national reconciliation.

The original 150 peace marchers were detained in India in January. The Siliguri court, 
in India, declared their detention illegal and released them on the 27 February. The 
court then ordered the release of another 273 marchers who were released on 28 
February. The ruling stated that the imposition was illegal and that under the Bhutan 
Friendship Treaty the Bhutanese citizens had the full freedom of movement on Indian 
territory. At that time a further 344 Bhutanese refugees remained in Jail (Bahrampur).

Between 12 March and 12 June, 321 Bhutanese peace marchers had been arrested and 
detained.  Others were arrested and then immediately released..

The Calcutta high court upheld the decision of the Jalpaiguri Courts that stated that 
all the peace marchers would have to sign a personal release bond if they wished to be 
released. The bond, in effect, is a promise not to disturb the peace or violate any 
Indian Law, whilst on Indian Territory.

On 12 June 1996, Mr Babu Ram Shengden, a peace marcher who was detained in Barhampur 
Jail, died in Barhampur Sadar Hospital.  He had been arrested 28 March 1996.  He had 
been in poor health before he was arrested, but the Indian authorities had failed to 
give him appropriate medical attention.  He had been put in the hospital on 11 June 
1996.

Also on 12 June 1996, a further 50 Bhutanese peace marchers were arrested in Hasimara, 
near the Bhutanese border.  They are currently being detained in Alipurduar Jail.

On 19 June 1996, Indian police lathi charged 300 Bhutanese refugees marching in the 
funeral procession of Babu Ram Shengden to Bhutan.  One hundred people were injured.  
In the end, the Bhutanese refugees were forced to flee, leaving the coffin behind. The 
coffin of Babu Ram Shengden was removed 
later that evening by the police and taken to an undisclosed location.

New Information:

On 5 July 1996, all 791 Bhutanese peace marchers detained have been unconditionally 
released.  The decision came after the Calcutta High Court demanded justification from 
the public prosecutor of the Government of West Bengal for the continued detention of 
the Bhutanese peace marchers on 4 July. On 3 July, the  issue was brought up in the 
West Bengalis Legislative Assembly after strong lobbying efforts.

Since 20 June 1996, 143 of the peace marchers detained in Barhampur Jail had been 
conducting a hungerstrike.  When news of the unconditional release came, they 
immediately ended the hungerstrike.


The Bhutanese peace marchers are continuing their journey to Bhutan.

Remarks:

The International Secretariat expresses grave concern for the safety of the peace 
marchers as they arrive in Bhutan, given their history and extremely poor relations 
between the Bhutanese government and the Bhutanese people of Nepali descent. 



Please write to the Bhutanese authorities urging them to:

i.	guarantee the physical and psychological integrity of the Bhutanese peace 
	marchers as they arrive in the country;

ii.	guarantee at all times respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms 
	according to national law and international standards.

Addresses :

His Majesty Jigme Sinye Wangchuck, King of Bhutan, Tashichhodzong, Thimpu, BHUTAN.

Diplomatic Representatives of Bhutan in your respective countries.

Geneva 9 July 1996

Kindly inform us of any action undertaken quoting the code of this appeal in your 
reply.
 


--=====================_837018803==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Ben Schonveld
Projects Manager
OMCT - SOS Torture Tel: +41-22-733 31 40 
Case Postale 119   Fax: +41 22-733 31 40
CH 1211 Geneva 20  Conf: omctsostorture@conf.igc.apc.org
Switzerland        

--=====================_837018803==_--

.
<hr>7/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-70</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B023-218</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c8 194.10.201.200 19970108034714 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:46:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=8">  Article </a><hr>8/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-71</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B023-257</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108034801 text/html 12007
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:47:16 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 11848
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAMS -Forwa
Date: 09 Jul 1996 05:52:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAMS
FEBRUARY 26, 1996

Dear Friend:

On behalf of the Reebok Human Rights
Award Board of Advisors,
I invite you to nominate a candidate for the
1996 Reebok Human
Rights Award.  The Reebok Human
Rights Award gives well
deserved recognition to young people
who are on the forefront
of the fight for human rights in the United
States and around the
world.  In addition to a $25,000 grant, the
Award brings national
 and international attention to the
recipient#s work, giving moral
support and personal encouragement to
the recipient as well.

Past Reebok Human Rights Award
recipients have worked on many
different human rights issues including
violence, immigration,
torture, hunger, abandoned street
children, indentured servitude,
racism, and indigenous rights.  For
example, by establishing
a taskforce of volunteers, a 29-year-old
advocate for the rights
of battered women in the United States
documented cases of
unpunished domestic abuse.  By bringing
this documentation
to the attention of local government
officials, she has been
 insturmental in changing the legal system.
 When a 25-year-old
labor rights activist who received the
Award in 1994 traveled to
his native Nepal after coming to Boston
for the Award ceremony,
he learned that the King of Nepal would
be honoring him and
that the government decided, for the first
time, to recognize
his organization officially and to make the
issue of bonded labor
in agriculture a priority.  A 1991 Award
recipient was a legal
aide working for the rights of migrant
farmers in Florida.
He himself experienced the deplorable
living conditions and
abuses of migrant workers first hand
before becoming an
activist himself.

As you can see from these examples,
candidates must be 30 years
 of age or younger, must not advocate
violence or belong to an
organization that advocates violence, and
must be actively working
, often against great odds, on some
aspect of human rights as
defined by the United Nations Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.

I have enclosed a nomination packet
which details the Awar
d criteria and the nomination
requirements.  We will also
accept nominations submitted on the
Internet.  Please mail the
 completed nomination packet no later
than 30 April, 1996 to:

The Reebok Human Rights Award
100 Technology Center Drive
Stoughton, MA 02072
Internet: Siobhan_Flaherty@mcimail.com

We welcome your participation in
encouraging young activists
and champioining their work.

Sincerely,

Douglas Cahn, Director
Human Rights Programs



1996 REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS
AWARD

PURPOSE OF AWARD
Established in 1988, the Reebok Human
Rights Award
honors young people from the United
States and around
the world who ahve made significant
contributions to the
cause of human rights, often against great
odds.

The purpose of the Award is to shine a
positive, international
 light on the awardees and to support their
work in human
rights.  A $25,000 grant is given to further
the work of each
 Award recipient.

ELIGIBILITY
Award canditates must be 30 years of
age or younger on
October 31, 1996.

Award candidates cannot advocate
violence or belong to
 an organization that advocates violence.

Award candidates must be working on an
issue that directly
 relates to the United Nations #Universal
Declaration of
Human Rights#.

Women and men of all races, ethnic
groups, citizenships and
 religions are eligible.

GUIDELINES
The Reebok Human Rights Award is
given to an individual,
 based on that individual#s personal
achievement and commitment
..  It is not given to groups of people,
organizations, or as a
memorial award to people who have died.

Letters of recommendation should
highlight why the individual
is being recommended for the Award,
how long the nominator
 has been aware of the individual#s
contributions and any significant
obstacles overcome by the candidate.
Personal information on
family background and the history of how
the candidate began
doing human rights work is also
cncouraged.

Nominators must specify whehter the
Award candidate has
received or is currently nominated for
other human rights
awards.

A complete nomination includes an
application form, a letter
of nomination, three additional letters of
support, proof of age
and any additional items which describe
the candidate#s work.
These items may be sent separately
(please note on the

application form what items are being sent
separately).

Nominations must be received by April
30, 1996.








BOARD OF ADVISORS
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
39th President of the United States

KERRY KENNEDY CUOMO
Founder, Robert F. Kennedy Memorial
Center for Human Rights

PAUL FIREMAN
Chairman & CEO, Reebok International
Ltd.

PETER GABRIEL
Musical Artist

ELAINE JONES
Director-Counsel, NAACP Legal Defense
Fund


RAFER JOHNSON
Olympic Decathlete & President,
California Special Olympics

C. JOSEPH LABONTE
President &CEO, Jenny Craig, Inc.

LI LU
Alliance for a Democratic China &
Reebok Human Rights
Award Recipient

ANGEL MARTINEZ
President & CEO, The Rockport Co.

MICHAEL POSNER
Executive Director, Lawyer#s Committee
for Human Rights

MICHAEL STIPE
Musical Artist

ROSE STYRON
Peot/Journalist

LEONARD ZAKIM
New England Regional Director,
Anti-Defamation League










PRIX REEBOK DES DROITS HUMAINS
CANDIDATURES 1996

OBJET DU PRIX
Cree en 1988, le Prix Reebok des Droits
Humains rend
hommage aux jeunes gens des
Etats-Unis et du monde
entier qui ont apporte une contribution
importante a la
cause des droits humains, en surmontant
souvent de
grands obstacles.

Ce prix a pour objet de faire connaitre
internationalement
les beneficiaires et de promouvoir leurs
oeuvres dans le
domaine des droits humains.  Un
subvention de 25 000 $,
pour le soutien du travail du beneficiaire,
est accordee
a l#organisation de son choix.

ELIGIBILITE
Les candidats doivent etres ages de 30
ans ou moins,
au 31 octobre 1996.

Les candidats ne peuvent pas precher la
violence ou
appartenir a un orgnaisme qui preche la
violence.  Les
candidats doivent oeuvrer dans un
domaine qui est
directement lie a la #Declaration
universelle des droits de
 l#homme# des Nations-Unies.

Sont admissibles les hommes et les
femmes de toute race,
de tout groupe ethnique, de toute
citoyennete et de toute religion.

DIRECTIVES
Le prix Reebok des Droits Humains est
decerne a une personne,
sur la base de ses realisations et de ses
engagements. Il n#est
jamais decerne a un groupe de
personnes, a une organisation
ou, comme prix commemoratif, a une
personne decedee.

 Dans leur lettre de mise en candidature,
les personnes qui
proposent un candidat doivent expliquer
pourquoi ils
recommendent ce candidat, depuis
combien de temps ils
sont au courant des contributions de ce
candidat, et les
obstacles important qu#a surmonte ce
candidat. Nous
aimerions egalement avoir des details
personnels sur la famille
 du candidat et connaitre les conditions
dans lesquelles le
candidat a commence a oeuvrer dans le
domaine des droits humains.

Les personnes qui proposent un candidat
doivent specifier si
ce candidat a recu ou postuel a l#heure
actuelle d#autres
recompenses en matiere de droits de la
personne.

Le dossier de mise en candidature
comprend un formulaire de
 demande, une lettre de msie en
candidature, trois autres
lettres de soutien, la preuve de l#age du
candidat et tout
autre information qui decrit le travail du
candidat.  Vous
pouvez envoyer ces docuemtns
separement (veuillez noter
sur votre formulaire de demande les
documents que vous
 envoyez sous pli separe).

La date limite de mise en candidature est
le 30 avril 1996.
 Le dossier de msi en candidature devra
etre redige
en anglais si possible.






SOLICITUD PARA LA NOMINACION
DEL PREMIO
DE DERECHOS HUMANOS REEBOK
1996

OBJETO DEL PREMIO
Establecido en 1988, el premio de
Derechos Humanos Reebok
honra a la juventud de los Estados Unidos
y del mundo, que han
 hecho contribuciones importantes para la
causa de los
 derechos humanos, a menudo en contra
de grandes adversidades.

El objeto del premio es hacer brillar una
luz positiva en el
entorno internacional sobre los
galrdonados y apoyar su labor
 en favor de los derechos humanos.  Se
otorga una donacion
de $25,000 dolares para promver el
trabajo de cada galardonado.

ELEGIBILIDAD
Los candidatos al premio deben ser no
mayores de 30 anos a
l 31 de octubre de 1996.

Los candidatos al premio no pueden
promover la violencia a
pertenecer a una organizacion que
promueva la violencia.

Los candidatos al premio deben estar
dedicados a cuestiones
que se relacionen directamente con la
#Declaracion Unviersal
de los Derechos Humanos# de las
Naciones Unidas.

Se seleccionanan a mujeres y homres de
todas las razas, grupas
 etnicos, ciudadsnias y religiones.

REGLAS
El Premio de Derechos Humanos
Reebok es otorgado a una
persona, en base a sus logros y
compromisos persnales.  No
 es asignado a agrupaciones,
organizaciones o como homenaje
postuma a personas fallecidsas.

Las cartas de recomendacion deberan
destacar las razones por
 las que la persona nomnada al Premio es
encomiada, por cuanto
 tiempo el proponente ha estado enterado
de las contribuciones
de la persona y todos los obstaculos
significativos que han sido
superados por el nominado.  Se invita a
dar informacion con
respecto a los antecedentes familiares y
la hstoria de como el
candidato empezo a laborar en pro de los
derechos humanos.

Los proponentes deben especificar si el
canddato al Premio ha
 recibido o esta acutalmente nomnado
para otros premios de
 derechos humanos.

Una nominacion completa incluye una
forma de solicitud, una
 carta de nominacion, tres cartas
adicionales de apoyo,
acreditacion de la edad y cualquier
elemento complementario
que describa el trabajo del candidato.
Dichos elementos se
pueden enviar separadamente (por favor
anote en la solicitud
 que elemntos se enviaran por seprardo).

Las nominaciones deberan ser recibidas
antes del 30 de abril
de 1996.  Las nominaciones deben ser
presentadas en Ingles
 cuando sea posible.




APPLICATION FORM

Nominations should be in English when
possible
Las nomnaciones deben ser presentadas
en Ingles cuando
sea posible.
Les lettres de presentation devront etre
redigees
en anglais si possible.

CANDIDATE
First name:
Family Name:
Date of Birth (Day/Month/Year):
Sex (M/F):
Address:
Street/P.O. Box:
City:
State:
Zip:
Country:
Phone (Work/Home):
Fax:
e-mail:

NOMINATOR
Name:
Address:
Street/P.O.Box:
City:
State:
Zip:
Country:
Phone (Work/Home):
Fax:
e-mail:

LETTER OF SUPPORT (Name; Phone;
Fax)
1)
2)
3)

NOMINATIONS MUST INCLUDE
THE FOLLOWING ITEMS
- A completed application form
- A letter of nomination
- Three addtional letters of support for the
candidate
Copy of birth certificat or other proof of
age.
Nominee must be 30 years of age or
younger
on October 31, 1996
- Supporting materials such as:
photographs,
newspaper clipping, narratives or other
items
describing the candidate#s work

PLEASE SEND THE COMPLETED
NOMINATION
BY APRIL 30, 1996 TO:
THE REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS AWARD
REEBOK INTENRATIONAL LTD.
100 TECHNOLOGY CENTER DRIVE
STOUGHTON, MA 02072 U.S.A.
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
THE REEBOK HUMAN RIGHTS
PROGRAM AT:
617 341 5000 ext. 7321 (phone)
617 297 4806 (fax)
Siobhan_Flaherty@mcimail.com (internet)




## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>8/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-72</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B023-302</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c9 194.10.201.200 19970108034844 text/html 934
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:48:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 777
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
twochallenges. First, he has to achieve an agreement on the allocation of  
thecabinet posts with his junior coalition allies, the CDU and the  CDA.  
Asthe CDU-CPP leader, Mr. Lux, indicated, the allies would like to  
increasetheir share of power SO that the future cabinet is composed  
according to a8:4:4 ratio. Secondly, and more importantly, Klaus will have  
to reach anunderstanding with the Social Democrats on the terms of their  
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=9">  Article </a><hr>9/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-73</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-42</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108034935 text/html 12957
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:48:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 12798
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: EELM: CZECH REPUBLIC -- JUNE 1996,
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:31:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

EAST EUROPEAN LEGISLATIVE MONITOR

CZECH REPUBLIC -- JUNE 1996, vol. I, no. 3

THE BILLS
No bills due to the House of Deputies elections on May 31 and June 1,  
1996.The previous House of Deputies' session was adjourned on April 26,  
1996.

NEW LAWS
No new laws.

POLITICAL PARTIES
The House of Deputies elections on May 31 and June 1, 1996.

FACTS
Czech Republic

Constitution: Constitution of the Czech Republic, entered into effect  
onJanuary 1, 1993.  The Charter of Fundamental Rights and  
Liberties,originally adopted by the Czechoslovak Parliament in 1991, forms  
anintegral part of the Czech Constitution.

Head of State: Vaclav Havel, President of the Republic

Government: A three-party, center-right government formed by the  
PrimeMinister Vaclav Klaus's Civic Democratic Party ( CDP), the  
ChristianDemocratic Union, Czechoslovak People's Party (CDU-CPP) and the  
CivicDemocratic Alliance ( CDA). The Government will resign and a new  
governmentformed after the May 31, June 1 election.

Parliament: The Parliament currently functions with one, 200 seatchamber-- 
called the House of Deputies. The constitution, however,prescribes a two- 
chamber parliament. The first elections to the 81 seatsecond chamber-- the  
Senate--are scheduled for November 15-16, 1996.

Major Parties in the Parliament: Six parties received more than  
therequired five percent in the May 31, June 1 House of Deputies  
elections.Seat allocation in the new, 200 seat House of Deputies is as  
follows: theCivic Democratic Party ( CDP) - 68 seats; the Czech Social  
Democratic Party(CSDP) - 61 seats; the Communist Party of Bohemia and  
Moravia (CPBM) - 22seats; the Christian Democratic Union and Czechoslovak  
People's Party(CDU-CPP) - 18 seats; the Assembly for the Republic and the  
CzechoslovakRepublican Party (ARCRP) - 18 seats; and the Civic Democratic  
Alliance(CDA) - 13 seats.

Next Parliamentary Elections: The next House of Deputies elections  
willtake place in four years. Senate elections have not been held,  
butballoting is scheduled for November 15-16, 1996.

Parliamentary Electoral Formula: House of Deputies: representation is  
basedon a proportional system of parties that reach the five percent  
threshold.Senate: 81 single party, independent candidate districts with  
two tiers.The candidate with a majority wins the seat.

Legislative Procedure: Initiative: Any deputy, group of deputies,  
senator,government, and the higher territorial self governing unit  
assembly (theregional assembly) may initiate proposed legislation.  
Adoption requirementsfor regular bills: simple majority in both chambers.  
Adoption requirementsfor constitutional laws and international treaties on  
human rights: 3/5thsmajority of the total number of deputies and a 3/5ths  
majority of senatorspresent. veto: Senate has the right to veto all  
legislation and thepresident has the power to veto all legislation, expect  
constitutionalamendments. Vetoes can be overridden by a majority of the  
total number ofdeputies.

POLITICAL PARTIES

The elections produced a stunning outcome. This was the first  
opportunityfor the population of the Czech Republic to select a government  
since thesplit with Slovakia in 1993. Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus's center- 
rightcoalition, consisting of his Civic Democratic Party ( CDP) and two  
smallerallies--the Christian Democratic Party (KDU-CSL) and Civic  
DemocraticAlliance ( CDA)--was stripped of its parliamentary majority.  
Thiscoalition, which has ruled the Czech Republic for the last four years,  
wononly 99 seats--down from 112, and 2 less than a simple majority in  
the200-seat House of Deputies. President Havel has called on Mr. Klaus to  
tryto form a new government. He faces an uneasy challenge: obtaining  
thesupport of the strongest opposition party--the Social Democrats (  
CSDP). Itappears that he has achieved a basic agreement in only a week  
since theelections by granting the  CSDP leader, Milos Zeman, the House of  
Deputies'Chairmanship.
        Mr. Klaus's Civic Democratic Party received the strongest  
supporton election day with 29.6  percent of popular vote or 68  
parliamentaryseats. This figure is similar to result of the 1992  
elections. The realwinner of the elections, however,  was the opposition  
center-left CzechSocial Democratic Party ( CSDP) led by economist Milos  
Zeman. With a 26.4percent share of the popular vote, Zeman's Social  
Democrats leaped  from 24to 61 seats and now ranks as the parliament's  
second strongest party. Onlyfour other parties were able to achieve the  
required five percent. TheCommunist Party of Bohemia and Moravia (CPBM)  
received 10.3 percent or 22seats; the Christian Democratic Union -  
Czechoslovak People's Party(CDU-CPP) received 8.08 percent or 18 seats;  
the far-right Republican Party(ARCRP) received 8.01 percent or 18 seats;  
and the Civic DemocraticAlliance ( CDA) received 6.3 percent and 13 seats.
        Ten other parties ran in the elections but failed to break the  
5percent threshold. Pensioners for Life Securities, commonly referred to  
asthe "gray party" earned 3.09 percent, the right-wing Democratic  
Unionearned 2.8 percent, the Free Democrats, chaired by the popularformer- 
Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier, earned 2.05 percent and threeMoravian  
separatist parties earned little support--the Left Block and theCzech- 
Moravian Union of the Center lost their seats in the House ofDeputies.
        Voter turnout was a strong 76.26 percent, but this was down  
fromthe nearly 85 percent turnout in the 1992 elections.
        The Central Electoral Commission, the body charged with  
supervisingthe elections, received no complaints. However, shortly before  
theelections, the Constitutional Court in Brno ruled on two election  
issues.On May 15 the court upheld the constitutionality of the requirement  
thatmandatory registration fees be paid by the parties. On May 28 the  
courtoverturned a controversial decision by the Central Electoral  
Commission.The Court denied the Commission (made up of a panel of the  
politicalparties' representatives) the power to decide that a registered  
politicalparty constitutes a coalition. To gain a seat in parliament, a  
two-partyparty coalition must earn at least 7 percent of the vote.
        The Social Democrats sensational gains--almost a four fold  
gainfrom 1992--do not, however, indicate a shift of the electorate to the  
left. Unlike most East European countries, the current, pro-market, center- 
rightcoalition did not lose support during the last four years. (The loss  
of 13parliamentary seats is largely due to the seat distribution system.)  
CSDP'ssuccess is a not a result of dissatisfaction, but rather of the  
leftistvoters consolidating their support, which was previously split  
among manyparties, into one center-left party. The fact that the  CSDP is  
not atransformed ex-communist party is significant. The party was  
originallyestablished in 1878 and played a major role in Czech politics  
before WW II.This tradition, backed by an aggressive and well organized  
campaign in whichMr. Seaman criss-crossed the country in a bus nicknamed  
Zemak (potato) andrelentlessly attacked the economic reform program's  
shortcomings--incombating crime and, in particular, tax evasion, housing,  
health care andsocial policy--allowed the  CSDP to collect the protest  
votes of largesegments of society.
        Ironically, the CDP's backward-looking campaign, which stressed  
theachievements in the transformation of the society, helped some  
disaffectedvoters, who, nonetheless support reform, feel secure enough  
about Czechdemocracy to not feel obliged to vote for the governmental  
parties.
        As a result of the split vote, neither Klaus's Civic Democrats  
norZeman's Social Democrats are in a position to form a majority  
government.This is due to the fact that neither wants to form a coalition  
with thelittle reformed communists or the extreme and unpredictable far- 
rightRepublicans, which, together, won 40 seats.
        To form a left-wing government, the CSDP would need the  
CommunistParty's support. However, such an alliance has always been out of  
questionfor them. The journalist and a  CSDP-party member Premysl Janyr  
said thatany contemplation of forming a government with the tacit support  
of theCommunists would be--due to the Communist's current political  
course--suicide.
        Similarly, three ruling center-right parties refuse to rely onfar- 
right Republican Party's support to increase its seats from 4 to 18because  
of the Republican's virulently anti-Gypsy and anti-German platform.The  
Republicans do not intend to back any government. "Our instructions arenot  
to support anything or anybody," a Republican MP announced to themedia.
        In the first days following the elections, several scenarios  
ofbreaking the stalemate were discussed but, for the time being,  
rejected.The most obvious option, an early new election, found no support  
by themainstream parties. This alternative, likely to hang like Damocles'  
swordover the Czech political scene in the months and perhaps years ahead,  
wasonly endorsed by the leader of the Republican party.
        The two strongest parties, the  CDP and the  CSDP have also  
refusedto form a "grand coalition." This alternative was favored by Mr.  
Kalvoda,the leader of a minor  CDP coalition partner. Kalvoda, and some  
observers,argued that only the Austrian style "grand coalition" composed  
of the  CDPand the CSDP would create the necessary conditions for a stable  
government.        After the opposition CSDP dropped its outright  
insistence thatKlaus step down and agreed to support a right-of-center  
coalition of theCDP, the  CDA and the CDU-CPP under certain conditions,  
President Havel,who has been meeting with leading politicians to find a  
solution, askedKlaus on June 6 to begin negotiations on forming a minority  
government.
        At the same time, Havel asked members of the ruling three- 
partycoalition "to continuously discuss with the Czech Social Democratic  
Partyall aspects of its possible support for the government".
        The unofficially designated future Prime Minister Klaus faces  
twochallenges. First, he has to achieve an agreement on the allocation of  
thecabinet posts with his junior coalition allies, the CDU and the  CDA.  
Asthe CDU-CPP leader, Mr. Lux, indicated, the allies would like to  
increasetheir share of power <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> that the future cabinet is composed  
according to a8:4:4 ratio. Secondly, and more importantly, Klaus will have  
to reach anunderstanding with the Social Democrats on the terms of their  
support forhis minority government.
        In the meantime, the Social Democrats announced a list of  
theirrequirements. The  CSDP will withdraw its support, if the government  
programincludes fees for university education, Klaus's beloved idea of  
"individualheath care accounts," or further privatization of the transport  
and energysectors. Moreover, the program must include the creation of the  
regionalself-governments, removing the pension fund from the state budget,  
andintroducing a bill requiring that individuals prove the origin of  
theirassets. Furthermore, the  CSDP insists on reforming the health care  
system,in particular, reducing the number of health insurance  
companies,establishing a housing fund and adopting a law protecting  
tenants, a newlabor code, establishing an ombudsman's office and  
substantial reforming themeans-tested social subsidy scheme.
        Mr. Klaus responded by saying these requirements are  
exaggerated.On the other hand, Klaus's coalition appears ready to allow  
the  CSDP todominate Parliament. The  CSDP demanded House of Deputies'  
Chairmanship andthe chair of several committees. Mr. Zeman announced that  
if elected to theChairmanship, he would support proportional  
representation in theparliamentary organs. This means that members of both  
the Communist Partyand the Republican Party may fill some important  
parliamentary positions.

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>9/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-74</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-85</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c10 194.10.201.200 19970108035018 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:49:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=10">  Article </a><hr>10/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-75</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-131</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108035059 text/html 2594
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:50:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2436
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/30683] Antigua And Barbuda Hur
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:31:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0187

 ------------------------




                        CARIBBEAN HURRICANE BERTHA
                    DHA-GENEVA INFORMATION REPORT NO.2
                               08 JULY 1996




       THIS MESSAGE IS NOT AN OFFICIAL HURRICANE WARNING OR ALERT FOR ANY
COUNTRY.



    1.  THE US NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE REPORTS THAT HURRICANE
  WARNING CONTINUES FROM      DOMINICA NORTHWARD AND WESTWARD TO
  PUERTO RICO.  GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN                REPUBLIC HAS
  ISSUED HURRICANE WARNING FROM CABO CAUCEDO ON SOUTH COAST TO
    MONTE CRISTO ON NORTH COAST NEAR BORDER OF HAITI.  GOVERNMENT OF
  BAHAMAS HAS           ISSUED HURRICANE WATCH FOR THE TURKS AND
  CAICOS ISLANDS AND THE                     SOUTHEAST BAHAMAS.

    2.   US NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE INDICATES THAT AS OF 12:00 UTC
  TODAY 8 JULY,         CENTRE OF HURRICANE BERTHA WAS LOCATED NEAR
  LATITUDE 18.0 NORTH AND LONGITUDE          63.5 WEST JUST WEST OF
  ST. MAARTEN).  MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS ARE NEAR 80 MILES       PER
  HOUR 130 KILOMETERS PER HOUR)

    3.   CARIBBEAN DISASTER EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGENCY (CDERA) HAS
  CONTACTED ST. KITTS   AND NEVIS, ANGUILLA AND ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA
  AND THE BRITISH  VIRGIN ISLANDS.           REPORTS INDICATE MINIMAL
  IMPACT IN ST. KITTS AND NEVIS AND ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA.    THE
  BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS IN FINAL STAGES OF PREPARATION.


  TELEPHONE NO: +41-22-917.12.34
  IN CASE OF EMERGENCY ONLY: +41-22-917.20.10
  DESK OFFICER: MR. E. HAEGGLUND TEL +41 22 917 32.99/MR. C. PEREIRA,
  DIRECT TEL. +41-22-917.13.83
  PRESS   TO   CONTACT:   MS.   M.   MOULIN-ACEVEDO,   DIRECT   TEL.:
  +41-22-917.28.56
  TELEX: 414242 DHA CH
  FAX: +41-22-917.00.23
  EMAIL: DHAGVA AT DHA.UNICC.ORG





                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>10/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-76</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-180</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c11 194.10.201.200 19970108035152 text/html 943
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:51:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 786
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
policiesand asking for the support of the opposition parties. Although it  
has astable legislative majority with strong party discipline, the BSP  
hasproven unable to introduce quick and timely cabinet changes. This  
inabilityis partially due to Prime Minister Videnov's reluctance to do SO.  
In Marcha BSP party forum, declared such changes indispensable--however,  
since theforum the only cabinet member removed by Videnov was the Minister  
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=11">  Article </a><hr>11/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-77</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-232</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108035234 text/html 7417
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:51:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7259
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: EELM: BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:31:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: EELM: BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I, no. 3 (part 2) L#1

UPDATE:

The law ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY  was passed May 9, promulgated May 21  
andenacted June 1 (See EELM: Bulgaria -- May, vol. I, no. 2).

The law ON MEASURES AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING was passed May 22  
andpromulgated June 4 (See EELM: Bulgaria -- April, vol. I, no.1
1).
The AMENDMENT TO THE LAW" ON ELECTION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT"  
waspassed May 9 and promulgated May 21 (See EELM: Bulgaria -- April, vol.  
I,no. 1).

The AMENDMENT TO THE "BANK AND FOUNDING ACT" was passed May 14  
andpromulgated May 15 (See EELM: Bulgaria -- May, vol. I, no. 2.).



POLITICAL PARTIES

In May the BSP government had to face a sudden financial and  
economiccrisis that challenged not only its current strategies and  
policies, butits entire ability to cope with the tasks of the economic and  
socialtransition in Bulgaria.
        The major elements of the crisis are:
        1. The banking system crisis. Procedures for the bankruptcy  
ofthree banks (including the biggest private bank, First Private Bank)  
wereinitiated, after Parliament passed the relevant law in May.
        2. A decline in public sector industrial production. During  
1995Bulgaria's GDP grew 2.6 percent after 1.4 percent growth during  
1994.However, in early 1996 this trend reversed: in February, public  
sectorindustrial production dropped by 8 percent relative to a year  
earlier,while March saw a 9 percent drop. During the first quarter as a  
whole,public sector industrial production took a 1 percent  drop compared  
to thesame period of 1995. This drop in productivity led the cabinet to  
reviseits growth projections for the rest of the year. Instead of the  
originallyenvisaged 3 percent increase of real GDP, the cabinet now  
predicts flatgrowth.
        3. Devaluation of the  lev. In January the exchange rate stood  
at76  lev per USD. However, in March it had leapt to 200-- currently  
theexchange rate is about 140  lev per USD. Correspondingly, the base  
interestrate has jumped from 39  to 108 percent.
        4. Sharp interest rate increases. In an attempt to check the  
steepdepreciation of the  lev, the BNB raised the base interest ratetwice-- 
first from 34 to 42 percent on February 5, then to 49 percent onMarch 6.  
However, these efforts were insufficient and on May 10, the baseinterest  
rate was hiked by an unprecedented 41 percentage points to 108percent and  
the BNB undertook active interventions in support of the  lev.
        5. Plummeting public support. During the first quarter,  
financiallosses of public enterprises from the industrial sector of the  
economy haveincreased approximately 12 percent compared to the same period  
of 1995. Inan attempt to solve this problem, the cabinet has approved the  
sale of 64state-owned companies. Moreover, another 70 state-owned  
enterprises will bebarred from borrowing money from banks. The public  
support of the cabinetand of acting Prime Minster Videnov is declining  
(public opinion surveysrecorded a drop in support of the cabinet of about  
ten points between Marchand May). International financial institutions  
have forced the BSP tointroduce drastic economic reform measures (closing  
down unprofitableenterprises, more than tripling the price of electricity,  
and almostdoubling the price of oil), which will inevitably cost the BSP  
even morepublic support.
        Trade unions are preparing mass protests against the BSP's  
policiesand asking for the support of the opposition parties. Although it  
has astable legislative majority with strong party discipline, the BSP  
hasproven unable to introduce quick and timely cabinet changes. This  
inabilityis partially due to Prime Minister Videnov's reluctance to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>.  
In Marcha BSP party forum, declared such changes indispensable--however,  
since theforum the only cabinet member removed by Videnov was the Minister  
of theInterior, who submitted his resignation after a scandalous  
interviewbroadcast on national TV. On May 31, a second BSP forum was held,  
at whichVidenov  was confronted with extremely critical assessments by  
some of theBSP MPs and party activists. The forum gave Videnov a week to  
introducemajor changes in the cabinet.

The major event for the opposition in May was the primary elections for  
theopposition presidential candidate. One of the opposition's most  
importantaccomplishments was the agreement it reached with the  
cabinet(specifically, Vice-Prime Minister Konakchiev) for official support  
andtechnical assistance for the primaries. The government provided the  
pollingboxes, buildings to house the polling stations, and security at the  
pollingsites.
        The primary polling stations were generally situated at the  
samesites to be used for the general election. The exact number of the  
pollingstations and their geographic distribution was one of the  
mostcontroversial issues to be resolved by the opposition partners, since  
theUDF candidate, Petar Stoyanov, is more popular in the three biggest  
cities,while President Zhelev's (the other candidate) support comes mainly  
fromrural and ethnic Turkish voters.
        The primaries were held June 1 and open to all eligible voters  
(theprimaries were neither closed [i.e., restricted only to party members]  
norcaucuses). The turnout was unexpectedly high--over 850,000 people  
tookpart. This amounts to about 20 percent of the eventual participants in  
thegeneral presidential elections and more than one-third of the votes  
neededfor victory in the general election.
        Stoyanov  won a clear victory of 66 percent, while Zhelev took  
33percent. The opposition parties asserted that the high turnout and  
thelarge margin of victory were symptoms of widespread discontent with  
BSPpolicy and evidence of growing public support for their platform.
        The primary results also encouraged the opposition MPs to  
initiatea vote of no confidence as a first step towards early elections,  
despitethe lack of any signal from BSP MPs that their ranks might be split  
by thecurrent political and economic crisis. The three opposition parties  
(UDF,PU and MRF) declared their intention to initiate such a vote, joined  
forthe first time by  BBB (since the election of the current cabinet,  
BBBleaders have always voted against the no-confidence votes initiated by  
theopposition). In any case, these are the first primaries ever held  
inEurope, and they are seen as a major step towards rationalization of  
thecooperation among the opposition parties.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>11/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-78</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-288</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c12 194.10.201.200 19970108035321 text/html 848
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:52:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 691
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
theproprietor of the new place of residence." (Art. 6)
        "A person willing to register cannot be refused if he/she  
presentsall documents indicated in Art. 6, and no other law prevents doing  
SO."(ART. 7)
        Strong opposition is expected from the police and local  
governingbodies because they would be losing both influence and a source  
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=12">  Article </a><hr>12/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-79</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B024-343</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108035407 text/html 13990
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:53:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13831
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: EELM: GEORGIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I,
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:31:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

EAST EUROPEAN LEGISLATIVE MONITOR

GEORGIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I, no. 3

BILLS
Amendments to the Law "On Universal Military Obligations" (12/29/ 
1992)"Registration  of  Persons  Residing  in Georgia
Procedures Connected with Bankruptcy

RULES AND PROCEDURES
On the Regulation of the Georgian Parliament

POLITICAL PARTIES

FACTS
Georgia

Constitution:  Ratified August 24, 1995.

Head Of State:  Eduard Shevardnadze.

Government:  No dual executive. The president is head of  
government.Citizens Union (Chaired by President Shevardnadze) composes the  
government.

Parliament: Currently Parliament functions with one chamber.  A two- 
chamberParliament is envisioned by the Constitution once self-governing  
bodieshave been created throughout the country.

Major Parties in Parliament:  Citizens Union (CU) 120 seats;   
NationalDemocratic Party (NDP) - 37 seats; All Georgia Union of Revival  
(AGUR) - 31seats.

Last Parliamentary Elections/Next: November 5, 1995/November 1999.

Parliamentary Electoral Formula: Two tiers: 150 seats through nation - 
widerepresentation based on proportional system through party lists;  
85singe-member party/independent candidate districts on majority  
electoralsystem.

Legislative Procedure:  President, any deputy, parliamentary  
committees,any citizen with petition of 30,000 voters; Adoption  
requirements forregular bills: Majority of those present but no less than  
1/3rd of thetotal number of all MPs;  Organic bills: Majority of MPs from  
total numberof all MPs; three readings. President has veto power that can  
be overriddenby the qualified majority of 3/5ths of total number of all  
MPs.


BILLS

The bill ON  AMENDMENTS TO THE LAW "ON UNIVERSAL MILITARY OBLIGATION(12/29/ 
 1992)" was proposed due the large scale draft evasion, and thespread of  
corruption within those government bodies responsible forconscription.  
Though Parliament passed the bill, the president vetoed andreturned it for  
revisions.
        During the debates members of the parliamentary majority as well  
asrepresentatives of the government stressed the need to prevent  
draftevasion. The opposition, however, argued that the problem is caused,  
not byexcessive liberalism in the current legislation, but by the low  
morale andpoor living conditions in the country's military units. Against  
thebackground of numerous patriotic slogans, Parliament passed the bill  
andsent it to president for approval. The resolution adopted by the  
Parliamentamended Art. 1 of the law to the following wording:
"1. Citizens of Georgia have obligations for military service.
2. Citizens of Georgia who evade military or alternative service are  
notallowed to:
i. be appointed to senior official positions in state bodies or be  
electedto state or local government administrations;
ii. study at state institutions of higher education;
3. Citizen not residing permanently in Georgia drafted for military  
servicecan choose between military and alternative services."
        Article 26--concerning conditions under which a person may  
beexempted from military service--contains the provision "In special  
casesselectees can be exempted from military service by special decree  
signed bypresident of Georgia."
        The mass media reacted strongly to the bill, and the League for  
theProtection of the Constitution published a declaration in  
severalinfluential newspapers stating that Art. 1 contradicts the  
Constitution inthat it denies citizens of the right to an education and to  
hold anadministrative position, by means of introducing discriminatory  
measures.
        As expected, the president vetoed the legislation and returned  
itto the Parliament for re-examination. The president requested the  
removalof Art. 1's sanctions and also refused to accept the provision  
enablingpresident to exempt certain figures from military service because  
it wouldlead to people close to president exercising pressure on him.       
  Parliament apparently will take the president's remarks  
intoconsideration. However, a new problem has arisen since the legislation  
wasnot enacted before spring conscription, which now must be carried out  
underthe old law.

The importance of the bill ON REGISTRATION OF PERSONS WITH RESIDENCE  
INGEORGIA, drafted by the Constitutional, Legal, and Legislative  
Committee,cannot be underestimated since it envisages the establishment of  
genuinefreedom of movement and choice of residence. Until now Georgia  
hadmaintained the Soviet legal procedure that requires citizens be   
registeredat a permanent residence. Even with the ratification of the  
newConstitution (August 24, 1995), the Tbilisi City Council, rather  
thaneliminate the old system, on the contrary made it made it more  
stringent.
        According to current regulations, people are forbidden to reside  
inTbilisi without permission provided by the police. Furthermore, no one  
isallowed to purchase an apartment without the same permission. This  
issuehas received nearly constant attention from the mass media, where it  
wasrepeatedly pointed out how the policy clearly violates the  
Constitution,and the municipality was forced to renounce its decision in  
December 1995.Legal experts believe that a large number of bribery cases  
revolve aroundresidency regulations. The bill would replace the procedure  
of registeredpermanent residence with one of registration according to the  
actual placeof residence:
"Possession of registration or absence of registration should not be  
usedas a basis upon which a citizen could enjoy  his/her constitutional  
rightsand basic freedoms and should not be used as a condition for a  
citizen toenjoy those rights and freedoms" (Art. 2, Part 3).
        The bill contains the following provisions:
        "A person, moving to another permanent place of residence  
isobliged to inform the respective state body of his/her new place  
ofresidence within ten days, and he/she will receive his/her  
registrationwithin one day."  (Art. 5)
        "To receive registration, a person is obliged to present his/ 
herpersonal identification, proof of removal from the register from his/ 
herprevious place of residence, and a written agreement signed by  
theproprietor of the new place of residence." (Art. 6)
        "A person willing to register cannot be refused if he/she  
presentsall documents indicated in Art. 6, and no other law prevents doing  
<a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>."(Art. 7)
        Strong opposition is expected from the police and local  
governingbodies because they would be losing both influence and a source  
of income.
The bill ON PROCEDURES CONNECTED WITH BANKRUPTCY was drafted by  
theMinistry of Justice and delivered to the Economic Policy and  
ReformCommittee and the Constitutional, Legal, and Legislative Committee.  
Duringexamination in the committees both MPs and experts agreed that the  
billgives too much power to the Ministry of Justice, e.g.:- Article 3.2 of  
the bill states that it is in competence of the Ministryof Justice to  
deliver investigations of bankruptcy cases to particularcourts. Bankruptcy  
has previously lay within the courts field ofcompetency.
- Article 12.2 states that the right to initiate an investigation into  
abankruptcy case and rules of compensation for respective expenses  
aregranted to the Ministry of Justice. MPs and experts argued that  
theserights should belong solely to the court that investigates a certain  
case,and, if needed, with the involvement of other court administrations.
- Article 14.a of the bill would regulate the imprisonment of  
debtorsaccording to regulations which the Civil Code does not recognize.  
Moreover,the bill does not envisage terms imprisonment or anything  
connected withimprisonment.
If the bill is passed it would invalidate the decree "On  
IndustrialBankruptcy" (9/8/1992) which has virtually never been put into  
practice.


RULES AND PROCEEDINGS

In April 1996 the Procedural Matters Committee of Parliament presented  
thebill ON THE REGULATION OF THE GEORGIAN PARLIAMENT. After examination  
incommittees MPs criticized it on the basis that it did not provide  
preciseand strict rules on the operation of  Parliament, MPs,  
parliamentaryofficials, committees, factions, temporary commissions, and  
personnel ofParliament, as well as other issues related to procedure.  
There are hardlyany precisely elaborated articles and all require serious  
changes. Thebill, furthermore, would give the excessive competence to the  
ProceduralMatters Committee e.g.:
        Article 27 states that the Procedure Matters Committee  
regulatescontrol over presentation of conclusions made by temporary  
commissions andover the period in which Parliament should observe  
commissions' activity.
        MPs have also complained that the Procedural Matters Committee  
isgranted too wide a range of competence in preparing and presenting bills  
inParliament, especially in the process of circulating bills. The  
Committeeassumes the functions of the parliamentary apparatus and  
exclusivelyexercises the right of advancing a bill from the point of view  
of legalconsiderations. Furthermore, the committee would reduce the  
independence ofthe governing body of the apparatus, by reserving the right  
to present theappointee for chief of the apparatus;
- Article 169.2 of the bill contradicts Art. 47 of Constitution of  
Georgia,since Parliament is forbidden to grant Georgian citizenship to  
foreigncitizens living in Georgia and to offer Georgian citizenship to  
those whodid not possess it.
Given these and other highly criticized provisions, the bill is expected  
tobe rejected and a new variant to be drafted.


Political Parties

Among parliamentary parties the attention is still focused on NDP,  
wherethe split in the party's leadership has widened beyond repair. The  
leaderof the party, Irina Sarishvili-Chanturia, held a special party  
congress andelected a new Central Committee. Previous members of the  
party's CentralCommittee were left out, including: the party parliamentary  
faction leaderMamuka Giorgadze, vice-speaker of Parliament Gia Kobakhidze,  
one of thefounders of the party Vano Khukhunaishvili and others. The  
special congressappointed Sarishvili-Chanturia as the new party  
parliamentary factionleader, and dismissed supporters of Mamuka Giorgadze,  
although they keepparty membership. The special congress violated many of  
the party'sby-laws, and supporters of Giorgadze simultaneously organized a  
meeting oftheir own.
        These events appear to mark  the end of the process of  
developmentof  mature national parties which were promoted and supported  
by alliedinterest groups. In Georgian politics, there no longer remains a  
realpolitically organized force in the form of a political party. On  
thecontrary, former Communist Party and Komsomol (the communist  
youthorganization in the USSR) nomenclature occupy many of the new  
positions ofpower. They recently come out of the shadows after having  
successfullylegalized the ownership of their property and are now  
beginning to recapturepositions of power.

Georgia still lacks an operational Constitutional Court. According to  
theConstitution and laws on the Court, it should have already begun its  
workby April 15. However, up to now only one judge has been appointed and  
thebuilding that should have been occupied by the Court has not  
beenapportioned. Neither the president, nor Parliament, nor the Supreme  
Court,have made their allotted appointments, though the Constitution  
providesthat each of them should appoint three members of the  
Constitutional Court.There are only two working weeks left until the  
Parliaments summer recess,and this makes the situation even more severe.

In political circles, the publication of the final conclusion on  
theNovember 1995 parliamentary and presidential elections made by  
theorganization Fair Elections created a large stir. This NGO, which  
receivesits funding from the National Democratic Institute in the United  
States,employed volunteer observers for spot check monitoring of the  
elections.The final conclusion of Fair Elections states that in many  
pollingdistricts violations of certain rules took place, members of  
localauthorities and police intervened in the election processes  
whichinfluenced results of those elections. This conclusion calls  
specialattention to the conclusion made by international (e.g. OSCE)  
observers whopositively evaluated the elections. Fair Elections claims  
that the positionof international observers was guided rather by political  
considerationsthan by an objective gathering of facts. As expected, the  
government metthis publication with a rebuttal. The president's spokesman  
explainedconclusion of the Fair Elections as result of communist blessing  
andAmerican financing. At the same time, the independent press believes  
thatFair Elections made the most objective conclusion on the elections  
andtheir activity could be regarded as a first serious display of  
civilsociety attempting to exercise some control over state activities.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>12/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-80</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-31</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c13 194.10.201.200 19970108035452 text/html 1949
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:54:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1791
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -

   Manipulation on the North-West Frontier

The Unsko-Sanski canton represents a virtual information desert SO far as  
Federation-based media are concerned.  Radio and television signals  
emanating from neighbouring Croatia and Republika Srpska dominate the  
- - - -
ruling party could surpass its performance in 1990, when it won the  
support of "95 percent of the Serbian nation in the former B&H." TV Srpska  
has yet to broadcast any detailed description of the 18 parties contesting  
the elections in the RS. SO far, the vote is presented as a plebiscite on  
the RS's statehood. This is fully in line with SDS posters which portray  
the SDS as the only party committed to the defence of the RS.
- - - -

Election coverage by the Sarajevo press has expanded both quantitatively  
and qualitatively in the past week.  Not only has the number of articles  
increased, but SO too has the calibre of the journalism.  The three, self- 
styled  independent dailies are continuing to provide space for the  
election campaigns of the opposition parties.  Their doors may not yet be  
- - - -
building, and that everyone must now leave the premises by 9 pm.  Does  
that mean that no one guards TV Tuzla's equipment during the night?  Is  
the problem that TV Tuzla cannot afford to pay a porter?  Or are rumours  
of a party politcal vendetta against TV Tuzla to be credited?  Even SO,  
why can't an election programme go out earlier in the day?-

- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=13">  Article </a><hr>13/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-81</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108035540 text/html 20266
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:54:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 20107
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Bulletin #3, 10-16 June, Bosnian Me
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:31:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

The Institute for War and Peace Reporting, London
and Media Plan, Sarajevo -
monitoring media coverage of the forthcoming electionsin Bosnia and  
Herzegovina.

Monitoring report No.3
The B&H Media Week in Review: 10-16th June 1996

* democracy under attack
* manipulation on the North-West Frontier- the information desert in Bihac
* fear and loathing in Republika Srpska
* thoughts from near abroad -  Croatian and Slovenian tell the tale of Hari

IWPR and Media Plan will continue to produce weekly monitoring reportsover  
the coming months. The initial media survey and reports areavailable on e- 
mail, in WarReport and on IWPR's web site:<a href=http://www.demon.co.uk/iwpr/>http://www.demon.co.uk/iwpr/</a> 
iwpr.htm
If you would like any further information or would like tocontinue  
receiving the weekly report, please contact- preferably with your e-mail  
address -

Jenny Pearce, Project Officer:
IWPR, Lancaster House, 33 Islington High St, London, N1 9LH
+44 171 713 7130, fax 713 7140    warreport@gn.apc.org 

or Mark Wheeler, Project Director, +387 71 471 392
Obala Kulina bana 4/I, 71000 Sarajevo
Tel/fax (+ 387 71)-667-734/735   Fax + 387 71 664 377
 MEDIAPLAN_ZU@ZAMIR-SA.ztn.apc.org 

IWPR is an independent conflict-monitoring and media-support charity working to
 inform the international debate on conflict and provide a platform and
other support
for voices of moderation caught in war. Currently working in the former
Yugoslavia,
the Caucasus and Rwanda, IWPR also publishes WarReport and the  
supplementTribunal monitoring the work of the War Crimes Tribunal in the  
Hague.
We gratefully acknowledge the support of the Swedish International
Development and Cooperation Agency , the Open Society Institute,the  
Friedrich Naumann Stiftung and the Winston Foundation for World Peace
for this project.

i.w.p.r. & Media Plan

Bulletin -- Monitoring Report


19 June 1996  number 3


The B&H Media Week in Review: 10-16 June


   Democracy under Attack

The thugs who attacked Haris Silajdzic in Cazin on 15 June not only drew  
blood from the leader of the Party for B&H, they also provided government- 
aligned broadcasters with an unwelcome opportunity to inflict even more  
serious wounds upon their own reputations for competence and credibility.   
Their reports of the incident were late, confused and partial, indicating  
a failed attempt to manage and minimise the story.

TV B&H reported the assault on Silajdzic in the middle portion of its  
football-delayed "Dnevnik" on Saturday night.  The Party for B&H's press  
release, alleging that Silajdzic's attackers had carried SDA flags and  
pictures of President Izetbegovic, was, however, read in full.  By Sunday  
night, the story had ascended the scale of newsworthiness, and an equally  
late "Dnevnik" was devoted almost entirely to the event.  Coverage began  
with an account by the Federal Ministry of Interior of how the Cazin  
police had done all in their power to protect Silajdzic, defending him  
with their own bodies.  This statement was reinforced by telephoned  
testimony by Edhem Veladzic, minister of police in the Unsko-Sanski  
canton.  According to him, the police had indeed intervened in Cazin; but  
he excused the violence by alleging that "one person in the last row at  
the [Party for B&H's earlier] convention in Bihac had sworn at President  
IzetbegoviC and insulted Islam."  Bihac is 25 km from Cazin.

The pictures of Silajdzic's wounds and damaged car which followed belied  
the insistence by the authorities that he had been fully protected.  While  
the former premier, speaking by telephone from Zagreb, claimed that the  
confrontation had lasted for some four hours, during which time the police  
were nowhere to be seen.  Next came an OSCE statement condemning the  
incident and supporting Silajdzic's version of events.  OSCE observers had  
been present and had witnessed what took place.

Radio B&H's flagship newscast, the 15.00 "Dnevnik", generally avoids  
mention of opposition parties.  On 15 June, however, it gave extensive  
coverage to the joint press conference of the five parties (UBSD, SDP,  
HSS, MBO and RS) seeking belated registration for their combined list to  
fight the Mostar elections.  Yet any notion that this development might  
have augured a new policy of editorial openness towards the opposition was  
scotched the next day.  News of the attack on SilajdziC was omitted from  
the headlines and relegated to fourth place on what was otherwise made to  
seem a thin news day.  Without any on-the-spot report, Radio B&H relied on  
meagre agency despatches, fragmentary extracts from the Party for B&H's  
communique and longer citations from that of the SDA.  "Dnevnik" listeners  
were left to ponder the meaning of President IzetbegoviC's statement,  
broadcast the previous afternoon, that "on the territory controlled by the  
legitimate B&H government there are no problems regarding access to the  
media."

   Manipulation on the North-West Frontier

The Unsko-Sanski canton represents a virtual information desert <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> far as  
Federation-based media are concerned.  Radio and television signals  
emanating from neighbouring Croatia and Republika Srpska dominate the  
airwaves.  Radio BihaC relies upon Radio B&H for its reports of national  
and international events.  When Radio B&H's signal cannot be heard, then  
Radio Bihac omits all but local news from its bulletins. These, however,  
appear designed to support the ruling SDA in the canton.  Our Bihac  
monitor reports as follows on the media week leading up to the  
disturbances in Cazin:


The B&H Army's celebration of "The Days of June Resistance" served to  
publicise a religious leader - the Bihac mufti - who is also one of the  
SDA chieftains in the region.  Radio Bihac's (21.00) "Hronika dana" on 12  
June broadcast a part of his speech at the army gala that day.  His basic  
message was clear: "Those who invented fascism cannot teach us democracy.   
We dare not allow anyone else to teach us democracy.  What they want, when  
they teach us that democracy, is to break us and to finish off what our  
enemies started."  The same army celebrations were used on 15 June to  
promote General Dudakovic's SDA career.

Several times during the week Radio Bihac carried advertisements for the  
founding assembly of the Party for B&H which took place in the town on 15  
June.  That evening, at 21.15, it broadcast a recording of the proceedings  
as a supplement to "Hronika dana".  In introducing the item, the chief  
editor explained, almost apologetically, that, "In compliance with the  
rules on the behaviour of the media in the course of the elections, we are  
broadcasting the convention in its entirety."  This it did, without any  
sort of intervention.

Also on that evening's "Hronika dana", Radio Bihac aired a commentary by  
the journalist A. Danicic regarding the appearance in Cazin and Bihac on  
14 and 15 June of Muslim Youth Alliance (MOS) posters.  These explicitly  
attacked Silajdzic, his party and followers.  The reporter described them  
as "a vulgar attempt to discredit Mr Haris SilajdziC."  Yet Radio BihaC  
provided no news whatsoever about the day's disorders in Cazin.

Its first report of the attack on SilajdziC was broadcast only on 16 June,  
in the 21.00 "Hronika dana", and as the fourth item in the newscast.  It  
began, "According to a statement by the Party for B&H..." - yet proceeded  
to give a short account of the incident which bore no relation to the  
party's communique.  The statement issued by the SDA headquarters in  
Sarajevo regarding the incident was, however, broadcast in full.  There  
followed a report on the "regular meeting of the Cantonal Council of the  
SDA-BihaC, held on Sunday, 16 June, which discussed the formation of  
electoral lists, the release of certain members of the Council from their  
duties and the need to investigate events in Cazin."

Radio Bihac's presentation of the news about the incident in Cazin appears  
to have aimed to marginalise the event and to prepare listeners for the  
manipulative communique from the BihaC Centre of the Security Service  
(CSB) that followed.  This presented the public with unsubstantiated  
allegations which were at odds both with eyewitness reports and this  
monitor's own observations, viz that there had been trouble during the  
Party for B&H's Bihac convention, that insults and obscenities had been  
hurled both at IzetbegoviC and Islam during the meeting, and that  
SilajdziC's followers had provoked the disorders.  In fact, the CSB  
statement itself added to the tension in Bihac and Cazin by identifying  
those who attended the Party for B&H's Bihac meeting as "those who did  
nothing for the defence effort in the course of the war and among whom  
there were a large number of Fikret Abdic's followers."

Radio BihaC's coverage of this local story was totally unprofessional.  It  
failed to report the statements of any party except the SDA.  It made no  
mention of the OSCE communique.  It sought the reactions of no notable  
persons nor even of any local representatives of the Party for B&H.  In  
short, Radio BihaC demonstrated this week that it makes no pretense of  
possessing any independence.

   Cazin in the Independent Media

Sarajevo's NTV Studio 99 devoted the bulk of its 16 June "Oko 22" to the  
attack on SilajdziC.  In contrast to the coverage offered by the state-run  
media, this broadcast served as an exceptional promotional vehicle on  
behalf of the Party for B&H and its leader.  Radio Studio 99, for its  
part, mounted a special edition of "Hyde Park" on Sunday in order to give  
callers an opportunity to discuss the issue.

Although they are unrelated, both NTV Hayat and Bosnian Muslim Radio Hayat  
gave preference on 16 June to the visit by Federation Interior Minister  
Avdo Hebib to Gorazde.  TV Hayat, in particular, sought to play down the  
significance of the violence in Cazin.

   Reports from the Near Abroad

Justifiably intoxicated as they may have been by the Croatian football  
team's 3-0 victory over Denmark on Sunday evening, the journalists of HRT  
managed to provide a full and balanced account of the Cazin affray in  
their late-night edition of "Dnevnik".  This was particularly interesting  
in view of recent assertions by Croatian reporters of their country's  
special relationship with the BihaC region.

Even more interesting, however, was the "Dnevnik" editor's decision to  
append an analytical report from Slovene TV to the end of the programme.   
The Slovene despatch argued that the attack on Silajdzic should not be  
treated as the mere incident the SDA pretended it to be.  Rather, it was  
one of a series of similar cases, including SDA Vice-President Edhem  
Bicakcic's threat that the party would show no mercy to the opposition and  
the beating administered to USBD members in Tesanj.  The report concluded  
that responsibility for the unhappy events in Cazin lay squarely at the  
door of the local authorities and the ruling party to which they belonged.

IN TV (aka Bildt Television) may wish to consider sub-contracting its news  
service to Radio-Television Slovenia.

   Coverage from the Far Abroad

The foreign press showed far more interest on Sunday and Monday in the  
nomination of new ministers to the supposedly non-existent government of  
"the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosna" than it did in events in Cazin.   
Silajdzic's travail was mentioned only in passing.  The B&H media, on the  
other hand, ignored the HDZ's challenge to the Federation almost totally.   
Even Herceg-Bosna's own broadcasters appear to have had little to say  
about the move.  It seems that they, like the Sarajevo-based media, are  
awaiting instructions.

   Fear and Loathing in Republika Srpska

A campaign of sorts is continuing in Republika Srpska, with the state  
media offering blanket coverage of mass rallies called in support of the  
indicted war criminals Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic. The "mitinzi"  
have quickly assumed the flavour of SDS election rallies, with only the  
small, Belgrade-based Serbian National Renewal party (SNO) joining the  
festivities. In its main evening newscast, TV Srpska offered prominent  
coverage of rallies in Nevesinje, Brcko and Bijeljina. The Brcko rally was  
given extended play in the slot immediately following the 13 June news.  
With the exception of the SNO leader, Mirko JoviC, all participating party  
representatives were from the SDS. In addition to unofficial campaign  
propaganda, the rallies appear to be part of a broad SDS effort to link  
the fate of  the RS with that of KaradziC and Mladic. "The trial of  
Karadzic is the trial of the Serbian nation," read one placard displayed  
at the Brcko rally.

Despite initial hostility to the idea of elections, TV and Radio Srpska  
appear to have warmed to the poll in the aftermath of the Florence  
conference. Broadcasts were brimming with optimistic assessments of the  
September vote, with one SDS official predicting it would mark the RS's  
final entry into statehood. Another SDS vice-president suggested the  
ruling party could surpass its performance in 1990, when it won the  
support of "95 percent of the Serbian nation in the former B&H." TV Srpska  
has yet to broadcast any detailed description of the 18 parties contesting  
the elections in the RS. <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>So</a> far, the vote is presented as a plebiscite on  
the RS's statehood. This is fully in line with SDS posters which portray  
the SDS as the only party committed to the defence of the RS.

Elsewhere in the RS, the only apparent exception to a week of programming  
devoted to the SDS and its semi-official partner, the Serbian Radical  
Party,  was aired on Radio Prijedor's 12 June bulletin. In a commentary  
entitled "A prayer for my brother journalists," M. Mutic attacked the  
ruling SDS as a clique of cynical manipulators and corrupt warmongers who  
had a stranglehold on the RS media. Mutic bitterly protested against the  
lack of political freedoms in the RS, in particular free speech.  The RS  
government treats journalists as  "unpaid servants or animals for the  
hunt", said Mutic, adding that the moral and professional dignity of  
journalists throughout the RS was under constant assault.

   The Print Media

Election coverage by the Sarajevo press has expanded both quantitatively  
and qualitatively in the past week.  Not only has the number of articles  
increased, but <a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> too has the calibre of the journalism.  The three, self- 
styled  independent dailies are continuing to provide space for the  
election campaigns of the opposition parties.  Their doors may not yet be  
wide open to the opposition, but they are certainly more than ajar.

The decision of the Florence conference that elections will indeed be held  
in September was reported by the papers as one of the results of the  
conclave, but without expressions of approval or praise.  The press has  
also followed developments in Mostar attentively, including the attempt to  
form a united opposition, the stances of the Croatian parties and the  
policies of EU Administrator Perez Casado.

PRESS ARTICLES RELATING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO THE  1996 ELECTIONS

Period of coverage:

Daily newspapers,  10 - 16 June 1996

Weekly, fortnightly and monthly publications appearing in the same period.

Dailies: Oslobodjenje, Vecernje Novine, Dnevni Avaz

Weeklies, fortnightlies and monthlies: Svijet, Ljiljan, Hrvatska Rijec,  
Slobodna Bosna



**************************************************************************
title         issues    number      number of articles   most common
                     of articles       per issue         formats
dailies
Oslobodjenje     7           48            2 - 11      articles reports and
                                                       brief news items
Vecernje novine  6           36            1 - 11      articles reports and
                                                       brief news items
Dnevni Avaz      6           38            3 - 15      reports
weeklies, fortnightlies and monthlies
Svijet           1            2                    commentaries
Ljiljan          1            5                    opinion poll, interview,
Slobodna Bosna   1            4                    commentaries
Hrvatska rijec   1            4                    brief news items         
                                                   commentaries
****************************************************************************
**********************************

Media Briefs

RTV Mostar & Radio Herceg-Bosna

East Mostar's radio and television stations (which broadcast virtually  
identical news programmes) began last week to engage actively on the  
forthcoming local elections.  TV Mostar is now carrying voter education  
items provided by OSCE and USAID before and after its evening news  
broadcasts. But lodged among these public service announcements there is  
one spot exhorting viewers to "Vote for the united Mostar list!" This, of  
course, is a party political advertisement pretending to be something  
else.  Given the omnipresence of Mayor Safet Orucevic on TV Mostar's  
newscasts, however, the offence may be considered a trifling one.

Radio Herceg-Bosna, for its part, continues to report every manifestation  
of HDZ activity and to ignore all other parties.  The attack on Haris  
Silajdzic offered it, however, a temptation it could not resist to  
disparage the concept of a common Bosnian statehood.  According to the  
21.00 news on 16 June, "The first settling of accounts has begun, and not  
just politically, but physically... Just think, they attacked the Party  
for B&H... when their mouths are full of their constant protestations  
about how they are for B&H and that is why they have fought and  
struggled."

TV B&H

The hour-long programme "B&H Elections" is, it seems, still being  
boycotted by the larger opposition parties.  Only the small Civil  
Democratic Party (GDS) took up the offer of a four-minute slot in last  
week's broadcast (10 June).  The rest of the programme was composed of  
reports about party press conferences and public statements.  The  
programme is even-handed and professionally produced.

TV Tuzla

Why has TV Tuzla recently abandoned its evening broadcasts, and why does  
that mean that it cannot offer any election programming?  Is it because of  
unpaid rent and utility bills to the owner of its premises, the  
Osiguravajuci zavod (Insurance Bureau), or is there some other reason?  TV  
Tuzla's explanation is that its landlord has cut night porterage in the  
building, and that everyone must now leave the premises by 9 pm.  Does  
that mean that no one guards TV Tuzla's equipment during the night?  Is  
the problem that TV Tuzla cannot afford to pay a porter?  Or are rumours  
of a party politcal vendetta against TV Tuzla to be credited?  Even <a name=L10004></a><a href=#L10005>so</a>,  
why can't an election programme go out earlier in the day?-

Issued by I.W.P.R. and MEDIA PLAN,
Obala Kulina bana 4/I, 71000 Sarajevo, B&H

Tel/fax 071-667-735/736 and 663-478

E-mail: MEDIAPLAN_ZU@ZAMIR-SA.ztn.apc.org



INSTITUTE FOR WAR & PEACE REPORTING  warreport@gn.apc.org 


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>13/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-82</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-125</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c14 194.10.201.200 19970108035621 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:55:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=14">  Article </a><hr>14/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-83</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-168</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108035708 text/html 2682
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:56:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2524
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/30633] Antigua And Barbuda Tro
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:32:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0186

 ------------------------




                      CARIBBEAN TROPICAL STORM BERTHA
                    DHA-GENEVA INFORMATION REPORT NO.1
                               07 JULY 1996




  THIS  MESSAGE  IS  NOT  AN  OFFICIAL  HURRICANE  WARNING OR ALERT FOR ANY
COUNTRY


  1.      THE US NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE REPORTS THAT AS OF 0300 UTC
  HURRICANE WARNING IS IN EFFECT FOR MOST OF THE LEEWARD ISLANDS FROM
  DOMINICA  NORTHWARD  TO ANGUILLA AND ST. MAARTEN. A HURRICANE WATCH
  REMAINS  IN  EFFECT  FOR  THE  BRITISH  AND U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS AND
  GUADELOUPE NORTHWARD. THESE WATCHES MAY BE UPGRADED LATER TODAY.

  2.      THE  US  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE INDICATES THAT AS OF 0900
  UTC  THE  CENTER  OF TROPICAL BERTHA WAS LOCATED NEAR LATITUDE 16.0
  NORTH,  LONGITUDE 55.0 WEST ABOUT 670 KM EAST OF GUADELOUPE. BERTHA
  IS  MOVING  TOWARD  THE  WEST-NORTHWEST  21 MPH/ 33 KM/HR, AND THIS
  GENERAL  MOTION  IS  EXPECTED  TO  CONTINUE  FOR THE NEXT 24 HOURS.
  MAXIMUM  SUSTAINED  WINDS  ARE NEAR 70 MPH/ APPROXIMATELY 110 KM/HR
  BERTHA MAY BECOME A HURRICANE LATER TODAY.

  3.      THE  UNDP/DHA  RESIDENT  REPRESENTATIVE IN BARBADOS REPORTS
  THAT,  ACCORDING  TO   THE  CARIBBEAN  DISASTER  EMERGENCY RESPONSE
  AGENCY   (CDERA)  THE  REGIONAL  RESPONSE MECHANISM HAS BEEN PUT IN
  HIGH  ALERT  AND  ALL  AGENCIES AND THREATENED STATES WERE URGED TO
  INTENSIFY  INCREASED  READINESS  ACTIONS.  A DONOR MEETING HAS BEEN
  SCHEDULED FOR LATER TODAY (4:00 PM LOCAL TIME).

  TELEPHONE O: +41-22-917.12.34
  IN CASE OF EMERGENCY ONLY: +41-22-917.20.10
  DUTY OFFICER: MR. C. PEREIRA, DIRECT TEL. +41-22-917.13.83
  PRESS   TO   CONTACT:   MS.   M.   MOULIN-ACEVEDO,   DIRECT   TEL.:
  +41-22-917.28.56
  TELEX: 414242 DHA CH
  FAX: +41-22-917.00.23
  EMAIL: DHAGVA AT DHA.UNICC.ORG






                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>14/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-84</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-217</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c15 194.10.201.200 19970108035750 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:57:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=15">  Article </a><hr>15/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-85</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-265</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108035832 text/html 7236
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:57:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7078
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: RLC Response: Sierra Leone
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:32:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

From: Refugee Legal Centre  tonyfletch@gn.apc.org 
Response to Information Request                     No: SL12

Date: 20th June 1996

Subject: Sierra Leone - information about the treatment of
members or leaders of the National League for Human Rights and
Democracy, a list of the current government and a brief summary
of the current situation in Sierra Leone.
------------------------------------------------------------

     Recent Country Reports from the US State Department make the
following comments: "the League for Human Rights and Democracy,
...., its effectiveness is hampered by government intimidation and
a lack of resources. In at least one instance in 1993, the
League's director was summoned by police for questioning
regarding his activities" (1993, p 256); "the Government
permitted the sole local human group, the League for Human Rights
and Democracy to exist, but hampered its effectiveness by
intimidation" (1994, p 225); "the Government allows one local
human rights group, the League for Human Rights and Democracy to
exist" (1995, p 9).

     There are a number of references elsewhere to individuals
connected with the National League for Human Rights and
Democracy: a Sulaiman Banja Tejan-Sie, an executive member who
joined the military government as Secretary of State for Youth,
Sport and Social Mobilization in April 1995 (Inter Press Service,
7th April 1995); a Sallieu Kamara, secretary general in January
1995 (Inter Press Service, 9th January 1995); and Allieu Kanu,
chairman in November 1994 (Inter Press Service, 15th November
1994).

     Most information is available about Paul Kamara, also
reported to be chairman of the National League for Human Rights
and Democracy and editor of a newspaper critical of the
government called "For Di People". In August 1992, Inter Press
Service reported that Kamara "played a key role in justifying the
military takeover" [of April 1992] but another report from the
same source, in March 1993, noted that Kamara "has been jailed
several times by the Sierra Leone military junta" and New
African, May 1996, quotes Kamara as saying that he had refused
an offer to work with the military following April 1992. Kamara's
criticism of the military government is reported in Inter Press
Service 20th February 1993 and 4th February 1994.
     In September 1995, Kamara was briefly detained, "not for the
first time", after his paper criticised the military government
(Inter Press Service, 22nd January 1996 and Country Reports for
1995, p 7). In January 1996, following Bio's ousting of Strasser,
Kamara accepted a post as Minister in the military government
(Inter Press Service, 22nd January 1996 and New African May
1996). On February 26th, Kamara was the victim of an alleged
assassination attempt, which he attributes to government elite
troops, and is currently convalescing in the UK (New African, May
1996, which also suggests that the assassination attempt might
be explained by Kamara's upsetting people while in government
office).

     A list of the new cabinet appointed by President Kabbah in
April 1996 is attached (from Africa Research Bulletin, 23rd May
1996, p 12226) and this notes that Abdul Rahman Kamara is the newMinister  
for Lands, Housing Town and Country Planning.

     Sierra Leone returned to civilian rule in March 1996 when
Brigadier Bio handed over power to President Kabbah of the SLPP.
President Kabbah has continued Bio's peace negotiations with the
leader of the rebel RUF, Foday Sankoh, and it has been suggested
that 26 out of 28 provisions for a Peace Accord have been agreed,
with one of the disputed issues being the RUF demand for the
withdrawal of the government-paid mercenaries of Executive
Outcomes from Sierra Leone (West Africa, 17th-23rd June 1996).
In contrast to reports of peace talks and the ceasefire agreedin March  
1996, there are a number of reports of continuing rebel
attacks. For example, in June 1996 concern was expressed over
"the rising incidence of atrocities by rebels" (West Africa, 10-16 June 1996) and the government accused the RUF of "nationwide
violations of a ceasefire agreement" (Agence France Presse, 7th
June 1996). Aid agencies are said to have reported a "wave of
terror attacks in the countryside" (Reuters World Service, 6th
June 1996). A cautionary note has also been raised by The
Economist Intelligence Unit, in "Sierra Leone: Dim Prospects for
Civilian Rule", 22nd May 1996: "although the most recent RUF
ceasefire gives more cause for optimism than for several years,
such conflicts have in the past displayed a grisly logic that (as
in neighbouring Liberia) can resist virtually any move towards
peace" .

Attached -

Africa Reseach Bulletin, 23rd May 1996, p 12226

Agence France Presse, "Rebels Accused of Countrywide Ceasefire
Violations", 7th June 1996 (NEXIS)

B Ankomah, "Sierra Leone: The shooting of the Minister", New
African, May 1996

Economist Intelligence Unit, "Sierra Leone: Dim Prospects for
Civilian Rule", EIU ViewsWire, 22nd May 1996 (NEXIS)

L Fofana, "Sierra Leone: Rights Lawyer Rapped for Taking
Political Job", Inter Press Service, 7th April 1995 (NEXIS)

L Fofana, "Sierra Leone-Human Rights: Army Crackdown Raises New
Fears", Inter Press Service, 9th January 1995 (NEXIS)

L Fofana and R Mac-Johnson, "Sierra Leone-Children: Recruited as
Buffalo Soldiers", Inter Press Service, 4th February 1994 (NEXIS)

L Fofana, "Sierra Leone: Independent Press Under Pressure from
Government", Inter Press Service, 20th February 1993 (NEXIS)

L Fofana, "Sierra Leone: Clamp Down on the Press",  Inter Press
Service, 19th August 1992 (NEXIS)

L Gberie, "Sierra Leone-Politics: Democracy Champion Joins
Military Junta", Inter Press Service, 22nd January 1996 (NEXIS)

B Mantiri, "Human Rights: African Journalist Says UNESCO is
Lethargic", Inter Press Service, 9th March 1993 (NEXIS)

C McElroy, "Terror Campaign defies Sierra Leone ceasefire",
Reuters World Service, 6th June 1996 (NEXIS)

J Samboma, "Sierra Leone: Ruling Junta Accused of Prolonging
Civil War", Inter Press Service, 15th November 19994 (NEXIS)

US Department of State, Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
for 1995, March 1996, (electronic version)

US Department of State, Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
for 1994, p 225

US Department of State, Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
for 1993, p 256

West Africa, "Sierra Leone. Nearly There", 17-23 June 1996

West Africa, "RUF  atrocities'", 10-16 June 1996

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>15/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-86</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-318</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c16 194.10.201.200 19970108035913 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:58:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=16">  Article </a><hr>16/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-87</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B025-371</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108035955 text/html 4456
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:59:16 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4298
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: RLC Circular -Forwarded
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:32:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

                      RLC LIBRARY CIRCULAR
                 12th - 20th June 1996 (No. 98)
GENERAL

Amnesty International, Report 1996

IAN (Immigration Adjudicators Newsletter) Vol 1 April 1996;
International Journal of Refugee Law, October 1995; ECRE,
Position Paper on the Detention of Asylum-Seekers, June 1996;
Committee on Civil Liberties, European Parliament, Draft Report
on the Council Resolution on Minimum Guarantees for Asylum
Procedures, 30th April 1996

ANGOLA

"There is uncertainty everywhere, especially around the peace
process", Africa Confidential,7th June 1996; problems over
demobilisation "threatening to destabilise further this tense and
divided country" (P)

BANGLADESH

Amnesty International, Bangladesh. Beating & arbitrary detention
of religious minority students, May 1996 (C); Human Rights
Watch/Asia, "Bangladesh: Political Violence on All Sides", Press
Release, 11th June 1996

BOSNIA

Amnesty International, "Bosnia and Herzegovina: Amnesty
International Delegation Finds Country Not Safe to Return and
Implemementation of Dayton Agreement Human Rights Provisions
Faltering", News Service, 12th June 1996; ECRE, Position on
Refugees from the Former Yugoslavia, Update April 1996;
Humanitarian Issues Working Group, Update on Implementation of
the Plan for Durable Solutions, 13th May 1996 (C); "A climate of
fear and ruthless, clashing nationalism is jeopardising the
chances of staging free and fair elections" according to OSCE
(P); Human Rights Watch, "HRW Applauds OSCE Efforts to Resist US
Pressure for Elections" and "Bosnia-UN Rep Carl Bildt Engaging in
Wishful Thinking", Press Releases, 19th June 1996

BULGARIA

Amnesty International, Bulgaria. Shootings, deaths in custody,
torture & ill-treatment, June 1996 (C)

COLOMBIA

Amnesty International, "Colombia: Amnesty International Calls on
the Colombian Government to Take Urgent Measures", News Service,
10th June 1996

CTE d'IVOIRE

Amnesty International, Cte d'Ivoire. Government Opponents are
the Target of Systematic Repression, 28th May 1996 (C)

GHANA

Ghana Human Rights Committee, "President Rawlings Orders His
Troops to Beat Up Booing Students of University of Ghana", Press
Release, 18th June 1996

IRAN

Amnesty International, Urgent Action, 10th June 1996, re death
sentence for opposition activist; FCO letter re exit procedures
at Tehran airport and centralised information system re "wanted
political opponents of the regime", 5th December 1995 (C); RLC
case allowed, heard 26th April 1996, currency dealing considered
"subversive & `anti-revolutionary'"

NIGERIA

Amnesty International, Urgent Action, 13th June 1996 re fear of
ill-treatment of human rights campaigner

ROMANIA

RLC case allowed, heard 22nd March 1996, NLP member

SERBIA (KOSOVO)

RLC case allowed, dated 6th June 1996, ethnic Albanian LDK member
& draft evader; "Kosovo on brink of abyss" (P)

SOMALIA

Mohamed et al, Caught in the Crossfire: The Impact of Armed
Conflict on Children from Minority Groups in Somalia, (draft MRG
report, June 1996)

SUDAN

Amnesty International, Urgent Action, 11th June 1996, re arrests
and fear of torture of trades unionists

TURKEY

RLC case allowed, dated 3rd June 1996, PKK supporter
UGANDA

RLC case allowed, heard 8th May 1996, deserter

UK

M Symes, The Law Relating to "Without Foundation" Asylum
Claims,May 1996; Home Office, Statistical Bulletin,16th May 1996;
M Howard letter to Bishop of Ripon re the Asylum and Immigration
Bill, with response to Glidewell Report, 3rd June 1996; Committee
on Prevention of Torture, Report on Visit to the UK, May 1994,
section on immigration and asylum detention; C Buckley,Safe
Havens. What housing associations can do to assist asylum

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>16/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-88</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-30</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c17 194.10.201.200 19970108040044 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:59:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=17">  Article </a><hr>17/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-89</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-89</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108040130 text/html 2673
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:00:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2515
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/30795] Antigua And Barbuda Hur
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:32:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0189

 ------------------------




                        CARIBBEAN HURRICANE BERTHA
                    DHA-GENEVA INFORMATION REPORT NO.3
                               09 JULY 1996




       THIS MESSAGE IS NOT AN OFFICIAL HURRICANE WARNING OR ALERT FOR ANY
COUNTRY.



    1. CARIBBEAN DISASTER EMERGENCY RESPONSE AGENCY HAS PROVIDED A
  SUMMARY OF DAMAGE.

    - ANTIGUA BARBUDA:  GENERALLY DAMAGE IS LOW. SOME TEN HOUSES
  DAMAGED. TWO MAIN           RADIO STATIONS STILL OFF AIR.
  ELECTRICITY RESTORED. AIRPORT REOPENED.

    - ANGUILLA: NO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE.

    - BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS: DAMAGE ASSESSMENT STILL OUTSTANDING.

    - DOMINICA: NO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE.

    - ST. KITTS AND NEVIS: NO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE.

    2. U.S. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE REPORTS HURRICANE WARNING IN
  EFFECT FOR TURKS            AND CAICOS ISLANDS, SOUTHEASTERN AND
  CENTRAL BAHAMAS AND DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM     CABO CAUCEDO ON
  SOUTH COAST TO MONTE CRISTI ON NORTH COAST. TROPICAL STORM
  WARNING AND HURRICANE WATCH IN EFFECT FOR NORTH COAST OF HAITI FROM
  ST NICOLAS       EASTWARD TO BORDER OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

    3. U.S. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE INDICATED THAT AS OF 0900 UTC ON
  9 JULY CENTRE    OF HURRICANE BERTHA WAS LOCATED NEAR LATITUDE 20.7
  NORTH, LONGITUDE 68.4 WEST            (ABOUT 180 MILES/295 KM EAST
  SOUTHEAST OF TURKS ISLANDS. MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS       ARE NEAR
  115 MILES PER HOUR (185 KM PER HOUR).


  TELEPHONE NO: +41-22-917.12.34
  IN CASE OF EMERGENCY ONLY: +41-22-917.20.10
  DESK OFFICER: MR. E. HAEGGLUND TEL +41 22 917 32.99/MR. C. PEREIRA,
  DIRECT TEL. +41-22-917.13.83
  PRESS   TO   CONTACT:   MS.   M.   MOULIN-ACEVEDO,   DIRECT   TEL.:
  +41-22-917.28.56
  TELEX: 414242 DHA CH
  FAX: +41-22-917.00.23
  EMAIL: DHAGVA AT DHA.UNICC.ORG






                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>17/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-90</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-137</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c18 194.10.201.200 19970108040208 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:01:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=18">  Article </a><hr>18/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-91</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-187</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108040256 text/html 8266
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:02:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8108
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/29701] Yemen Heavy Rain  - 1 o
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:33:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0179A

 ------------------------




                               YEMEN - FLOODS
                      DHA-GENEVA SITUATION REPORT NO.4
                                24 JUNE 1996







    =================================
    PART 1 of 2 PARTS
    =================================
    GENERAL SITUATION

    1. THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED UPDATED INFORMATION ON THE IMPACT OF
    THE DISASTER IN FIVE AFFECTED GOVERNORATES AS FOLLOWS:

  GOVERNO-    DEATH    MISSING   AFFECTED   HOUSING    ROADS/
  RATES       TOLL               POPULATION DESTR./    BRIDGES
                                            DAMAGED    DESTR. OR
                                                       DAMAGED

  MARIB       30        100      18,000     250  /  350     60 KM /
  11 BR.
  SHABWA      100       250      20,000     150  / 1,150    300 KM /
  8 BR.
  HADRAMAWT   12                             50 / 70   180 KM / 3 BR.
  AL MAHRA                                   45 / 470
  AL JAWF     4                              129 / 40  60 KM / 2 BR.
  OTHER       21                             296
  TOTAL       167        350     38,000      3,000     600 KM / 24
  BR.

  IN ADDITION, 5,500 LIVESTOCK WERE KILLED AND 30 GENERATORS, 250
  WATERPUMPS, 8 HEALTH CENTRES AND 8 SCHOOLS WERE DESTROYED OR
  DAMAGED.

    2.  THE UN/DHA RESIDENT COORDINATOR, THE UN ASSESSMENT MISSIONS
    AND THE UNDAC TEAM REPORTED ON THEIR ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF
    THE FLOODS IN THE GOVERNORATES OF MAREB, SHABWA AND AL JAWF.

    MAREB GOVERNORATE

    3. MAREB GOVERNORATE HAS 11 DISTRICTS WITH A TOTAL POPULATION OF
    183,000. THE FLASH FLOOD HIT THE POPULATION IN WADIS (20 - 35 KM
    LONG) IN 6 DISTRICTS. THE UN ASSESSMENT TEAM REPORTS THAT THE
    IMPACT WAS INCREASED BY THE FACT THAT LOCAL FARMERS HAVE
    CONSTRUCTED THEIR HOUSES IN THE WADI-BED AND HAD STARTED USING
    WADI-BEDS AS AGRICULTURAL LAND.

    4.  ALL HOUSES LOCATED ON THE SIDES OF THE WADI WERE SEVERELY
    DAMAGED, SOME WASHED AWAY. THE MAJORITY OF HOMELESS PEOPLE ARE
    LIVING WITH THEIR CLANSMEN. IN SOME CASES, THEY ARE TEMPORARILY
    RESIDING IN MAKESHIFT CAMPS. SOME CASES OF MALARIA, TYPHOID AND
    DIARRHOEA WERE REPORTED. AREA SERVICED ONLY BY HEALTH STATIONS
    WITHOUT MEDICAL DRUGS OR MODERN EQUIPMENT. WATER SUPPLY HAS BEEN
    DISRUPTED.

    5. SEVERE DAMAGE TO ELECTRICITY NETWORK: 113 ELECTRIC POLES
    WASHED AWAY, 2,300 M OF ELECTRIC WIRE DESTROYED, 4 MAIN
    GENERATORS (20 - 40 KW) DAMAGED. 2 HEALTH CENTRES AND 8 SCHOOLS
    WERE ALSO DAMAGED.

    6. AGRICULTURAL LAND AND STANDING CROPS  WERE WASHED AWAY,
    INCLUDING MODERN AGRICULTURAL FARMS WHICH WERE CONSTRUCTED IN THE
    FRAMEWORK OF A WORLD BANK PROJECT.  IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE,
    CONSISTING OF CANALS, PIPES, WELLS AND PUMPS, WAS DAMAGED OR
    COMPLETELY WASHED AWAY.

  SHABWA GOVERNORATE

  7. SHABWA GOVERNORATE HAS 5 DISTRICTS WITH A TOTAL POPULATION OF
  375,000. AFFECTED DISTRICTS ARE MEIFAH, AS SAID, NISSAB AND BEIHAN,
  THREE OF WHICH WERE VISITED BY THE UN ASSESSMENT TEAM.

  8. HOMELESS FAMILIES ARE BEING SUPPORTED BY RELATIVES OR FRIENDS,
  BUT MANY OF THEM ARE STILL LIVING IN THE OPEN. CASES OF DISARRHOEAL
  DISEASES WERE REPORTED AND THERE IS A RISK OF FURTHER CASES IF SAFE
  WATER SUPPLY IS NOT RESTORED. AN INCREASE IN MALARIA IS ALSO
  EXPECTED. THERE IS NO IMMEDIATE RISK OF STARVATION, ALTHOUGH FOOD
  STOCKS ARE RUNNING LOW. FOOD PROVIDED BY WFP IS EXPECTED TO REACH
  ATAQ - THE CAPITAL OF SHABWA PROVINCE - WITHIN A DAY OR TWO. FOOD
  IS TARGETED TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO ABOUT 1,150 FAMILIES MADE HOMELESS
  BY THE FLOODS.

  9. IN MANY VILLAGES, WATER SYSTEMS HAVE BEEN DESTROYED OR DAMAGED,
  LEAVING THE POPULATION WITHOUT ACCESS TO POTABLE WATER. THE
  GOVERNMENT ESTIMATES THAT 80 % OF THE PUBLIC WATER NETWORK,
  DRINKING WATER WELLS AND PRIVATE WELLS WERE DESTROYED.    IN SOME
  AREAS, THE POPULATION IS RELYING ON OPEN WATER FROM THE WADI
  CONTAMINATED WITH RAW SEWERAGE. ACCESS TO WATER COULD BE MADE
  AVAILABLE THROUGH PROVIDING PUMPS AND/OR GENERATORS TO DRAW WATER
  FROM OPEN WELLS.  WATER FOR THE TOWN OF ATAQ IS BEING TRUCKED IN,
  AS ALL WELLS SUPPLYING DOMESTIC WATER HAVE BEEN SEVERELY DAMAGED.

  10. A NUMBER OF ELECTRICAL POLES AND WIRES COLLAPSED IN THE WADIS.
  TWO MAJOR ELECTRICAL GENERATORS WERE DESTROYED. ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
  TO RURAL AREAS IN THE AFFECTED DISTRICTS HAS BEEN CUT OFF. THE
  PRIMARY ROAD NETWORK REMAINS BY AND LARGE INTACT. HOWEVER, SEVERAL
  WADI CROSSINGS HAVE DISAPPEARED COMPLETELY. DAMAGE TO RURAL ROADS
  VARIES DEPENDING ON THE LOCATION, BUT ACCESS TO MOST AREAS IS NOW
  POSSIBLE.

  11. LARGE AREAS ALONG THE WADI (70 PER CENT OF PRODUCTIVE
  AGRICULTURAL LAND) WERE WASHED AWAY, INCLUDING MOST OF THE FRUIT
  GARDENS AND SOME CROP LANDS. LOCAL IRRIGATION DITCHES AND INLET
  STRUCTURES HAVE DISAPPEARED.

  AL JAWF GOVERNORATE

  12. ON 21 JUNE, THE UNDAC TEAM , TOGETHER WITH A GOVERNMENT
  DELEGATION  AND THE UN/DHA RESIDENT COORDINATOR, CONDUCTED AN
  ASSESSMENT BY HELICOPTER IN AL JAWF GOVERNORATE, WHERE THEY WERE
  RECEIVED AND ACCOMPANIED BY THE GOVERNOR. THE TEAM REPORTS THAT AL
  JAWF IS LESS SERIOUSLY AFFECTED THAN MAREB AND SHABWA.  FLOOD WATER
  HAS RECEDED, LEAVING SMALL SHALLOW STAGNANT POOLS. KEY BRIDGES ON
  THE (PAVED) MAIN ROAD FROM SANA'A TO AL JAWF HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
  ONLY 4 WD VEHICLES CAN PASS AND DELIVERY OF GOODS WITH HEAVY TRUCKS
  (OVER 10 MT) IS NOT POSSIBLE AT PRESENT. MANY WELLS ARE FULL OF
  DEBRIS AND REQUIRE CLEANING. STANDING CROPS HAVE BEEN DESTROYED,
  BUT NO  ESTIMATION OF DAMAGE IS PRESENTLY POSSIBLE.

  13. LOCAL AUTHORITIES HAVE PROVIDED FOOD FOR THE FIRST FEW DAYS.
  WATER SUPPLIES ARE BEING TRUCKED FROM NEARBY SOURCES. URGENT RELIEF
  NEEDS HAVE BEEN MET AND THE SITUATION IN AL JAWF IS NO LONGER
  CONSIDERED A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.

    INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE

    14. A DONOR MEETING WAS CONVENED ON SUNDAY 23 JUNE, CHAIRED BY
    THE UN RESIDENT COORDINATOR, AND ATTENDED BY EMBASSIES, UN
    AGENCIES AND NGOS. PARTICIPANTS WERE BRIEFED ON THE OVERALL
    SITUATION IN THE SIX AFFECTED GOVERNORATES AND EXCHANGED
    INFORMATION ON ASSISTANCE NEEDS,  PLEDGES AND  CONTRIBUTIONS. THE
    UN DISASTER MANAGEMENT TEAM (UN-DMT) MET SUBSEQUENTLY AND AGREED
    ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES AMONG UN AGENCIES.

    15. EFFECTIVE COORDINATION AND DELIVERY OF RELIEF SUPPLIES WILL
    BE ENSURED BY THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ON-SITE OPERATIONS
    COORDINATION CENTRE (OSOCC) WITHIN UNDP SANA'A. THE OSOCC WILL BE
    STAFFED BY THE UNDAC TEAM, REPRESENTATIVES FROM UN AGENCIES AND
    GOVERNMENT COUNTERPARTS AND WILL FULFILL THE FOLLOWING MAIN
    TASKS:
    -    MAINTAIN AND UPDATE RELIEF AND REPAIR REQUIREMENTS
    -    ACT AS A CENTRAL CLEARING HOUSE FOR DELIVERY OF RELIEF ITEMS
    -    UPDATE SITUATION REPORTS AND REPORT ON PROGRESS
    -    SUPERVISE IMPLEMENTATION OF RELIEF ASSISTANCE AND REPAIR
    SERVICES.

    REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE

    16. THE GOVERNMENT IS ENSURING TRANSPORT OF RELIEF ITEMS.
    DRILLING EQUIPMENT FOR WELLS IS AVAILABLE. BUILDING MATERIAL FOR
    DAMAGED AND COLLAPSED HOUSES IS EITHER LOCALLY AVAILABLE OF WILL
    BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT.
    ======================================
    END  OF  PART  1  of  2  PARTS  -  MESSAGE  CONTINUES IN SEPARATE
    TRANSMISSION
    ======================================





                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>18/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-92</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-252</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c19 194.10.201.200 19970108040335 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:03:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=19">  Article </a><hr>19/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-93</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B026-310</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108040424 text/html 3881
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:03:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3723
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: HRW: Macedonia--Human Rights Violat
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:33:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: HRW: Macedonia--Human Rights Violations Persist

FOR RELEASE JUNE 26, 1996 00:01 GMT

The Macedonian government is responsible for significant human rights
violations since independence from Yugoslavia was achieved in 1991, according
to Human Rights Watch/Helsinki.  In A Threat to Stability: Human Rights
Violations in Macedonia, released today, the organization finds that Macedonia
has made some important progress in the last five years towards establishing a
democratic system based on the rule of law.  However, many serious problems
remain.  While political and economic pressures in the southern Balkans are in
part to blame, the current Macedonian government is also responsible for
"violating the rights of its citizens."

Of particular concern is the status of Macedonia's many national minorities,
especially the sizable Albanian population.  Despite some improvements, ethnic
Albanians still suffer discrimination in state employment and
minority-language education.

But minority groups are not the only victims.  Limitations on the press,
violations of due process and harassment of the political opposition affect
all Macedonian citizens regardless of their ethnicity.

On the positive side, Macedonia has avoided the war in the former  
Yugoslavia.Human Rights Watch/Helsinki highlights the "calming effect" of  
the United
Nations force, which includes 500 Americans, and the mission of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.  The report also,
however, criticizes both international organizations for downplaying human
rights violations in the country, claiming that "only gentle criticism is
directed against a friendly government that is seen as a stabilizing  
force."While stability is a worthy goal, Human Rights Watch/Helsinki  
insists that it
is only possible when there is full respect for human rights.Copies of A  
Threat to Stability: Human Rights Violations in Macedonia," are
available from the Publications Department, Human Rights Watch, 485 Fifth
Avenue, New York, NY 10017-6104, $12.00 (domestic), $15.00  
(international).Visa and MasterCard accepted.

Human Rights Watch/Helsinki
Human Rights Watch is a nongovernmental organization established in 1978 to
monitor and promote the observance of internationally recognized human rights
in Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and among the signatories of
the Helsinki accords. Kenneth Roth is the executive director and  Robert L.
Bernstein is the chair of the board.  Its Helsinki division was established in
1978.  Holly Cartner is the executive director.  Jonathan Fanton is the chair
of the advisory committee and Alice Henkin is vice chair.

Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000

Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>19/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-94</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B027-45</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c20 194.10.201.200 19970108040503 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:04:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=20">  Article </a><hr>20/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-95</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B027-101</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108040545 text/html 2942
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:05:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2784
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Advance notice - Special Issue of J
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:33:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Advance notice of future issue which will be available from September  
1996.

Journal of Refugee Studies

VOLUME 9 NUMBER 3

SPECIAL ISSUE

The Rwandan Emergency: Causes, Responses, Solutions?

Editorial Introduction	
RACHEL VAN DER MEEREN

Articles

The Evasion of State Responsibility and the Lessons from Rwanda: the
Need for a New Concept of Collective Security	OTTO HIERONYMI

Rwanda: Genocide and Beyond
FILIP REYNTJENS	

Three Decades in Exile: Rwandan Refugees 1960 - 1990
RACHEL VAN DER MEEREN	

Humanitarian Aid and Health Services in Eastern Kivu, Zaire:
Collaboration or Competition?
PHILIPPE GOYENS, DENIS PORIGNON, ETIENNE MUGISHOSORON'GANE, RENE TONGLET,  
PHILIPPE HENNART and HENRI
LOUIS VIS

The Voluntary Agency Response and the Challenge of Coordination
RUDY VON BERNUTH	

The Tanzanian Government's Response to the Rwandan Emergency
BONAVENTURE RUTINWA	

The Regional Response to the Rwandan Emergency
ODHIAMBO ANACLETI	

Beyond Durable Solutions: An Appraisal of the New Proposals for
Prevention and Solution of Refugee Crises in the Great Lakes Region	
BONAVENTURE RUTINWA

Review Articles

Rwandan Refugees and Environmental Strategy in the Great Lakes
Region. A Report on the Habitat / UNEP Plan of ActionJINMI ADISA	

The International Response to Conflict and Genocide: Lessons from
the Rwanda Experience. Report of the Joint Evaluation of Emergency
Assistance to Rwanda
ANNE MACKINTOSH

Abstracts to Articles	


Subscription Details Orders for subscriptions may be palced by
telephone or fax using any major credit card. Please call

Journals Customer Services
UK TEL: (01865) 267907
UK FAX: (01865) 267485
UK Email: jnlorders@oup.co.uk

USA only: 1 800 852 7323
USA TEL: +1 919 677 0977
USA FAX: +1 919 677 1714

Regards

Refugee Studies Programme
Oxford

Dr Barbara E. Harrell-Bond
Director
Refugee Studies Programme
University of Oxford


-> This document is distributed via the UN Department-> of Humanitarian  
Affairs Integrated Regional Information
-> Network. Tel: +254 2 444338; e-mail: irin@dha.unon.org
-> The material contained in this communication may not be taken
-> to reflect the views of the United Nations or its agencies.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>20/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-96</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B027-152</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c21 194.10.201.200 19970108040631 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:05:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=21">  Article </a><hr>21/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-97</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B027-204</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108040715 text/html 2726
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:06:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2568
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Publication of RSP Occasional Paper
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:33:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

NEW PUBLICATION

The following new publication is now available from the
Refugee Studies Programme:-
_______________________________________________
Rwanda

Unprecedented problems call for unprecedented solutions

by

Dr Rachel Yeld
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The cost of the publication is UK St. stlg10.00 per book: please add  
postage andpacking of UKSt. stlg1.25 per book; overseas UK St. stlg4.00  
per book.

Payment is required in advance, in UK Sterling only.

Cheques must be drawn on a UK Bank Account, all bank charges prepaid,and  
made payable to University of Oxford/RSP.

Please send your order and remittance to:

Accounts
Refugee Studies Programme
Queen Elizabeth House
21 St Giles
Oxford
OX1  3LA
United Kingdom

You may also be interested in the following publication:-

An Analysis of Domestic Legislation to Regulate the Activities ofLocal and  
Foreign NGOs in Croatia, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda
by

Edward A Adiin Yaansah

at a cost of UK St. stlg5.00 per copy: please add postage and packing ofUK  
St stlg1.00 per book; overseas UK St stlg2.00 per book

This book begins a discussion of great significance to the future
development of governments of the South and the new 'transition'
states of Europe. Many of these states are dependent on
international aid which is increasingly channeled through
non-governmental organisations (NGOs). This book examines
legislation introduced by four governments to regulate the
activities of NGOs operating within their territories - both foreign
and national. Identifying themselves as the voice of 'civil
society', in many countries, foreign and national NGOs have been
able to attract funding, which, in some cases,  means their combined
budgets are greater than those of the governments. As such, NGOs
have become a force to be reckoned with. This book makes a starting
point for real dialogue about relationships between government and
NGOs.

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>21/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-98</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B027-263</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c22 194.10.201.200 19970108040755 text/html 734
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:07:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 577
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
in their country of origin, were given
resettlement places in Western countries.
The screened-out, who could safely return
to their country, were expected to do SO.
	UNHCR agreed to set up extensive
assistance programs for returnees in the
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=22">  Article </a><hr>22/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-99</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-21</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108040843 text/html 4857
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:07:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4699
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Press Release: UNHCR AND MALAYSIA C
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:34:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

										June 25, 1996.

UNHCR AND MALAYSIA CLOSE CAMP
FOR VIETNAMESE BOAT-PEOPLE

	UNHCR and Malaysian authorites on
Tuesday closed Malaysias last camp for
Vietnamese boat-people, ending 21-years of
cooperation in which more than a
quarter-million  people transited the
country.

	Tuesdays ceremony at Sungei Besi
camp, near Kuala Lumpur, was  attended by
Malaysian Foreign Minister Datuk Abdullah
Haji Ahmad Badawi and UNHCRs
Assistant High Commissioner, Sergio
Vieira de Mello.

	The ceremony marked the end of
Malaysias 21-year involvement with the
boat-people from Viet Nam. It occurred just
five days before the end of the
Comprehensive Plan of Action (CPA), a
multi-national effort that was established in
1989 to stem the flow of asylum-seekers
who braved shark-infested waters and
pirate attacks to leave Viet Nam and Laos.
	The CPA established an alternative,
legal migration route out of Viet Nam,
permitting over half a million people to
depart by air. The ground-breaking
agreement also established screening
procedures under which the countries of
first asylum in South-East Asia individually
examined every asylum-seekers claim to
refugee status. Virtually all the refugees,
who had a well-founded fear of persecution
in their country of origin, were given
resettlement places in Western countries.
The screened-out, who could safely return
to their country, were expected to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>.
	UNHCR agreed to set up extensive
assistance programs for returnees in the
countries of origin, and monitored their
well-being and safety in accordance with
those countries commitments to give
returnees the same basic rights as every
other citizen. The agency also chaired the
CPAs Steering Committee, assisted with
care and maintenance in camps for
asylum-seekers, and helped set up refugee
status determination procedures.

	Since 1975, 840,000 Vietnamese
asylum-seekers have arrived in the
countries of South-East Asia and Hong
Kong. Over 755,000 departed for
resettlement in the West. Over 81,000 have
returned safely to Viet Nam.

	There are few happy moments in the
career of a refugee official, and this is one
of them, Vieira de Mello said at Tuesdays
ceremony. The CPA has been a model for
multilateral cooperation, built on the
principles of international solidarity,
burden-sharing, and proper acceptance of
responsibilities. Its purposes were to end
the ongoing tragedy on the high seas, and to
preserve asylum while reducing incentives
for further mass outflow. It has been
successful.

	At its latest meeting, in March 1996,
the CPA Steering Committee envisaged that
all Vietnamese non-refugees in the countries
of South-East Asia would repatriate prior to
the formal closure of the CPA. However, it
is estimated that some 24,700 people will
still be in camps after June 30, including
3,500 in Indonesia; 2,300 in the Philippines;
4,000 in Thailand; and 15,000 in Hong
Kong.

	As of June 30, in accordance with the
conclusions of the seventh Steering
Committee meeting, UNHCR will phase
down its care and maintenance activities in
South-East Asian countries of first asylum.
Transitional arrangements will be
implemented for the post-CPA residual
camp populations, and in the case of Hong
Kong, which has a much larger caseload
than other countries, UNHCR will maintain
its current status. UNHCR will also
continue to assist and monitor the situation
of people who return to Viet Nam.

	The first boat-people landed on the
east coast of Malaysia in May 1975. In all,
nearly 255,000 Vietnamese boat-people
were given temporary asylum in Malaysia,
where they were cared for by UNHCR, the
Malaysian authorities and the Malaysian
Red Crescent Society. A total 248,410 were
resettled in Western countries (some of
them children born in the camps), and over
9,000 returned to Viet Nam.

	At the height of the influx, Malaysia
had eight camps for boat-people, along the
East Coast and in Sabah and Sarawak. As
the wave of arrivals diminished, and as
more people were resettled in the West, the
remaining population was moved to Sungei
Besi.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>22/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-100</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-74</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c23 194.10.201.200 19970108040921 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:08:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=23">  Article </a><hr>23/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-101</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-129</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108041004 text/html 5249
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:09:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5091
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: PRESS Release: LE HCR ET LA MALAISI
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:34:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

					25 juin 1996

LE HCR ET LA MALAISIE FERMENT
LE DERNIER CAMP DE BOAT PEOPLE


	Le Haut Commissariat des Nations
Unies pour les r#fugi#s et les autorit#s
malaisiennes ont ferm# mardi le dernier
camp de boat people vietnamiens, mettant
ainsi un terme # 21 ans de coop#ration au
cours de laquelle plus dun quart de million
de personnes ont transit# par ce pays.
	La c#r#monie a eu lieu dans le camp
de Sungei Besi, pr#s de Kuala Lumpur. Le
ministre des Affaires #trang#res malaisien
Datuk Abdullah Haji Ahmad Badawi et le
Haut Commissaire assistant Sergio Vieira
de Mello #taient pr#sents.
	La c#r#monie a marqu# la fin de la
pr#sence de boat people vietnamiens
pendant 21 ans sur le sol malaisien. Elle
sest d#roul#e exactement cinq jours  avant
la fin du Plan daction global (PAG) adopt#
en 1989 par la communaut# internationale
afin de r#duire le flux de demandeurs dasile
qui bravaient les requins et les pirates de la
mer de Chine pour fuir le Viet Nam et le
Laos.
	Gr#ce au PAG, plus dun demi-million
de personnes ont pu quitter l#galement le
Viet Nam. Le plan pr#voyait #galement des
proc#dures de d#termination du statut de
r#fugi# gr#ce auxquelles les pays de
premier asile dans lAsie du Sud-Est ont pu
examiner chaque demande
individuellement. Pratiquement tous les
r#fugi#s, qui craignaient avec raison la
pers#cution dans leur pays dorigine, ont #t#
r#install#s dans les pays occidentaux. Ceux,
dont les demandes #taient rejet#es et qui
pouvaient rentrer dans leur pays  en toute
s#curit#, #taient invit#s # le faire.
	Dans le cadre de ce plan, le HCR a
mis en marche dimportants programmes
daide et de surveillance pour les rapatri#s
dans les pays dorigine afin de sassurer,
entre autres, que leur bien-#tre et leur
s#curit# soient respect#s, en accord avec
les engagements pris par les autorit#s de
ces pays, cest-#-dire de reconna#tre aux
rapatri#s les m#mes droits quaux autres
citoyens. Le HCR pr#sidait #galement le
comit# directeur du PAG, fournissait aide
aux demandeurs dasile dans les camps et
participait # la mise au point des
proc#dures de d#termination du statut de
r#fugi#.
	Depuis 1975, sur les 840 000
demandeurs dasile vietnamiens dans les
pays de lAsie du Sud-Est, plus de 755 000
ont trouv# un pays de r#installation et plus
de 81 000 sont retourn#s en toute s#curit#
au Viet Nam.
	Les occasions de r#jouissance sont
rares dans la carri#re dun responsable du
HCR, mais ceci en est une, a d#clar# M.
Vieira de Mello au cours de la c#r#monie
de mardi. Le PAG a #t# un mod#le de
coop#ration multilat#rale, bas# sur les
principes de la solidarit# internationale, du
partage du fardeau et de lacceptation des
responsabilit#s de chacun. Son but #tait de
mettre un terme # la trag#die qui se
d#roulait en mer et de pr#server les
principes de lasile tout en essayant de
r#duire les motifs dexil. Cela a #t# un
succ#s.
	Au cours de la derni#re rencontre du
comit# directeur du PAG en mars 1996, il a
#t# d#cid# que tous les Vietnamiens non
reconnus comme r#fugi#s dans les pays de
lAsie du Sud-Est devaient retourner dans
leur pays avant la fermeture officielle du
PAG. On estime, toutefois, quenviron 24
700 personnes se trouveront encore dans les
camps apr#s le 30 juin, dont 3500 en
Indon#sie, 2300 aux Philippines, 4000 en
Tha#lande et 15 000 # Hong Kong.
	A partir du 30 juin, le HCR va r#duire
progressivement son programme
dassistance dans les pays de premier asile
de lAsie du Sud-Est. Des accords de
transition sont pr#vus pour assurer le suivi
du PAG concernant la population restante
dans les camps. En ce qui concerne Hong
Kong, o# le nombre de Vietnamiens dans
les camps est plus important que partout
ailleurs, le HCR conservera son statut
actuel. Le HCR va #galement poursuivre
son programme daide et de surveillance
pour les rapatri#s au Viet Nam.
	Les premiers boat people sont arriv#s
sur la c#te est de la Malaisie en mai 1975.
Au total, pr#s de 255 000 boat people
vietnamiens ont re#u lasile temporaire en
Malaisie et b#n#fici# de laide du HCR, des
autorit#s malaisiennes et de la Soci#t# du
Croissant-Rouge malaisienne. Au total, 248
410 personnes (dont des enfants n#s dans
les camps) ont #t# r#install#es dans les pays
de lOuest et pr#s de 9000 sont retourn#s au
Viet Nam.
	La Malaisie a eu jusqu# huit camps
pour les boat people sur la c#te est et dans
les Etats de Sabah et de Sarawak. Le
nombre des nouveaux arriv#s diminuant et
celui de la r#installation augmentant, la
population restante a pu #tre transf#r#e #
Sungei Besi.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>23/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-102</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-178</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c24 194.10.201.200 19970108041044 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:10:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=24">  Article </a><hr>24/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-103</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-222</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108041127 text/html 2393
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:10:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2235
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: (Fwd) Call for NGO (migrant program
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:34:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------
Date:          Tues, 25 Jun 96 17:07:18
From:           sarahs@iprolink.ch 
Subject:       Call for NGO (migrant programmes) contacts
To:            mx%"forced-migration@mailbase.ac.uk"
Cc:            mx%"acuns-io@brownvm.brown.edu",mx%"pt@wcc-coe.org",mx%"bucht@un.org",mx%"heligman@un.org",mx%"white@unicc.org"


CALL FOR NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF NGOs WORKING ON ISSUES RELATED TO  
MIGRATION AND/ORPROVIDING SERVICES TO MIGRANTS AND THEIR FAMILIES

The UN Population Division is preparing the annual report to the  
Commission onPopulation and Development.

I am a consultant researching and writing the chapter on NGO  activities  
related to theProgramme of Action in chapter 10 (Population Distribution,  
Urbanization and InternalMigration) of the report of the International  
Conference on Population and Development(Cairo 1994).

This chapter will include stastics and examples of NGO work with and for  
migrants andtheir family members. We hope to provide a broadly  
representative report on such NGOwork in all regions of the world,  
including local, national, regional and global NGOs.

Please send me the names and addresses of any NGOs that should  receive  
this survey.This includes not only NGOs working directly on migrant  
issues, but any NGOs that mayhave some programming in this area as part of  
their larger mandates.

Other comments, inquiries and suggestions are very welcome.

Thank you for your assistance,
	Sarah Stephens
--
sarahs@iprolink.ch
Sarah Stephens
route de Trelex
1272 Genolier Switzerland
phone: +41 22 366 1775
fax:   +41 22 366 2972



## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>24/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-104</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-265</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c25 194.10.201.200 19970108041205 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:11:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=25">  Article </a><hr>25/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-105</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-310</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108041305 text/html 4858
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:12:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4700
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: RLC Response to Information Request
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:35:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

From: Refugee Legal Centre  tonyfletch@gn.apc.org 

Response to Information Request                     No:SOM9

Date: 24th June 1996

Subject: Somalia - information about the Bajun clan and their
possible persecution.
______________________________________________________________

     "The Bajuni are a small community of perhaps 3,000 or 4,000
who are predominantly sailors and fishermen. They live in small
communities along the Indian Ocean coastline and on some of the
larger offshore islands between Kismayu and Mombasa, Kenya. There
are also substantial numbers of families living in Kismayu, and
smaller numbers in Mogadishu and Brava" (Cassanelli, May 1995, p
19). According to Somalia. A Country Study, "partial geographical
isolation and an active ethnic consciousness distinguished by
differences in languages separate them from the Somalis" (p 80).
Mohamed and Stockman refer to the Banjuni as part of the Benadiriminority  
communities: "the small sea-faring Bajuni community of
Kismaio and the small islands off the coast" (1996, p 3).

     Cassanelli cites instances of armed militias stealing
equipment from the Bajuni and, although he suggests that "Bajuni
do not seem to have been targeted for personal or political
attack during the fighting [and] because of their maritime
mobility, they have not been in as much danger as other Somali
minorities", he concludes that "many impoverished Bajunis will
not be able to repatriate to Somalia with any promise of
security. Their ability to earn a living in Somalia may be at anend" (pp  
19,20). Earlier, he notes how Kismayu became a centre of
fighting between the major Somali clans following the overthrow
of Barre in 1991, and how the area continues to be unstable:
citing how small Bantu farmers were the most consistent victims
"with few guns and no organized militias of their own" (p 6).

     The general position of members of minority clans has been
described recently in a draft Minority Rights Group report by
Mohamed and Stockman, 1996: "members of Somalia's minority
communities .... have suffered disproportionately from the war
and from the lack of relief aid. As most of these communities
have not formed militias, they have been vulnerable to almost
continual warfare and occupation and are excluded from the
political process that might result in peace and the formation
of a new state structure", (p 1); "those outside the system,
including members of most minority groups are especially
vulnerable to attack" and "these groups have been marginalised in
a minority status because of their small numbers, low socio-political  
status, and weak military position" (p 3).
     The Quaker Committee for Refugees described the situation
for minority tribes thus:

     "When the Siad Barre regime fell in early 1991, the minority
     tribes were the only group in Somalia to be unarmed. As a
     result, they have been the most vulnerable group, and
     estimates of death in the minority tribes are in the
     hundreds of thousands. Not only were they unable to defend      
themselves against troops of various factions, their food
     and property were looted time and agian. The perception of
     the majority Somali tribes is that the minority tribes are
     non-Somali, and therefore are less than human. This hass
     led to human rights abuses and deaths on a massive scale" (p
     1).

     The analysis is repeated in Amnesty International's note of
15th February 1993.

Attached

Amnesty International, Amnesty International's Concerns Regarding
Human Rights Violations Against Minority Tribes in Somalia, 15th
February 1993

CDR/UNHCR, Response to Information Requests, SOM11949 19th
October 1992; SOM9203 20th September 1991; SOM5071 27th April
1990

Lee Cassanelli, Victims and Vulnerable Groups in Southern
Somalia, May 1995

Library of Congress, Somalia. A country study, May 1992

Mohamed and Stockman, with Barnes, Caught in the Crossfire: The
Impact of Armed Conflict on Children from Minority Groups in
Somalia, 1996

Alex Neve, The Minority Tribes of Somalia, 5th March 1993

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>25/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-106</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B028-342</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c26 194.10.201.200 19970108041343 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:13:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=26">  Article </a><hr>26/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-107</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-35</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108041423 text/html 2398
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:13:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2240
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Announcement
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:35:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


                                    LANDEGG ACADEMY

                        FOUNDATIONS OF RACIAL UNITY
                                   26 August-01 September '96
                                                Course 9619

_________________________________________________________________

* AN IN-DEPTH COURSE ON:
        The study of racial unity and approaches to the education of
children with the objective of decreasing and eventually eliminating
the disease of racism.

* AN OUTSTANDING FACULTY:
   -Dr. Michael Bond, Professor of Psychology, The Chinese     University  
of Hong Kong
   -Dr. H. B. Danesh, Psychiatrist, Dean of Landegg Academy
   -Dr. John Maclaren, Professor of Law, University of Victoria,     
Canada.
   -Dr. Nader Saidi, Professor of Sociology, Carleton College,     
Minnesota, USA.

* A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY:
   For an in-depth study of:
   -the Psychological, social, structural, and spiritual causes of     
racism.
   -the scientific and spiritual foundations of racial unity.
   -practical steps towards creation of models of racial unity.

* A COURSE DESIGNED FOR:
   - Baha'is and
   - Students and Scholars in Political Science, Sociology,     Education,  
Religion,..

* THE COURSE BEGINS ON THE EVENING OF MONDAY, AUGUST 26   AND ENDS ON  
SUNDAY 01 AFTER LUNCH.  COURSE FEE: SFR.100

__________________________________________________________________
                Landegg Academy, CH-9405 Wienacht/ AR, Switzerland.         
                   Tel: +41-71-8919131   Fax: +41-71-8914301

FOR INFORMATION BROCHURE AND REGISTRATION FORM PLEASE                       
    FORWARD US YOUR MAILING ADDRESS.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>26/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-108</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c27 194.10.201.200 19970108041505 text/html 741
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:14:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 584
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
assistance needed to sustain some 1.8
million people.  Already cut from this
budget were essential activities that had
been deferred from 1995.  UNHCR has SO
far received US 110 million dollars against
this budget, all of which has been expended.
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=27">  Article </a><hr>27/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-109</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-153</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108041605 text/html 6296
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:15:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6138
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Deputy High Commissioner"Speech to
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:35:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Remarks by the
Deputy High Commissioner
Mr. Gerald Walzer

Meeting of the Standing Committee
UNHCR
25 June 1996


Mr. Chairman, Distinguished Delegates,

	
	On behalf of the High Commissioner,
it is my privilege to join you at this meeting
of the Standing Committee.  The agenda for
our meeting over the next three days is a full
one, beginning with international protection.
 The Director of the Division of
International Protection will introduce this
year#s Note, which reviews UNHCR#s
efforts toward developing comprehensive
approaches for preventing and resolving
refugee problems.  The Note highlights the
framework of international protection
principles which, in addition to political
will, must be at the heart of any successful
comprehensive approach.  In some regions,
however, the gap has widened between the
protection principles which are supported
by a wide consensus of the international
community, and the actual  treatment which
refugees and asylum seekers receive on the
ground.  Whilst UNHCR is every day
acutely conscious of the great sacrifices that
many asylum countries are making and the
disproportionate burden carried by some,
we must reiterate our appeal for adherence
to the international protection principles,
particularly in respect of the principle of
non-refoulement and the granting of asylum.
 Mr. McNamara will elaborate on these
topics when he presents our reflections on
the annual Note and the protection issues
which are before you.

	 Mr. Chairman, I should like to devote
the short time that I have here this morning
to updating you on major developments
since mid-April, when the Standing
Committee last met.

	I begin with Africa, and it is with
deep sadness that I inform you of the tragic
death on the 24th of May in Nairobi of our
colleague, Mr. Peter Otieno Onginde, a
UNHCR driver who was killed during an
armed robbery while on duty.  Just a few
days later, on 4 June, three delegates of the
ICRC lost their lives in a brutal ambush in
northern Burundi.  These tragedies remind
us of the enormous dangers to which
humanitarian workers are exposed, and of
the need to take all possible steps to
maximize security for staff as they work to
protect and assist others.

	Although the Africa region constitutes
one of our main agenda items and the
Director of the Regional Bureau for Africa,
Mr. Kamel Morjane, will address this
Committee later in the meeting, I feel
compelled to sound an alarm about the
grave consequences with which we -- the
international community and UNHCR --
may soon be faced in the Great Lakes
region.  As you are aware, we have
appealed for US 288 million dollars for
humanitarian assistance in the Great Lakes
region for 1996.  This amount provides for
a limited budget for voluntary repatriation
and only the basic levels of protection and
assistance needed to sustain some 1.8
million people.  Already cut from this
budget were essential activities that had
been deferred from 1995.  UNHCR has <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>
far received US 110 million dollars against
this budget, all of which has been expended.

	The consequences of this severe
underfunding in the Great Lakes region are
clear, and the impact on the refugees, and on
Tanzania and Zaire, is apparent:

--sanitation systems are breaking down,
increasing the risk of disease;

--lack of firewood is causing a major
environmental disaster in refugee-hosting
regions;

--lack of replacements for trucks, which are
breaking down regularly, is seriously
hampering our logistics capacity and
contingency preparedness;

--lack of replacements for plastic sheeting,
most of which is nearly 2 years old and in
tatters, causes deteriorating health
conditions, particularly respiratory disease.

This lack of sufficient funding is causing
havoc in both our planning and monitoring
throughout the Great Lakes region, and we
now risk losing valued NGO partners who
have no assurance of UNHCR#s ability to
finance our programmes in the region.

	The overall situation is made worse
by the violence in Burundi, for which
precious emergency stocks must be
reserved in the event of further large-scale
forced population movements.  The
challenge increases with new arrivals on
the one hand and, with no quick solutions in
sight, the absence of large-scale repatriation
on the other.
	
	Mr. Chairman,

	I should like to make one other
comment on our collective approach to this
region.  Some commentators have suggested
that decreasing the levels of our
humanitarian assistance would deliver a
message to the refugees and that they will
consequently return home.  Cutting back
assistance may send a message, but from all
we know, many if not most of the refugees
will only disperse within their countries of
asylum, further increasing the strain on the
host countries, exacerbating the security
situation even further, and undermining
UNHCR#s ability to ensure international
protection and promote solutions.  On
behalf of the High Commissioner, I must
appeal urgently to all donors to adequately
support these programmes, whilst we
continue actively to promote voluntary
repatriation and, to the extent possible, seek
the relocation of camps away from
dangerous border areas.  Relocation of
camps is a temporary but urgently needed
measure while efforts continue to improve
conditions for return, and while
governments and the international
community work to solidify greater peace
and stability.

	Ernest Chipman, Head of the Fund
Raising Service, will provide further
details on funding

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>27/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-110</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-196</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c28 194.10.201.200 19970108041643 text/html 800
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:16:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 643
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
nationalists are sharply limited.  Freedom of the press and assembly is
severely limited, and violence against ethnic minorities and opposition
figures is on the rise.  National elections -- a key step in the peace process
-- cannot meaningfully take place SO long as Karadzic and Mladic remain at
large.

- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=28">  Article </a><hr>28/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-111</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-236</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108041728 text/html 15189
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:16:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15030
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: HRW: Former Yugoslavia--Letter Urgi
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:35:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: HRW: Former Yugoslavia--Letter Urging Arrest of War Criminals

27 June 1996--Over one hundred organizations and individuals in Europeand  
the United States today are calling upon the G-7 leaders nowmeeting in  
Lyons to ensure the immediate arrest of indicted warcriminals in the  
former Yugoslavia and their surrender to the Hague forprosecution.  The  
fact that the architects of the Bosnian slaughter,particularly Radovan  
Karadzic and Ratko Mladic continue freely to moveabout poisons the peace  
process, threatens the forthcoming electionsand undermines the authority  
of the Hague Tribunal.

Apprehension of indicted war criminals is absolutely required if the Dayton
agreement is to be saved and peace and democracy nourished in Bosnia.  The
European and American leadership that crafted the Dayton accords now should
combine to ensure that IFOR troops act to support the Tribunal by arresting
those indicted and transferring them to the Hague.

The full letter and list of signatories is attached.
Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000
Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org


H.E. Mr. Wim Kok
Prime Minister of the Netherlands
Binnenhof 20
P.O. Box 25001
2500 EA The Hague
The NETHERLANDS

                                                  June 27, 1996

Dear Prime Minister Kok:

On behalf of the 194 undersigned persons and organizations, we respectfully
call upon you to demonstrate the leadership needed to ensure the prompt arrest
of indicted war criminals in the former Yugoslavia and their surrender to the
Hague for prosecution.  As we approach the first anniversary of the Srebrenica
massacre, the men responsible for the killing and disappearance of some 8,000
Muslims enjoy not only freedom but power.  The continued presence in Bosnia of
Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic and other indicted war criminals is poisoning
the peace process, threatening the forthcoming elections, and undermining the
authority and viability of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.  Decisive action is urgently needed before the important advances
of the past year are lost.

There can be no question that the International Implementation Force (IFOR) is
fully authorized to provide active support to the Tribunal.  Security Council
Resolution 1031 charged IFOR with ensuring compliance with the Dayton
agreement, which includes a requirement that all parties cooperate with the
Tribunal.  Article 29 of the Tribunal's Statute sets forth the various forms
of cooperation that is due, including "the identification and location of
persons," "the arrest or detention of persons," and "the surrender or the
transfer of the accused to the International Tribunal."  Given the Serbian
authorities' utter lack of cooperation with the Tribunal, the task must fall
to IFOR to guarantee that this historic opportunity to bring genocidal killers
to justice is not squandered.

With the Bosnian government threatening to pull out of the elections if
Karadzic and Mladic are not apprehended and Chief Prosecutor Richard Goldstone
expressing increasing concern about the fate of the Tribunal without their
apprehension, securing the arrest and surrender of these two mass murderers
should be the Western government's top priority in Bosnia.  However, Western
leaders continue to block the use of IFOR troops to arrest indicted war
criminals.  While we understand your preoccupation with avoiding unnecessary
risk to IFOR, we are confident that the 60,000 IFOR troops in Bosnia, backed
by the finest equipment for intelligence gathering and rapid deployment, can
find a propitious time and place to seize these two fugitives.  Indeed, your
failure to bring these men to trial places many more lives at risk, in Bosnia
and elsewhere, by sending the signal that there is no price to be paid for
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, whether committed against
local civilians or international troops.

The failure of the international community to arrest Karadzic, Mladic and
other indicted war criminals is also having an increasingly corrosive effect
on the political situation in Bosnia.  The presence in office of the very
individuals responsible for massive abuses over the past four years has
assured that hundreds of thousands of refugees and internally displaced people
cannot return home and that political opportunities for anyone but hard-line
nationalists are sharply limited.  Freedom of the press and assembly is
severely limited, and violence against ethnic minorities and opposition
figures is on the rise.  National elections -- a key step in the peace process
-- cannot meaningfully take place <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> long as Karadzic and Mladic remain at
large.

Apprehension of indicted war criminals is absolutely required if the Dayton
agreement is to be saved and peace and democracy nourished in Bosnia. We
respectfully urge you to order the troops under your command to make an
immediate and urgent priority of locating these fugitives and identifying
circumstances when IFOR can arrest them on favorable terms.
Thank you for your attention to this important matter.

Sincerely,

A similar letter has been sent to other European Head of States and President
Bill Clinton

Co-signers for War Crimes Letter to President Clinton and European Heads of
State:

1.   Abo Akademi Institute for Human Rights - Finland
2.   Action Council for Peace in the Balkans
3.   Albanian Helsinki Committee
4.   American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee
5.   American Committee to Save Bosnia
6.   Americans for Democratic Action
7.   American Friends Service Committee, Washington Office
8.   American Jewish Committee
9.   American Jewish Congress
10.  Amnesty International U.S.A.
11.  Anti-Defamation League
12.  Article 19
13.  Association Sarajevo, France
14.  Austrian Coalition for Women's Human Rights
15.  Austrian Helsinki Committee
16.  Bulgarian Helsinki Committee
17.  B'nai B'rith
18.  Bosnia Support Committee
19.  Canadian Helsinki Watch Group
20.  Center for Civil and Human Rights, Notre Dame Law School
21.  Center for Civil Society in Southeastern Europe
22.  Center for Constitutional Rights
23.  Center for Development of International Law
24.  Center for Victims of Torture
25.  Citoyens-Citoyennes pour la Bosnie-Herzegovine, France
26.  Civic Committee for Human Rights, Croatia
27.  Coalition for International Justice
28.  Collectif Europeen pour la Bosnie-Herzegovine, France
29.  Committee to Protect Journalists
30.  Convergences Bosnie-Herzegovine, monthly newspaper- France
31.  Council on Economic Priorities
32.  Croatian Helsinki Committee
33.  Czech Helsinki Committee
34.  Dalmatinski Odbor Solidarnosti, Split.
35.  Danish Helsinki Committee
36.  Demilitarization For Democracy
37.  Equality Now
38.  Federation Internationale des Ligues des Droits de l'Homme, France
39.  Finnish Helsinki Committee
40.  Finnish League for Human Rights
41.  Frauensolidaritat, Austria
42.  Friedensdialog/MIROVNI DIALOG (Peace Dialogue), Austria
43.  Friends of Bosnia
44.  Greek Helsinki Monitor
45.  Heartland Alliance
46.  Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Serbia    47.  Human Rights  
Advocates
48.  Human Rights Watch
49.  Humanistische Union, Germany
50.  Immigration and Refugee Services of America
51.  Institut Europeen & Communaute des Ecoles Bosniaques en France
52.  Institute for the Study of Genocide
53.  International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights, Austria
54.  International Human Rights Law Group
55.  International Human Rights Law Institute of DePaul University
56.  International League for Human Rights
57.  Internationale Gesellschaft fur Menschenrechte - Deutsche Sektion,
       Germany
58.  Internationale Gesellschaft fur Menschenrechte
59.  IZBOR - Defense des victimes de la Purification ethnique
60.  Jacob Blaustein Institute
61.  Komitee Cap Anamur, Germany (Medecins de secours allemands)
62.  Kulturni Centar (Association of Refugees from Bosnia Herzegovina in
      Austria)
63.  Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
64.  Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic, Yale Law School
65.  Ludwig Boltzmann Institute of Human Rights, Austria
66.  Lutheran Office for Governmental Affairs, Evangelical Lutheran Church in
      America
67.  Maryknoll Justice and Peace Office
68.  Midwest Coalition for Human Rights
69.  Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights
70.  Minority Rights Group - Greece
71.  Montenegrin Helsinki Committee for Human Rights
72.  National Association of Arab Americans (NAAA)
73.  National Confederation of American Ethnic Groups Inc.
74.  National Council of Jewish Women
75.  National Federation of Croatian Americans
76.  National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council
77.  Operation USA
78.  Paris Bosnie-Herzegovine Solidarite, France
79.  Parliamentary Human Rights Group, London80.  Peace Action
81.  Physicians for Human Rights
82.  Radio Bosnie-Paris
83.  Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Rights
84.  The Sisterhood Is Global Institute
85.  Slovak Helsinki Committee
86.  Society for Threatened Peoples, Germany
87.  Solidarite Bosnie-Herzegovine, France
88.  Swedish Helsinki Committee
89.  Swiss Helsinki Committee
90.  Terre des Femmes, Germany
91.  Union of American Hebrew Congregations
92.  Unitarian Universalist Association
93.  United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism
94.  University of Chicago Center for International Studies
95.  US Committee for Refugees
96.  Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation
97.  The Washington Office for Bosnia
98.  The Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children
99.  Women Refugees Project
100. World Concern
101. World Federalists Association
102. Coalition for Intervention Against Genocide
103. United Nations Association for the USA.
104. Alliance to Defend Bosnia-Herzegovina, Scotland
105. Ligue des Droits de l'Homme, France
106. Medica, Germany
107. Commission juridique des Collectifs contre la Purification Ethnique
Individuals:
1.  Ivar Amundsen
2.  Bibi Andersson
3.  Niels Barfoed, writer and journalist4.  Freda Meissner-Blau, President  
ECOROPA
5.  Danilo Burzan, Editor in Chief of MONTENA FAX- Independent Montenegrin new
     agency
6.  Dr. Dragosa Burzan, Member of Montenegrin Parliament
7.  David Lord, Co-director of Conciliation Resources
8.  Patrice Canivez - Vukovar-Sarajevo Committee
9.  Sir Patrick Cormack
10. Andy Carl, Co-director of Conciliation Resources
11. Alain Destexhe
12. Nikos Dimou, writer
13. Faik Dizdarevic, Secretary General - Association Sarajevo
14. Jean-Marie Domenach
15. Mariapia Fanfani
16. Alain Finkelkraut
17. Slobodan Franocic, President -Montenegrin Helsinki Committee for Human
      Rights
18. Valery Giscard d'Estaing
19. Marijana Grandits
20. Pierre Hassner
21. Quitin Hoare & Branka Magas -  Alliance to Defend Bosnia-Herzegovina
22. Francis Jeanson, President - Association Sarajevo
23. Jasminka Kavaric, Professor
24. Lord Kingsland
25. Christine von Kohl, journalist
26. Veseljko Koprivica, Editor in Chief of LIBERAL
27. Branka Kovacovic, Secretary General - Montenegrin Helsinki Committee for
      Human Rights
28. Prof. Dr. Wolfram Karl, University of Salzburg
29. Prof. Lew Kopelew, President d'honneur du Comite CAP ANAMUR
30. Calum MacDonald
31. Tadeusz Mazowiecki
32. Irena Maryniak
33. Ljubisa Mitrovic, Editor in Chief of MONITOR - Montenegrin independent
      weekly
34. Dr. Jakov Mrvaljevic, President of Montenegrin Oen Centre
35. Prof. Dr. Phil. Ove Nathan- former president of the Copenhagen  
University36. Dr. Rupert Neudeck, President du Comite CAP ANAMUR
37. Veronique Nahoum-Grappe
38. Per Norgaard - composer
39. Milika Pavlovic, writer - President of the Association PUBLIC AGAINST
      FASCISM
40. Slavko Perokic, President of the Liberal Alliance of Montenegro and Vice
      President of Liberal International
41. Dzemal Perovic, Member of Montenegrin Parliament
42. Dr. Miodrag Perovic, President of Democratic Civic Forum of Montenegro
43. Godert Posthumus
44. Herbert Pundik, former editor in chief of Politiken (Danish Daily
       newspaper)
45. Rene Raindorf
46. Zarko Rakcevic, President of the Social Democratic Party of Montenegro
47. Rade Ratkovic, Professor - member of LSCG Executive Committee
48. Prof. Dr. Med. Povl Riis
49. Christian Schwarz-Schilling
50. Karl Johannes zu Schwarzenberg
51. Toger Seidenfaden, editor in chief of Politiken
52. Prof. Dr. Jur. Erik Siesby
53. Mabel Wisse Smit, European Action Council
54. Willemijn Verloop, European Action Council
55. Simone Susskind
56. Philip Spender, Director of Administration- Index on Censorship
57. Ursula Owen, Editor and Chief executive of Index on Censorship
58. Sue Woodford, Chair of Council, Index on Censorship
59. RH. Sir David Steel KBE
60. Terezija Stoisits, Green Party
61. Yannis Tzannetakos, journalist
62. Gregory Vallianatos, journalist and leading gay activist
63. Irma Wernhart
64. Simon Wiesenthal
65. Anthony Borden & Jan Williams, International War and Peace Reporting
66. Pers Zeri, professor of media, Panteios University
67. Mr. Daniel Cohn-Bendit  - Forum Europeen pour la Prevention active des
      conflits
68. Mr. Michel Rocard - Forum Europeen pour la Prevention active des  
conflits69. Mr. Bernard Kouchner - Forum Europeen pour la Prevention  
active des
      conflits
70. Mr. Jose Maria Mendiluce Pereiro - Forum Europeen pour la Prevention
      active des conflits
71. Mr. Pierre Pradier - Forum Europeen pour la Prevention active des conflits
72. Baroness Shreela Flather
73. Baroness Caroline Cox

Members of the European Parliament:
74. Mrs. Anne Andre-Leonard (B, ELDR)
75. Mr. Jan Willem Bertens (NL, ELDR)
76. Mr. Willy De Clercq (B, ELDR)
77. Mrs. Nel van Dijk (NL, Green Group)
78. Mrs. Raymonde Dury (B, PSE)
79. Mr. Otto von Habsburg (D, PPE)
80. Mr. Fernand Herman (B, PPE)
81. Mrs. Glenys Kinnock (UK, PSE)
82. Mrs. Catherine Lalumiere (F, ARE)
83. Mr. Paul Lannoye (B, Green Group)
84. Mr. Arie Oostlander (NL, PPE)
85. Mr. Poul Schlter (DK, PPE)
86. Mrs. Antoinette Spaak (B, ELDR)
87. Sir Jack Stewart Clark (UK, PPE)


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>28/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-112</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-290</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c29 194.10.201.200 19970108041806 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:17:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=29">  Article </a><hr>29/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-113</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B029-334</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108041847 text/html 4078
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:18:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3920
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: HRW: Czech Republic--Discrimination
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: HRW: Czech Republic--Discrimination against Roma

For release June 28, 1996

The Czech government has failed to combat discrimination against Roma by state
officials as well as by private individuals, Human Rights Watch/Helsinki
charged today.  In Foreigners in Their Own Land, Human Rights Watch finds that
Roma suffer blatant discrimination, including violent attacks by "skinheads"
and other racist hate groups.  Since 1989, an estimated twenty-seven Roma have
died as a result of racially motivated violence in the Czech Republic. One
hundred and eighty-one attacks were recorded in 1995 alone.
The government has taken some commendable first steps to rectify the problem,
but they have not been enough to slow the trend.  Police are often sympathetic
to "skinheads," fail to make arrests or protect Roma under threat. When cases
do go to trial, the sentences are often light,  sending the message that these
crimes are not considered serious.

At the bottom of the social ladder, Roma face daily discrimination in housing,
education and employment.  They are often segregated in "special schools,"
denied residency permits and refused jobs, solely because of their  
ethnicity.
Since January 1993, Roma have been negatively affected by the Czech
citizenship law, which came into effect after the split of Czechoslovakia.  A
large number of Roma are now without Czech citizenship, even though they are
long-term or lifelong residents of the Czech Republic.  Some of them are now
stateless, others have been deported to Slovakia.  Evidence suggests that the
law was drafted with the specific intent of removing Roma from the  
country.
Overall the Czech record on human rights has been admirable since the fall of
the communist government in 1989.  But the otherwise laudable reforms of Czech
democracy have failed to ensure many basic human rights to the Roma  
minority.The effects of the citizenship law and the state's unwillingness  
to combat
racist violence reveal an undeniable pattern of discrimination along ethnic
lines.

Copies of the report are available from the Publications Department, Human
Rights Watch, 485 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10017-6104, for $6.00 (domestic),
$7.50 (international).

Human Rights Watch/Helsinki
Human Rights Watch is a nongovernmental organization established in 1978 to
monitor and promote the observance of internationally recognized human rights
in Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and among the signatories of
the Helsinki accords. Kenneth Roth is the executive director and Robert L.
Bernstein is the chair of the board. Its Helsinki division was established in
1978 to monitor and promote domestic and international compliance with the
human rights provisions of the 1975 Helsinki accords. Holly Cartner is the
executive director and Jonathan Fanton is the chair of the advisory  
committee.Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000

Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>29/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-114</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-25</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c30 194.10.201.200 19970108041926 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:18:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=30">  Article </a><hr>30/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-115</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-66</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108042006 text/html 2836
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:19:29 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2678
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: RLC Response to Information Request
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

From: Refugee Legal Centre  tonyfletch@gn.apc.org 

Response to Information Request                     No:TUR18

Date: 1st July 1996

Subject: Turkey -  information about the TKP and the TKP-ML,
particularly on the links between them.
_____________________________________________________________

     According to Revolutionary and Dissident Movements of the
World, p 345, the TKP, Trkiye Komnist Partisi (also known as
the CPT or Communist Party of Turkey) was formed in 1920 and was
illegal throughout most of its existence. The TKP "gave
unquestioning loyalty to the Soviet leadership and followed it
in the new policy of glasnost and perestroika after 1986". In
1988, the TKP and the Workers' Party of Turkey merged to form the
UCPT, United Communist Party of Turkey, (or TBKP, Trkiye
Birle ik Komnist Partisi). The UCPT was banned in July 1991. On
p 349, Revolutionary and Dissident Movements of the World reports
that the TKP-ML, Trkiye Komnist Partisi/Marksist Leninist is
the "political wing" of a terrorist organisation called TIKKO,
Trkiye I ci Kyl Kurtulu  Ordusu.

     Ismet Imset, The PKK pp 436-439, provides details on the
TKP-ML, its formation in 1972, its splinter groups and its Maoist
ideology. Imset confirms that the TKP-ML is the political party
controlling the TIKKO and notes that "aside from its name, this
terrorist movement has no resemblance or connection with the
original Turkish Communist Party, which has now come out of the
cold and become a legal entity" (p 436; the book was published in
1992 and appears to have been written before the July 1992
banning of the UCPT).

     Further, corroborative, information on TIKKO and the TKP-ML
is in the CDR/UNHCR Response to Information Request of 14th
November 1994.


Attached -

Arnold et al, Revolutionary and Dissident Movements of the World,
3rd ed, Longman 1991, pp 345, 349

CDR/UNHCR Response to Information Request TUR18923.E, 14th
November 1994

Ismet G Imset, The PKK. A Report on Separatist Violence in Turkey
(1973-1992), Turkish Daily News Publication 1992, pp 436-439


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>30/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-116</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-108</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c31 194.10.201.200 19970108042044 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:20:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=31">  Article </a><hr>31/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-117</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-148</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108042134 text/html 3387
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:20:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3229
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/30210] China Flood 4/7/1996 -F
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0183

 ------------------------




                               CHINA - FLOODS
                      DHA GENEVA SITUATION REPORT NO.1
                                 4 JULY 1996




  1. SINCE 27 JUNE 1996 UNUSUALLY SEVERE SEASONAL FLOODS HAVE AFFECTED
PARTS OF PROVINCES ANHUI,ZHEJIAN, JIANGXI AND GUIZHOU.



  2. UN/DHA RESIDENT COORDINATOR BEIJING PROVIDED FOLLOWING
  INFORMATION BASED ON A REPORT OF THE CHINESE MINISTRY OF CIVIL
  AFFAIRS OF 3 JULY 1996:  INITIAL ESTIMATES INDICATE 111 PERSONS
  DEAD, 448'100 PERSONS EVACUATED, 764'000 PERSONS IN 2'520 VILLAGES
  ISOLATED BY FLOODS,  OVER 10 MILLION PEOPLE AFFECTED,  NEARLY
  100'000 HOUSING UNITS DESTROYED, 389'000 HOUSING UNITS DAMAGED,
  800'000 HA CROPS AFFECTED, TOTAL DIRECT ECONOMIC LOSS ESTIMATED AT
  USD1.2 BILLION (10 BILLION RMB YUAN).

  3. ADDITIONAL DAMAGES ARE REPORTED FROM SOME OF THE AFFECTED
  PROVINCES: LOSS OF DRAUGHT ANIMALS, DESTRUCTION OF AND DAMAGE TO
  INFRASTRUCTURE  (TELECOMMUNICATIONS, ELECTRICITY), IRRIGATION
  PROJECTS AND PUBLIC FACILITIES.

  4. THE CHINESE MINISTRY OF CIVIL AFFAIRS HAS EARMARKED SPECIAL
  FUNDS FOR PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE AND STATES IN ITS REPORT THAT THE
  AFFECTED AREAS ARE PREPARED TO ACCEPT INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

  5.  BASED ON METEOROLOGICAL FORECAST, FURTHER WORSENING OF
  SITUATION MUST BE ANTICIPATED.  UN/DHA RESIDENT COORDINATOR
  MONITORING THE SITUATION IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH GOVERNMENT
  AUTHORITIES AND WILL PROVIDE NATURE OF SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS WHEN
  THESE AVAILABLE

  6.  DHA IS PREPARED TO SERVE AS A CHANNEL FOR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS TO
  BE USED DURING THE IMMEDIATE RELIEF PHASE. FUNDS ARE SPENT IN
  COORDINATION WITH RELEVANT ORGANIZATIONS OF THE UN SYSTEM, AND DHA
  PROVIDES DONOR GOVERNMENTS WITH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION ON UTILIZATION
  OF FUNDS CONTRIBUTED.

  7.  FUNDS SHOULD BE TRANSFERRED TO DHA ACCOUNT NO. CO.590.160.1 AT
  SWISS BANK CORPORATION, CASE POSTALE 2770, CH-1211 GENEVA 2, WITH
  REFERENCE: CHINA - FLOODS, DHA GENEVA.

    8.   FOR COORDINATION PURPOSES, DONORS ARE REQUESTED TO INFORM
    DHA GENEVA, AS INDICATED BELOW, OF BILATERAL RELIEF
    MISSIONS/PLEDGES/CONTRIBUTIONS AND THEIR CORRESPONDING VALUE BY
    ITEM.


  TELEPHONE NO: +41-22-917.12.34
  IN CASE OF EMERGENCY ONLY: +41-22-917.20.10
  DESK OFFICER: MR. H. ZIMMERMANN, DIRECT TEL: +41-22-917.35.16
  PRESS TO CONTACT: MS. M. MOULIN-ACEVEDO, DIRECT TEL:
  +41-22-917.28.56
  TELEX: 414242 DHA CH
  FAX: +41-22-917.00.23
  EMAIL: DHAGVA AT DHA.UNICC.ORG

  DPR 310 CHA





                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>31/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-118</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-194</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c32 194.10.201.200 19970108042225 text/html 915
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:21:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 758
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
remain in power in Republika Srpska," Richard Dicker continued, "U.S.
President Clinton has argued and the  OSCE has now certified that free and
fair elections go forward in Bosnia. National elections   a key step in the
peace process   cannot meaningfully take place SO long as Karadzic and Mladic
remain at large. The international community will become accomplice to a sham
election and likely additional slaughter. "
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=32">  Article </a><hr>32/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-119</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-240</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108042317 text/html 8308
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:22:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8150
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Bosnia--HRW Condemns the Failure to
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: Bosnia--HRW Condemns the Failure to Arrest Karadzic and Mladic

27 June 96--As the first anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre approaches,
the men accused of ordering the killing and disappearance of 8,000 Muslims
there enjoy not only freedom but power. The stakes surrounding today's
International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia hearing against
Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic cannot be overstated. The continued presence
in Bosnia of Karadzic, Mladic and other indicted war criminals is poisoning
the peace process, threatening the forthcoming elections, and undermining the
authority and viability of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.

According to Richard Dicker, Associate Counsel Human Rights Watch, "It is
shameful that the international community lacks the political will to arrest
those accused of masterminding renewed genocide in Europe and risks
squandering the first opportunity in nearly fifty years to bring the
architects of ethnic slaughter to justice. The public airing of these
allegations highlights the unconscionable failure of those Western political
leaders who created the Tribunal and have now abandoned it. Today's Rule 61
hearing is a challenge to the international community to bring justice to
Bosnia."

"While low scale ethnic cleansing continues and those who perpetrated it
remain in power in Republika Srpska," Richard Dicker continued, "U.S.
President Clinton has argued and the  OSCE has now certified that free and
fair elections go forward in Bosnia. National elections   a key step in the
peace process   cannot meaningfully take place <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> long as Karadzic and Mladic
remain at large. The international community will become accomplice to a sham
election and likely additional slaughter. "

Given the extremely difficult circumstances surrounding the Tribunal's efforts
to bring individuals to justice, Rule 61 provides the court with a tool to
prevent uncooperative parties from thwarting its work. Rule 61 enables the
Tribunal to carry out non-punitive functions that do not require the presence
of the accused. When an arrest warrant has not been executed and the
Prosecutor can show that he has taken reasonable steps to do <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a>, he  may
question witnesses and read out relevant parts of the indictment in open
court. This provides the public with details of the alleged crimes committed
and helps prevent the accused from stifling witnesses and victims.
If the court finds that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
accused committed the crimes, then the court takes an additional enforcement
measure: issuing an international arrest warrant through Interpol that is
transmitted to all states. Currently, arrest warrants have been issued to the
authorities of the relevant states and a few other governments. This carries
some additional legal significance and important symbolic value. Furthermore,
if the Prosecutor satisfies the trial court that the failure to carry out the
warrant was due to the failure of  a state to cooperate, the  
Tribunal'sPresident  notifies the Security Council.

Human Rights Watch believes that this proceeding is fully consistent with the
requirements of international law and protects the defendant's right to a fair
trial.

The failure of the international community to arrest Karadzic, Mladic and
other indicted war criminals is having an increasingly corrosive effect on the
political situation in Bosnia.  The presence in office of the very individuals
responsible for massive abuses over the past four years has assured that
hundreds of thousands of refugees and internally displaced people cannot
return home and that political opportunities for anyone but hard-line
nationalists are sharply limited.

With Chief Prosecutor Richard Goldstone expressing increasing concern about
the fate of the Tribunal without their apprehension, securing the arrest and
surrender of these two indicted war criminals should be NATO's top priority in
Bosnia. However, Washington, London and Paris continue to block the use of
IFOR troops to arrest indicted war criminals.  The U.S. Department of Defense
insists, despite a growing budget of $250 billion, that it is incapable of
managing the risks associated with the 60,000 NATO-led troops in Bosnia
arresting the two men.

There can be no question that the International Implementation Force (IFOR) is
fully authorized to provide active support to the Tribunal.  Security Council
Resolution 1031 charged IFOR with ensuring compliance with the Dayton
agreement, which includes a requirement that all parties cooperate with the
Tribunal.  Article 29 of the Tribunal's Statute sets forth the various forms
of cooperation that are due, including "the identification and location of
persons," "the arrest or detention of persons," and "the surrender or the
transfer of the accused to the International Tribunal."  Given the Serbian
authorities' utter lack of cooperation with the Tribunal, the task must fall
to IFOR to guarantee that the opportunity to bring those accused of  
genocideto justice is not squandered.

While steps must be taken to avoid additional loss of life, Human Rights Watch
believes that the IFOR troops in Bosnia, backed by the finest equipment for
intelligence gathering and rapid deployment, can find a propitious time and
place to seize these two fugitives.  Indeed, the failure to bring these men to
trial places many more lives at risk, in Bosnia and elsewhere, by sending the
signal that no one will be held accountable for genocide, war crimes and
crimes against humanity.

IFOR troops should be deployed to "encounter" indicted war criminals in order
to remove them from the political scene and transfer them to The Hague to
answer for their actions. IFOR troops should make  an immediate and urgent
priority of locating these fugitives and identifying circumstances when IFOR
can arrest them on favorable terms. In addition, IFOR troops should be
deployed to secure the safety of minority ethnic groups in Republika Srpska to
prevent reprisals. Furthermore, if the Republica Srpska resists IFOR efforts
to arrest Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, High Representative Carl Bildt
should reimpose sanctions and deny all non-humanitarian aid to the Republica
Srpska.

On June 27, coinciding with the beginning of the Rule 61 hearing in The Hague
and the G7 Heads of State meeting in Lyon, France, Human Rights Watch will be
releasing a letter to the heads of state of the important IFOR contributing
countries. The letter calls for action to apprehend Karadzic and Mladic. It
has been signed by over one hundred organizations and prominent individuals in
both Europe and the United States.

Human Rights Watch
Human Rights Watch was established in 1978 to monitor and promote the
observance of internationally recognized human rights in Africa, the Americas,
Asia, the Middle East and among the signatories of the Helsinki accords.  The
Executive Director is Kenneth Roth and the Chair is Robert L. Bernstein.
Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000

Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>32/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-120</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-258</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c33 194.10.201.200 19970108042402 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:23:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=33">  Article </a><hr>33/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-121</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-303</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108042444 text/html 9147
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:24:05 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8989
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: [MSG/30312] Yemen Heavy Rain -Forwa
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

 ------------------------

  Ref: DHAGVA - 96/0184

 ------------------------




                               YEMEN - FLOODS
                      DHA-GENEVA SITUATION REPORT NO.6
                                 4 JULY 1996




  IMPACT



  1.  ALTHOUGH THE ASSESSMENT STILL CONTINUES, THE FOLLOWING DAMAGE
  ESTIMATES HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED BY THE GOVERNMENT:

  AFFECTED POPULATION: 124,000
  DEATHS: 324
  MISSING: 108
  HOMELESS FAMILIES: 3,770
  DESTROYED HOUSES: 1,803
  AGRICULTURAL LAND: 40,000 TO 45,000 HECTARES OF TOP SOIL LOSSES
  LIVESTOCK MISSING: OVER 13,000
  FRUIT TREES: OVER 37,000
  WATER PUMPS: 1,357
  WATER PROJECTS: 28
  GENERATORS: 34
  ROADS: 1,068 KM
  BRIDGES: 21
  HEALTH CENTRES: 32
  SCHOOLS: 38.

  NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE

  2.  THE GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES CONTINUE DISTRIBUTION OF
  RELIEF ITEMS, DRUGS AND FOOD IN ALL AFFECTED AREAS. LOCAL
  AUTHORITIES HAVE STARTED THE RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WATER PUMPS AND
  GENERATORS. EMERGENCY ROAD REPAIR OF THE MAIN TARMAC AND RURAL
  ROADS IS IN PROGRESS.

  3.  THE COORDINATING BODY WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT IS THE NEWLY
  ESTABLISHED DISASTER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE IN THE MINISTRY OF
  PLANNING. IT WORKS IN CLOSE COOPERATION WITH THE ON-SITE OPERATIONS
  COORDINATION CENTRE (OSOCC) AT THE UNDP OFFICE IN SANA'A. THE OSOCC
  IS CONTINUING ITS EFFORTS TO ENSURE EFFICIENT AND TIMELY USE OF
  DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS. IT HAS DEVELOPED PROJECT PLANS FOR 22
  EMERGENCY OPERATIONS, SOME OF WHICH ARE BEING IMPLEMENTED BY UNDP
  AND NGOS, OTHERS ARE UNDER NEGOTIATION WITH RESPONSIBLE
  GOVERNORATES AND PRIVATE CONTRACTORS. THE OSOCC ALSO ARRANGES
  LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR TRANSPORT AND STORAGE OF INCOMING RELIEF
  SHIPMENTS IN SANA'A IN COOPERATION WITH THE GOVERNMENTAL DISASTER
  MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.

  4.  SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF RELIEF ITEMS, DRUGS AND FOOD ARE STILL
  BEING DELIVERED TO ALL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS OF THE COUNTRY BY THE
  DONOR COMMUNITY AND ARE DISTRIBUTED BY THE GOVERNMENT, THE YEMENI
  RED CRESCENT SOCIETY, UN AGENCIES AND NGOS, UNDER THE OVERALL
  COORDINATION OF THE GOVERNMENTAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE AND
  THE OSOCC.

  5.  THE NGOS CARE INTERNATIONAL AND OXFAM ARE CARRYING OUT WATER
  TANKER OPERATIONS AND RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS IN
  SHABWA. UNDP IS CONTRACTING PRIVATE COMPANIES FOR DELIVERY OF PUMPS
  AND GENERATORS TO MAREB AND SHABWA AS WELL AS DE-SILTING OF
  IRRIGATION CHANNELS IN HADRAMAUT. THE RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WATER
  SUPPLY SYSTEMS IN ATAQ/SHABWA AND MAIFA/HADRAMAUT WILL ALSO BE
  FINANCED WITH DONOR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS.

  6.  TWO EXPERTS PROVIDED BY THE SWISS DISASTER RELIEF UNIT THROUGH
  DHA ARRIVED IN SANA'A ON 3 JULY TO STRENGTHEN THE OSSOC AND PROVIDE
  TECHNICAL INPUTS FOR EMERGENCY REPAIR AND INITIAL REHABILITATION OF
  ROADS, BRIDGES  AS WELL AS POWER SUPPLY SYSTEMS. THREE WATER
  ENGINEERING EXPERTS MADE AVAILABLE BY THE GERMAN TECHNICAL SUPPORT
  SERVICE ALSO ARRIVED IN SANA'A ON 3 JULY.

  REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE DURING THE EMERGENCY
  PHASE

  7.  AS A RESULT OF THE WORK OF THE DISASTER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
  AND THE OSOCC, A MORE COMPLETE OVERVIEW OF ONGOING OPERATIONS AND
  OUTSTANDING NEEDS IS NOW AVAILABLE. TAKING INTO ACCOUNT FUNDS
  ALREADY PLEDGED BY THE INTERNATIONAL DONOR COMMUNITY, FURTHER CASH
  CONTRIBUTIONS ARE URGENTLY REQUIRED TO MEET THE SHORTFALL FOR
  -     RENTAL OF WATER TRUCKS
  -     RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS (DRILLING OF WELLS,
        CONNECTING PIPEWORK, WATER TOWERS, WATER TANKS)
  -     PURCHASE OF WATER PUMPS ON THE LOCAL MARKET
  -     PURCHASE OF GABIONS TO RE-ESTABLISH EMBANKMENTS FOR
        PROTECTION OF VILLAGES AND FARMLAND FROM FURTHER DAMAGE IN
  THE
        UPCOMING WET SEASON (JULY TO SEPTEMBER)
  -     URGENT ROAD REPAIR (TARMAC AND RURAL).

  THE ESTIMATED AMOUNT OF CASH CONTRIBUTIONS REQUIRED IS USD
  3,000,000.

  8.  THERE IS STILL AN URGENT NEED FOR IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS IN
  TERMS OF MEDICAL SUPPLIES, GENERAL RELIEF ITEMS (FOOD, BLANKETS),
  TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT (WATER PUMPS, POWER GENERATORS, ETC.), AND
  BUILDING MATERIAL (GABIONS AND BINDING WIRE, ISOLATION SHEETING,
  WATER PIPES). DONORS CONSIDERING IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS ARE KINDLY
  REQUESTED TO CONFER WITH DHA.

  REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR RECONSTRUCTION

  9.  THE MAGNITUDE OF DEVASTATION TO YEMEN'S INFRASTRUCTURE AND
  NATURAL ASSETS BECOMES INCREASINGLY EVIDENT AS DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS
  ARE EVALUATED AND CONTINUOUSLY UPDATED.  UNDP AND DHA WOULD LIKE TO
  DRAW THE ATTENTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO THE
  DESTRUCTIVE IMPACT OF THE FLOODS ON AGRICULTURAL LAND AND
  INFRASTRUCTURE AND TO THE NEEDS FOR REHABILITATION AND
  RECONSTRUCTION OF THE DISASTER-STRUCK REGIONS. IT IS CURRENTLY
  ESTIMATED THAT A TOTAL AMOUNT OF USD 1.2 BILLION WILL BE REQUIRED
  FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND IN ORDER TO PROTECT THE COUNTRY FROM FURTHER
  DEVASTATION WHICH COULD BE CAUSED BY EVEN AVERAGE RAINFALL IN THE
  UPCOMING RAINY SEASON.

  10.  THE LOSS OF 40-45,000 HECTARES OF TOP SOIL (IN CERTAIN AREAS
  UP TO 7 M) WHICH HAS BEEN RECLAIMED  OVER DECADES AND, IN SOME
  AREAS, OVER CENTURIES, HAS DISPLACED MANY TRIBES FROM THEIR
  ANCESTRAL LANDS, LEADING TO A UNIQUE KIND OF DISPLACEMENT. 151
  WATER SYSTEMS HAVE  DISAPPEARED, LEAVING THE ENTIRE SHABWA
  GOVERNORATE WITH ALMOST NO WATER SUPPLY AT ALL. 25 KM OF IRRIGATION
  CANALS WERE FILLED WITH SAND OR DESTROYED AND 470 KM OF TARMAC ROAD
  SEVERELY AFFECTED, RESULTING IN THE COLLAPSE OF MAJOR CONCRETE
  BRIDGES. DAMAGE TO RURAL ACCESS ROADS IS STILL UNDER ASSESSMENT.
  POWER SUPPLY SYSTEMS WERE WIDELY AFFECTED AND TRANSMISSION LINES
  AND POLES WASHED AWAY IN THE THOUSANDS. IN MANY AREAS, THE
  PROTECTING EMBANKMENTS OF  VILLAGES AND FARMLAND HAVE BEEN ERASED
  BY THE FLOODS. THE RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADS, DAMS, EMBANKMENTS AND
  WATER AS WELL AS ELECTRICITY SUPPLY SYSTEMS ARE A HIGH PRIORITY
  NEED DURING THE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PHASE.

  CONTRIBUTIONS AND PLEDGES

  11.  CONTRIBUTIONS ANNOUNCED TO DHA SINCE SITREP 5 OF 28 JUNE 1996
  ARE LISTED BELOW.
  DONOR                DESCRIPTION                       VALUE IN USD

  CANADA               CASH THROUGH UN SYSTEM                 15,000
  FRANCE               CASH THROUGH UNDP                      19,000
  GERMANY              DM 30,000 THROUGH EMBASSY              19,607
                       DM 25,000 THROUGH NGO
                       JOHANNITER-UNFALL-HILFE
                       FOR AIRLIFT OF RELIEF SUPPLIES         16,333
  SPAIN                IN-KIND CONTRIBUTION OF FOOD, MEDICAL
                       SUPPLIES, COOKING UTENSILS
                       WATER TANKS, SHELTER,
                       INCLUDING TRANSPORT                    39,000
  UNITED KINGDOM       PDS 50,000 THROUGH DHA FOR
                       TECHNICAL ADVISORY SERVICES AND
                       RUNNING COSTS OF OSOCC                 77,000
  ARAB SECRETARIAT     CASH THROUGH IFRC                      10,000
  CARE INTERNATIONAL   CASH FOR SHABWA WATER PROJECT          17,500
  OXFAM                WATER SYSTEM EQUIPMENT,
                       WATER ENGINEER FOR 1 MONTH             70,000
  RC OF UNITED ARAB
  EMIRATES             CASH THROUGH IFRC                      15,000


  12.   DHA IS PREPARED TO SERVE AS A CHANNEL FOR CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
  TO BE USED DURING THE IMMEDIATE RELIEF PHASE. FUNDS ARE SPENT IN
  COORDINATION WITH RELEVANT ORGANIZATIONS OF THE UN SYSTEM, AND DHA
  PROVIDES DONOR GOVERNMENTS WITH WRITTEN CONFIRMATION ON UTILIZATION
  OF FUNDS CONTRIBUTED.

  13.  FUNDS SHOULD BE TRANSFERRED TO DHA ACCOUNT NO. CO.590.160.1 AT
  SWISS BANK CORPORATION, CASE POSTALE 2770, CH-1211 GENEVA 2, WITH
  REFERENCE: YEMEN - FLOODS, DHA GENEVA.

    14.   FOR COORDINATION PURPOSES, DONORS ARE REQUESTED TO INFORM
    DHA GENEVA, AS INDICATED BELOW, OF BILATERAL RELIEF
    MISSIONS/PLEDGES/CONTRIBUTIONS AND THEIR CORRESPONDING VALUE BY
    ITEM.

    TELEPHONE NO. +41-22-917.12.34
    IN CASE OF EMERGENCY ONLY: TEL. +41-22-917.20.10
    DESK OFFICER: MS. S. METZNER-STRACK, DIRECT TEL. +41-22-917.21.44
    PRESS TO CONTACT: MS. M. MOULIN-ACEVEDO, DIRECT TEL.
    +41-22-917.28.56
    TELEX: 414242 DHA CH
    FAX: +41-22-917.00.23
    EMAIL: DHAGVA AT DHA.UNICC.ORG

    DPR 310 ROY'96 (1)





                   = DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS +

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>33/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-122</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-341</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c34 194.10.201.200 19970108042530 text/html 1869
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:24:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1711
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
the gun himself, intending that it should be fired this week in Florence.
For he was determined that Bosnians, too, must have their chance to vote,
sooner rather than later, and notwithstanding such scruples as the OSCE
might entertain about the conditions in which they would do SO.  Nor
were the presidents (and official media) of Croatia and Serbia in any
doubt that the race had effectively begun.  They had done their bits to
- - - -
make sure.

Media in Armija-controlled parts of the Federation were not SO sure.
Some declared a mis-start, making heavy use of the despatches of New
York Times reporter Chris Hedges.  His assaults on US policy - and on
- - - -
But it is not only fear of Serb unity and might that characterises the
west.  Just as President Tudjman has of late been wont to explain Croatia's
failure to gain admittance to the Council of Europe by referring to west
Europeans' envy of Croatian democracy, SO too do the leaders of Republika
Srpska detect jealousy on the part of their tormentors.  According to
Dragan Miric, speaking at a rally in defence of Karadzic and Mladic
- - - -
televised by TV Srpska on 4 June, "Having failed to defeat us militarily
and exterminate us physically, they are now trying to do SO treacherously,
politically, stealthily, in the western way... When we were practicing
democracy, they were warring with red Indians."
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=34">  Article </a><hr>34/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-123</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B030-383</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108042622 text/html 18045
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:25:33 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 17886
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Bulletin #2, 3-9 June, Bosnian Medi
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:36:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

From: warreport@gn.apc.org (Institute for War & Peace Reporting)
Subject: Bulletin #2, 3-9 June, Bosnian Media Monitoring Project

Monitoring Report #2 - Bulletin of the Institute for War and Peace Reporting
and Media Plan - Elections B&H '96

B&H Media in review: 3-9th June 1996:=20

* media confusion over elections decision=20
* coverage of Mostar elections campaign is thin on the ground - unlike
support for HDZ on Radio Herceg Bosna
* media abuses in Tuzla - aren't there usually two sides to a story?
* international community slated by SRNA
* elections "magazine" begins on BiH TV

Bulletin #2 brings you the first of our weekly monitoring reports on the
media's coverage of political and elections issues  - across the airwaves
and on paper - in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

We will continue to produce weekly monitoring reports over the coming
months.  They are also available in Bosnian.
If you would like to continue receiving them please contact : JENNY PEARCE
 warreport@gn.apc.org  This is one of several mailing lists - any
suggestions as to who else, particularly in government/IGO circles, we might
send these to are gratefully received.

If you require any further information about the project,  please contact:
Jenny Pearce, Project Officer, IWPR, Lancaster House, 33 Islington High St,
London, N1 9LH
+171 713 7130, fax 713 7140  warreport@gn.apc.org 

or Mark Wheeler, Project Director, +387 71 471 392
Current address: IWPR / Media Plan, Musala 5/I, 71000 Sarajevo
Tel/fax (+ 387 71)-663-478 & tel -471-392

>From 10 June our address will be:
Obala Kulina bana 4/I, 71000 Sarajevo
Tel/fax (+ 387 71)-667-735/736   Fax + 387 71 664 377
*********************************************

MONITORING REPORT

I.W.P.R & MEDIA PLAN


ELECTIONS B&H '96



12 June 1996  number 2

The B&H Media Week in Review: 3-9 June

Confusion prevailed in much of the B&H media during the week.  Had
the election starting pistol been fired at the Geneva meeting of the
signatories of the Dayton accords on 2 June, or had it merely been
brought out, admired and possibly cleaned?  Warren Christopher,
speaking for a US administration that knows itself to be in the
throes of an election campaign, apparently planned at least to load
the gun himself, intending that it should be fired this week in Florence.
For he was determined that Bosnians, too, must have their chance to vote,
sooner rather than later, and notwithstanding such scruples as the OSCE
might entertain about the conditions in which they would do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>.  Nor
were the presidents (and official media) of Croatia and Serbia in any
doubt that the race had effectively begun.  They had done their bits to
make sure.

Media in Armija-controlled parts of the Federation were not <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a> sure.
Some declared a mis-start, making heavy use of the despatches of New
York Times reporter Chris Hedges.  His assaults on US policy - and on
the OSCE for kowtowing to Washington - seem to have encouraged second
thoughts about both the desirability and inevitability of elections
before 14 September.

President Izetbegovic, freed from Christopher's Geneva embrace,
appeared on TV B&H's "Dnevnik" on 3 June to advise "Bosnian parties
to boycott the elections in as much as conditions [for them] are not
fulfilled."  Yet the great 8 June  gathering on Zuc hill, celebrating
the fourth anniversary of the Armija's first wartime victory, was
mounted as an SDA election rally.  TV B&H cooperated fully.  "Dnevnik"'s
presenter assessed the crowd as totalling between 90,000 and 100,000
persons.  And although the film clip showed SDA flags and placards,
featured a green flag with star and crescent moon and carried the rhythmic
chants of "Alija! Alija!" as the president arrived, the camera failed
to pan the assembled multitude in a manner which might have lent substance
to the presenter's estimate of their number.

This may not be a campaign about which the president and his party are
altogether happy, but it is a campaign nonetheless, and one in which
Izetbegovic seems determined to exact - and TV B&H to provide - all the
advantages of incumbency.

Things were otherwise in Mostar, despite the fact that municipal and city
elections there are definitely scheduled to take place within the next
three weeks.  Election coverage on local television was conspicuous by
its absence on both banks of the Neretva.  In its sole, 20-word report
on the forthcoming poll, TV (east) Mostar's evening news on 8 June
mentioned only that the ruling SDA had adopted (unnamed) candidates.
Croatian Television Mostar, for its part, broadcast no programmes of its
own during the week owing to a power failure, substituting Croatian
Television's "Dnevnik".

Radio Herceg Bosna, on the other hand, made up for this gap by conspicuou
s demonstrations of fealty to the HDZ, by disregarding the registration
for the elections of the multinational "Association of Citizens for a
United Mostar" and by regularly making disparaging references to events
and conditions on "the Muslim side".

In Republika Srpska, of course, the campaign has been going on for weeks.
The pursuit of Karadzic and Mladic by The Hague Tribunal - and the
accompanying hue and cry inside and outside Bosnia - have given the SDS
no end of opportunities to identify the fates of their leaders and party
with those of their nation and "state".  The media have played their
assigned part, both in covering the frenzied meetings at which the
populace declares its support for and devotion to the alleged war
criminals, and in providing locally convincing explanations for the
behaviour of a preternaturally hostile international community.
As Radio Republika Srpska's "Dnevnik" on 5 June reported SRNA's Paris
correspondent as commenting, "The American Secretary of Sate Warren
Christopher is not insisting on the arrest of Srpska President Radovan
Karadzic and General Ratko Mladic because he thinks they are really
criminals, but in order to get rid of persons for whom the majority of
Srpska citizens would vote in any free and fair election."  On the other
hand, the same oracle also assured his listeners that, "The international
community fears that further efforts to satanise the Serbs, and more
demands that Srpska President Radovan Karadzic and Srpska Army Chief of
Staff Commander Colonel-General Ratko Mladic be arrested and delivered to
The Hague Tribunal, could provoke a general national uprising."
But it is not only fear of Serb unity and might that characterises the
west.  Just as President Tudjman has of late been wont to explain Croatia's
failure to gain admittance to the Council of Europe by referring to west
Europeans' envy of Croatian democracy, <a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> too do the leaders of Republika
Srpska detect jealousy on the part of their tormentors.  According to
Dragan Miric, speaking at a rally in defence of Karadzic and Mladic
televised by TV Srpska on 4 June, "Having failed to defeat us militarily
and exterminate us physically, they are now trying to do <a name=L10004></a><a href=#L10005>so</a> treacherously,
politically, stealthily, in the western way... When we were practicing
democracy, they were warring with red Indians."
Fantasy, however, knows few bounds.  In separate interviews on 11 June,
Admiral Leighton Smith told the BBC World Service and Carl Bildt advised
TV B&H of their shared faith that Bosnian Serbs would themselves turn out
Karadzic and company.  IFOR, according to Leighton Smith, would certainly
not be going after The Hague's most wanted pair.


Media Manipulation in Tuzla

Even before an official polling date has been established, media abuses
are beginning to poison the unofficial electoral contest in Tuzla, Bosnia's
second city. Preferential treatment of political patrons and strategic
omissions by rival broadcasters are clouding the political duel between
Tuzla mayor Selim Beslagic UBSD (Union of Bosnian Social Democrats),
and the SDA ( Party for Democratic Action), which controls the cantonal
government.

Last week's  furore began following a candlelight vigil commemorating the
71 people killed in a Serb artillery attack one year ago. Soon after, a
highly-charged commentary appeared in a local paper, Zmaj od Bosne,
and was read on TV TPK,  cantonal television, claiming that candles were
alien to Islamic tradition and accusing mayor Beslagic of injuring
Muslims' religious sensitivities. Because both these news organisations
are closely aligned with the cantonal SDA, the commentary quickly
ignited passions in Tuzla's polarised political scene. The emotional
riposte came two days later. With the help of the UBSD press centre,
parents of the victims gathered to protest the commentary. They also
issued a joint statement which was read in its entirety on TV Tuzla,
the municipal station which is close to Beslagic. Significantly, neither
station was willing to broadcast the other side of the controversy.

Similar transgressions by Tuzla's broadcasting media were evident
throughout the week of 5 - 10 June, with the rival stations engaging in =20
preferential treatment of their political patrons. TV Tuzla gave blanket =20
coverage to Mayor Beslagic, who appeared no fewer than 15 times in six =20
main news bulletins. The municipal station also failed to provide any =20
coverage in its 5 June "Dnevnik" of a meeting of the district council of =20
the SDA, at which electoral issues were discussed. This was in marked =20
contrast to the station's coverage of two news conferences by the smaller =
=20
MBO (Muslim-Bosnjak Organisation) and Stranka za B&H (Party for Bosnia).

For its part, TV TPK also employed the device of strategic omissions as
well as outright character assassination. One clear example was TPK's
coverage of an 8 June visit to Tuzla by a high-level OSCE delegation. =20
Dropping all pretence of neutrality, TPK led its evening news with the =20
delegation's "protocol" meeting with the cantonal council of the SDA. What =
=20
TPK failed to report was the fact that the OSCE representatives also held =
=20
talks on the same day with Beslagic, at which the forthcoming elections =20
figured prominently. Indeed,  Beslagic appeared in TPK's "Dnevnik" only in =
=20
negative contexts, such as in the aforementioned commentary. Another =20
transgression occurred in TPK's coverage of a Beslagic press conference on =
=20
10 June.  Instead of elaborating the content of the press conference (in =20
which Beslagic re-iterated his criticism of alleged abuses in hiring =20
practices by cantonal authorities), the TPK reporter gave space only to =20
Beslagic's SDA critics. At no point in the broadcast were viewers informed =
=20
about the main issues in the controversy, nor were the positions of all =20
the main players detailed.

Though these examples may seem innocuous in a broader context, they are
disturbing evidence that some journalists are ready to abandon =20
professional scruples for political fealty. Neither side was willing to =20
present the position of political rivals in reasonable terms, and the =20
consequence is a local news scene polarised across party lines. This bodes =
=20
ill for Tuzla's media and citizens when the electoral contest heats up =20
later in the summer.

Similar tactics were employed in RTV Zenica's prominent coverage of the =20
city's SDA mayor. Though the mayor's political affiliation was not =20
mentioned, the intensive reporting of his every move served as a political =
=20
advertisement for the local SDA in much the same way as TV Tuzla's =20
coverage of Mayor Beslagic. Zenica's independent ZETEL was the only =20
station to rise above the fray by offering equal time to each political =20
party that was active in the week.

PRESS ARTICLES RELATING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO THE  1996 ELECTIONS
Period of coverage:
* daily newspapers,  28 May - 9 June1996
* weekly, fortnightly and monthly publications appearing in the same period.

Dailies: Oslobodjenje, Vecernje Novine, Dnevni Avaz
Weeklies: Svijet, Ljiljan, Hrvatska Rijec
Fortnightlies and monthlies: Slobodna Bosna, Focus, Dani.

****************************************************************************
*********************************
title         issues    number      number of articles   most common
                     of articles       per issue         formats

dailies
Oslobodjenje     11           35            2 - 5      articles reports and
                                                       brief news items
Vecernje novine  11           33            1 - 5      articles reports and
                                                       brief news items
Dnevni Avaz      11           39           up to 6     articles brief
                                                       news items and      =
=20
                                                       reports
weeklies, fortnightlies and monthlies
Svijet           3            3            1           commentaries
Ljiljan          3            6           0 - 3        commentaries
Focus            2            1           0 - 1        commentary
Slobodna Bosna   2            2 (indirect)1    caricatures
Dani             1            3           3            brief notes,=
 interview
Hrvatska rijec   2            2           2            commentaries
****************************************************************************
**********************************

Media Briefs

Radio Studio 99, Sarajevo

"Hyde Park", the popular, twice-weekly phone-in programme had
problems with its telephones last week.  Lines into the studio were =20
blocked on several occasions on 4 June (when the subject for discussion =20
was the existence of two armies in the Federation) and cut off completely =
=20
on 6 June, forcing the abandonment of the scheduled debate on plans to =20
send an official B&H delegation to Belgrade for negotiations on the =20
establishment of relations with Serbia.  The host remarked on the latter =20
date that the occurrence was hardly accidental, and that Studio 99 was =20
disliked by the ruling clique.

The presenter of this show discourages his anonymous callers from
engaging in party politics, but numerous complaints about the current =20
political order are voiced.  One caller on 4 June asked, "Where are we =20
atheists supposed to go - to Albania?"  Another exclaimed, "What sort of =20
common army!  We've got to kill all the Ustase.  If we could destroy the =20
+etniks, then we can get rid of the Ustase as well.  I'm ready to be the =20
first to take up my rifle."  He was immediately answered by another =20
caller: "I cannot agree with the previous listener who says all Ustase =20
should be killed.  We must and we can live together."
Independent Television Studio 99, Sarajevo

Unlike "Hyde Park" on radio, Studio 99's principal television newscast,
"Oko 22", shows no tendency either to challenge or slight the ruling SDA.  =
=20
President Izetbegovic and other high officials receive full and uncritical =
=20
coverage of their every ceremonial appearance and pronouncement, =20
regardless of whether or not they are assuming state or party roles.  =20
Opposition parties and leaders, on the other hand, appear to receive =20
adequate coverage of their press conferences and speeches.

TV B&H

State television began to air on 3 June its weekly, one-hour,
prime-time election magazine.  Parties are allowed 4.5 minutes to state =20
their cases.  Three minor parties (including that of Mrs Amila Omersoftic, =
=20
the director of RTV B&H) and an independent candidate took part in the =20
first  programme.  The broadcast also covers party press conferences.  =20
These, with one exception during the week under review (that of the Social =
=20
Democrats on 5 June), are excluded from the 19.30 "Dnevnik".

Besides affording representatives of the ruling party abundant time on =20
screen in their state roles, TV B&H reporters and presenters seemingly =20
feel compelled to "correct" the statements and complaints even of the =20
SDA's Federation partners.  Thus, on 6 June, following a "Dnevnik" report =
=20
on the Serb Civic Council's (SGV) allegation that government officials are =
=20
permitting refugees to displace Serbs from their homes in the Sarajevo =20
suburbs, the reporter asked, "How come they didn't say why these people =20
are moving into Serb houses?"

An even clearer example of such practice was offered in the same =20
newscast's coverage of Federation Defence Minister Vladimir Soljic's press =
=20
conference at which he accused the Bosnjak side of obstructing the passage =
=20
of the new defence law.  Using either voice-overs or taking the minister's =
=20
actual words out of context, a false impression of =E8olji=B5's statement=
 was =20
created, making it appear that his strictures were not in fact addressed =20
to the SDA's parliamentary deputies.

Technical Note
Owing to communications difficulties, no monitoring report was received =20
from Banja Luka this week.

Issued by I.W.P.R. and MEDIA PLAN,  Obala Kulina bana 4/I, 71000 Sarajevo, =
=20
B&H
Tel/fax 071-667-735/736 and 663-478
E-mail: MEDIAPLAN_ZU@ZAMIR-SA.ztn.apc.org




INSTITUTE FOR WAR & PEACE REPORTING  warreport@gn.apc.org 


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>34/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-124</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-13</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c35 194.10.201.200 19970108042700 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:26:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=35">  Article </a><hr>35/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-125</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-57</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108042742 text/html 9809
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:27:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9651
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: EELM: ALBANIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I,
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:37:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

EAST EUROPEAN LEGISLATIVE MONITOR

ALBANIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I, no. 3

THE BILLS
No bills due to the General Election on May 26, 1996

NEW LAWS
No laws due to the General Election on May 26, 1996

POLITICAL PARTIES
Controversy over Violations Mars Election

FACTS
Republic of Albania

Constitution: The provisional "Constitutional Laws of the Republic  
ofAlbania" (1993) remains in force during the drafting of a permanent  
charterto replace the 1976 Constitution.

Head of State: Sali Berisha

Government: Parliament was dissolved on March 31, 1996.   
Parliamentaryelections held on May 26, 1996. Prior to dissolution, the DP  
led thegovernment coalition.

Parliament: Unicameral; 140 members.

Major Parties in Previous Parliament: Democratic Party (DP), 84  
seats;Socialist Party (SP), 38 seats; Social Democrats (SD), 7 seats;  
Party ofthe Democratic Alliance (PDA), 6 seats.

Last Parliamentary Elections/Next: May 26, 1996/Rescheduling of  
pollcurrently under consideration

Parliamentary Electoral Formula: Two-tiers: Lower-tier: 115 single- 
memberdistricts, majority vote with multiple rounds; Upper-tier: One  
nation-wide,multi-member, supplemental district with representation based  
on PR;Threshold: Upper tier, 4 percent; Lower tier, 12 percent.

Legislative Procedure: Initiative: President, government, any  
deputy,20,000 citizens; Adoption requirements for regular bills: Majority  
ofdeputies present, generally one reading; President has no veto.

POLITICAL PARTIES

On May 26, 1996, Albanians participated in the country's third  
freeelections since the downfall of Communism in 1990. The Albanian  
electorateexpected these elections impatiently because, for most people,  
freeelections meant a consolidation of the democratic processes in  
Albania.But, unfortunately, deviations from the laws promulgated by the  
ruling DP,and violations of basic human rights before, during, and after  
electionsthreatened the election's legitimacy and shook the public's  
belief in thecontinuation of the democratization process. After biased  
coverage bystate-controlled TV, a number of physical attacks on opposition  
organizers,voting list and counting fraud, alteration and invalidation of  
ballots, andthe presence of secret police and riot police at the polls, it  
is clearthat the voters were denied the opportunity to elect freely their  
futureGovernment.
        Prior to the election campaign, opposition parties attempted  
towarn the public and the international community of the possibility  
ofelection fraud by Berisha and the DP (in his post as the president  
Berishahas openly supported the DP). This fear was based on four years  
ofcontinuous attempts by the state to silence,  first, politicians of  
theopposition parties and, later, the independent voices in the media, and  
thejudiciary. Despite these warnings, most of the foreign figures  
visitingAlbania prior to election day supported President Berisha. Many  
analystsexplained Western Europe's and USA's "deafness" to the pre- 
election eventsas a result of Albania's strategic position in the  
"boiling'' Balkans. Butelection day demonstrated that President Berisha  
misunderstood the West'ssupport for a "win at all costs" message.         
Election day began with flagrant manipulations made by the DPoffice  
holders in key positions of the election commissions. Thesecommissions  
were established to organise the elections in conformity withthe recently  
adopted election law. The commission's opposition partymembers were  
removed from the polls and, in some cases, were arrested andbeaten by the  
police. Some commission members reported seeing a largenumber of ballots  
put into the ballot boxes before the polls opened.International observers  
from OSCE reported that, in some cases, the numberof the ballots cast  
exceeded the number of the signatures on the voterslists and that people  
without identification were reported to have votedmore than once.  
Depending on the location, some polling stations remainedopen beyond the  
closing time, while others closed early.
        Three hours prior to the end of balloting, the opposition  
partiesdecided to withdraw from the elections. President Berisha  
interpreted thewithdrawal as a triumph of the DP. "We stuck the last nail  
in the redcoffin of Communism!" he declared, suggesting that the present  
Albanianopposition parties are made up of former communists. The SP, the  
largestopposition party in Albania, is composed of a large number offormer- 
communists. But the opposition reminded the president that the DPhas  
approximately the same number of former communists as the SP and thathe is  
a former-communist himself (he served for more than 20 years as ahigh  
functionary of the Communist Party). The opposition went on to remindthe  
president that it was not only the SP that withdrew from the elections,but  
also the PDA, which is composed of a majority of the intellectuals  
whoinitiated the democratic processes in Albania, the SD, the Right  
DemocraticParty (RDP), and the Human Rights Party (HRP)(known as the party  
of theGreek minority), among others.
        The day after the elections, the DP and its supporters  
celebratedtheir victory in Tirana's central plaza. The State Election  
Commission,after having been abandoned by members of the opposition  
parties, declaredthat the DP had won 112 of the 115 available  
parliamentary seats in directballoting.  Of the three remaining seats, the  
SP won 1, the Human RightsParty also won 1 and the other was disputed by  
the SP and the DPcandidates.
        This absurd victory confused people, even those that voted for  
theDP. The opposition called it a "pyrrhic victory," many citizens  
remainedinside their houses while the fanatic supporters of Berisha  
celebratedunder a huge fireworks display above the capital.
        The next day the opposition parties asked for permission to hold  
arally to reject the outcome of the elections and demand new elections.  
Itsrequest was denied on the basis that the rally would block traffic.  
Despitethe denial, hundreds of opposition supporters managed to get  
through policebarricades and gather in the middle of the central square.  
The riot police,many of them in plain clothes, were ordered by the  
president to crush thegathering. They charged the protesters, beat them  
with rubber batons, andsome victims reported the use of gas. The police  
stopped momentarily whenconfronted by the leaders of the December 1990  
revolution: Gramoz Pashko,Neritan Ceka, Arben Imami, and Blendi Gonxhe, to  
name but a few, but, aftera second order was given to disperse the crowd,  
even they were beaten andhauled away in vans to police stations. Members  
of the Albanian and foreign media and cameramen filming the melee from the  
stairs of a large hotelwere not spared. The journalist, Bardhok Lala of  
the "Dita Informacion," anindependent Albanian newspaper, was beaten close  
to death. Gianfranco Staraand Spiro Ilo, both of the Associated Press, and  
Eduardo Del Campo of "ElMundo," were also beaten, though not as severely.  
Almost all cameras wereconfiscated and destroyed. The international  
observers, who had, untilthen, remained silent regarding the voting  
irregularities, began to speakout. The opposition leaders issued a  
statement declaring that  Albania isexperiencing the beginning of another  
dictatorship. Neither these facts,nor a hunger strike by more than 100  
former MPs and candidates, influencedBerisha to cancel the second round of  
balloting which took place June 2 inthe presence of DP commission members.
        In the meantime, denouncements of the May 26 elections began,  
firstthe Helsinki Human Rights Watch issues a statement and then the US  
StateDepartment followed suit. The denouncements of many other  
monitoringorganisations were soon issued.
        The final election results in percentages are still  
undeclared,but, after two rounds, the following results have been declared  
by theelection commission:

DP: 101 seats
SP: 5 seats
Republican Party: 2 seats
Nationalist Party: 1 seat
HRP: 2 seats
In four electoral districts new balloting will be held.

        The HRP's winning candidates rejected their seats in Parliament  
andtwo other candidates from the HRP have refused to participate in the  
secondround of balloting. The opposition parties have demanded new  
elections, andSP candidates staged a temporary hunger strike. The general  
populationstill appears to be confused, even those who voted for DP  
candidates.  TheDP's leader, Tritan Shehu, declared in a TV interview that  
the newParliament will function even if the opposition deputies do not  
take theirseats.
        Different political analysts in Tirana during these  
tumultuousdays, suggested that these elections have exposed the Berisha  
governmentfor the anti-democratic regime that it is and it will be a long  
time beforea truly democratic government is able to replace it.

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>35/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-126</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-79</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c36 194.10.201.200 19970108042821 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:27:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=36">  Article </a><hr>36/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-127</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-117</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108042908 text/html 15754
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:28:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15595
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: EELM: BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996, vol. I
Date: 11 Jul 1996 03:37:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

EAST EUROPEAN LEGISLATIVE MONITOR

BULGARIA -- JUNE 1996 vol. 1, no. 3

BILLS
Amendment to the Law "On Bulgarian Citizenship"Coat of Arms
Amendment to the Law "On Trading"
Notary Services

NEW LAWS
State Property
State Protection of Deposits and AccountsClean Ambient Air
Update: Municipal Property
Update: Money Laundering
Update: Election of President
Update: Banks and Founding Act

POLITICAL PARTIES

FACTS
Republic of Bulgaria

Constitution: Ratified July 1991, no major revisions likely in the  
nearfuture.

Head of State: Zhelyu Zhelev.

Government: Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) - Zhan Videnov, Prime Minister.

Parliament: Unicameral; 240 members.

Major parties in Parliament: Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), 125  
seats;Union Of Democratic Forces (UDF), 69 seats; Movement for Rights  
andFreedoms (MRF), 15 seats; People's Union (PU), 18 seats; Bulgarian  
BusinessBloc (BBB), 13 seats.

Last Parliamentary Elections/Next: December 1994/ December 1998.

Parliamentary Electoral Formula:  4 percent threshold; 31 districts  
withtwo representation formulas, parties: PR d'Hondt Formula,  
Independentcandidates: Hare Quota (Q=V/M), Candidates who receive quota  
gainrepresentation.

Legislative Procedure. Initiative: Government, any deputy;  
Adoptionrequirements for regular bills: Majority of deputies present on  
twoseparate readings; Amendments: Introduced only on second  
reading;Presidential veto requires majority of all members to override.


BILLS

The bill ON THE AMENDMENT TO THE LAW "ON BULGARIAN CITIZENSHIP"   
wassubmitted by members of the BSP parliamentary faction. The key text in  
theamendment reads: "A Bulgarian citizen by birth is anyone born of at  
leastone parent holding Bulgarian citizenship, regardless of the place and  
timeof his or her birth." The amendment provides an interpretation of  
theConstitution that relies on a potential citizen's parentage, rather  
thanhis or her place of birth.
        The Constitution stipulates that:
        "A Bulgarian citizen shall be anyone born of at least one  
parentholding Bulgarian citizenship, or born on the territory of the  
Republic ofBulgaria, unless he or she has acquired other citizenship by  
birth" (Art.25.1).
        The amendment could make a decisive impact on the  
upcomingpresidential election, since citizenship is one of the  
constitutionallymandated requirements for the presidency. According to the  
Constitution,"any natural-born Bulgarian citizen over 40 years of age and  
qualified tobe elected to the National Assembly, who has resided in the  
country for thefive years preceding the election, shall be eligible for  
the office of thePresident" (Art. 93.2). The most directly affected  
individual is thecurrent Minister of Foreign Affairs, Georgi Pirinski, a  
potential BSPcandidate for president. Since Pirinski was born in the USA  
and thus isentitled to US citizenship by virtue of his place of birth, he  
would beineligible under a strict reading of the Constitution. The  
amendment wouldremove this impediment.

The bill ON COAT OF ARMS was submitted by the cabinet and had its  
firstreading May 16. Since the opposition had already left the plenary  
session,only 124 deputies voted and it passed the first reading with 122  
votes.There were three other versions of the bill, but only the text  
submitted bythe council of ministers was passed.
        The disagreements centered around the question of whether a  
crownshould be part of the coat of arms. The relevant constitutional  
provisionspecifies only that "the coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria  
shalldepict a gold lion rampant on a dark red shield" (Art. 164).
        The bill submitted by the council of ministers included a  
strictinterpretation of this provision--i.e., the coat of arms should  
include noadditional symbols.
        Some deputies argued for the restoration of the prewar royal  
coatof arms, while others were in favor of different variations on the  
crownedlion theme. A third group opposed any version of the coat of arms  
includinga crown, since they identified it with the monarchy.
        Those deputies who were in favor of the inclusion of the crown  
hadtheir hand strengthened by a decision of the Constitutional Court. On  
April4, 1994, the Court handed down a binding decision interpreting  
theconstitutional provision for the coat of arms (three of the 12  
justicessigning the decision filed dissenting opinions). According to the  
Court,additional symbols--not solely those specified in the  
constitutionaltext--may be included in the coat of arms.
        Passage of this bill would resolve a five-year debate on the  
issue.Despite several attempts, the parties have thus far been unable to  
reach aconsensus decision. In December 1995, BSP, People's Union, and MRF  
almostreached a compromise, but UDF refused to support it. Eventually, BSP  
alsolost its initial will to reach a solution, insisting that a crown may  
onlybe included on the coat of arms via a constitutional amendment.  
However,some of the BSP MPs are ready to accept the inclusion of a crown  
in orderto finally reach a broad consensus decision. Thus the passage of  
the billon a second reading will probably face considerable delay, despite  
pressurefrom the cabinet for quick legislative action.

The bill ON AMENDMENT TO THE "TRADING LAW" was submitted by the council  
ofministers and passed on the first reading on May 22. It  
introducesamendments to the part of the Trading Law that regulates  
businesstransactions. It regulates 14 basic types of business  
transactions: sales,commissioner's and shipping contracts, transportation  
contracts, insurance,leasing, bills of exchange, contracts for current  
accounts, licensingcontracts, bank transactions, and deposits in public  
warehouses. Anotherprovision stipulates that limited liability firms are  
to publishinformation about decreases in the value of their stock,  
liquidation oftheir assets, or bankruptcy, only in the State Gazette. This  
bill is a steptowards specifying and finalizing a number of provisions in  
the trading lawcurrently in force.

A bill ON NOTARY SERVICES was introduced by the council of ministers.  
Thebill's main purpose is to improve legal services by making  
notaryprocedures more effective and legally secure. The bill is also meant  
toincrease tax revenues and decrease state expenditures for  
notaryactivities; and to stabilize the real estate market. The bill  
regulates thenotary profession's organization and taxation; it also  
decentralizes andupdates current notary activities.
        If the bill is enacted, Bulgaria will join the international  
systemof Latin notaries. The institution of private notaries will be  
introduced,removing the institution from the Ministry of Justice. The bill  
alsoenvisages the establishment of a Notary Chamber and a Register of  
theNotary Chamber; these are unprecedented in the Bulgarian legal  
system.Notaries would be appointed through a competitive hiring process.  
Potentialnotaries would have to meet the following prerequisites to apply:
1. At least two years' experience as a lawyer;2. Bulgarian citizenship;
3. Under 60 years of age;
4. No criminal record;
5. Never declared bankruptcy.


NEW LAWS

The law ON STATE PROPERTY was submitted by the cabinet, passed May 8,  
andenacted June 1. The law regulates the purchase, management, and  
disposal ofreal estate and movable property belonging to the state.
        The law provides an interpretation of the Constitution (Art. 17- 
18)that divides state property into two categories; state public property  
andstate private property. The law regulates the differences in the  
disposaland management of these two types. Public real estate belonging to  
thestate may not be rented, purchased, or used for economic activities  
withthird persons. Real estate which is private property of the state may  
berented for up to five years; it is to be put up for auction in  
accordancewith terms and procedures specified by the Council of Ministers.  
The lawalso specifies terms for cancellation of such rent contracts.
        The law also regulates other transfers of rights in state  
privateproperty--purchase, exchange, partition, establishment of the right  
of use,the law specifies that such a right may not exceed ten years), and  
licenseto build on state land. The surveillance and certification of  
stateproperty is regulated. The law creates a special office of state  
propertywithin the regional governors' offices, as well. Similar offices  
may alsobe established within the ministries and other state agencies in  
accordancewith the law.
        Another provision regulates the state's power of eminent  
domain.The state may forcibly expropriate property, provided that its  
needs cannotbe otherwise met and after fair compensation--either monetary  
compensationequaling the market value of the property or another piece of   
real estateof equal value--has been rendered. The seizure of the property  
is carriedout via an order for expropriation issued by the regional  
governor. Theowner has the right to appeal the order in court within 30  
days. The termsfor cancellation of the expropriation are also enumerated  
in the law.        The most hotly debated provisions were those defining  
the terms ofexpropriation in cases when the owners are unwilling to sell  
their realestate to the state. The Minister of Justice proposed a  
provisionstipulating that the expropriation order in such cases is issued  
by a courtrather than the regional governor.

The law ON CLEAN AIR, submitted by the cabinet, regulates air  
qualitylevels and the means of measuring air quality, as well as legal  
rights andduties related to the control, management, and maintenance of  
air quality.The law also specifies the sources of pollution subject to the  
law.
        The limits on the concentration of noxious compounds in the air  
aredefined jointly by the Minister of the Environment and the Minister  
ofHealth. In making their determination, the ministers are to take  
intoaccount the technical capacity of the polluting actor as well as  
currentstate-of-the-art technology for reducing pollution. Authorities may  
createtemporary standards (valid for five years) if stable criteria for  
apermanent standard cannot be obtained. The lion's share of  
theparliamentary debate focused on which agency was to create these  
temporarystandards. The law also allows individual municipalities to  
introduce morestringent restrictions than those imposed by the national  
authorities.
        The law mandates that regulation of pollution from motor  
vehiclesmust take not only the state of the art in emission control  
intoconsideration, but also the economic impact of imposing the  
standard.Restrictions on agricultural production on land adjoining roads  
are alsoenvisaged.
        The law contains further provisions specifying the enforcement  
ofair quality standards. It mandates access to information about the  
qualityof air and defines the authority of each controlling agency.  
Municipalauthorities are to organize and regulate traffic in order to  
reduce airpollution. The law also provides for penalties for the  
importation orproduction of fuels containing a higher percentage of  
pollutants thanallowed by law. Enterprises currently polluting the air,  
waters and soilare required to install anti-emission equipment--funding is  
to be takenfrom the national or municipal budget.

The law ON STATE PROTECTION OF DEPOSITS AND ACCOUNTS WITH COMMERCIAL  
BANKSSUBJECT TO BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS INITIATED BY PETITION OF THE   
BULGARIANNATIONAL BANK (BNB) was submitted by the cabinet.  Due to a  
perception thatthe banking system is in a state of severe crisis and that  
the people'sdistrust of the banks is growing, this law was passed with  
alacrity.
        The law requires the state to guarantee the accounts of  
naturalpersons in full and stipulates that the state will guarantee 50  
percent ofthe funds in legal persons' accounts. The law does not apply to  
theaccounts and deposits of: financial institutions, members of managing  
andsupervising boards of the bank, or shareholders with more than 1  
percent ofthe votes at the bank's shareholders meetings, nor the spouses  
or offspringof such persons.
        A special fund to enable the state to insure deposits and  
accountsis to be created by the issue of state bonds. The fund is to be  
supervisedby the Minister of Finance. When a bank files a claim for  
bankruptcy, theMinister of Finance is to attach the property of individual  
members of thebank's governing bodies. The BNB is then to request the  
Attorney General toinstigate a preliminary investigation of the officials  
who are perceived tohave contributed to the bank's failure.
        The law outlines the procedures for creating bankruptcy  
accountsfor eligible account holders. For natural persons'  lev  
(Bulgariancurrency) accounts and for legal persons'  lev and hard-currency  
accounts,the State Savings Bank automatically opens new  lev accounts. For  
naturalpersons' hard-currency accounts, the Governor of the BNB and the  
Ministerof Finance contract with a trading bank to automatically open such  
accountsas they are needed. The new accounts are opened the day after the  
BNBinitiates a bankruptcy procedure. Liabilities to the bank are deduced  
fromthe new accounts of natural persons--for legal persons, these  
liabilitiesare deduced from that half of their accounts, which is  
guaranteed by thestate.
        The law imposes restrictions on account holders' access to  
thefunds in their new accounts. Natural persons can access their  lev  
accountsthree days after the 15-day term for processing the documents for  
thetransfer of their accounts, while legal persons may access their   
levaccounts after a 30-day waiting period. Natural persons can access  
25percent of the money in their hard-currency accounts after a period of  
sixmonths. The law provides an exemption from these restrictions forhard- 
currency accounts, when the money is needed for medical treatmentabroad-- 
however, in such cases a special document must be obtained from  
theMinister of Finance.
        The law will apply until a special law for protection of  
depositsand accounts is passed and enacted. Although there was a general  
consensuson the necessity for the type of provisional law which was  
passed, theopposition insisted that the accounts and deposits of legal  
persons andnon-profit organizations should be fully guaranteed as well.  
The oppositionalso demanded the establishment of a National Bank Insurance  
Institute,rather than the special fund provided for in the law. Since  
their proposalswere rejected, the opposition deputies declared their  
intention to attackthe law's constitutionality in the Constitutional  
Court.


## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>36/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-128</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-164</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c37 194.10.201.200 19970108042954 text/html 2316
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:29:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2158
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
fair elections will now require nothing short of a miracle, whether =20
invoked through IFOR or Our Lady of Medjugorje.

The media scene in B&H is not SO inimical to the electoral process as are =
=20
the continuing failures to ensure freedom of movement, the return of =20
- - - -
constructed of reinforced concrete.  But a state made like this: with =20
support for the people who began to lead that state, with support for the =
=20
people who must strengthen that state, SO that it becomes the true Serbian =
=20
homeland (matica)."
- - - -

"Dnevnik" also featured the same day an attack by Zvornik MP J. Mijatovic =
=20
on the "the SO-CALLED peace-making parties who are supporting the idea of =
=20
living together again with the Muslims...and want to merge Srpska into an =
- - - -
17 June to the announcement by the president of the Serbian National =20
Renewal, Mirko Jovic, that his party would abstain from the elections in =20
RS, but with a summons to "Serbian state-creating parties" to make the =20
same decision, "SO as to forge a united Serbian list against all enemies =20
of Republika Srpska."

- - - -
licenced dissident, M. Mutic.  Commenting on the subject of refugees and =20
their problems on 21 June, Mutic declared: "These unfortunate people do =20
not ask for much.  They ask - not for hundreds of costly and sumptuous =20
celebrations and expensive and unnecessary meetings of SO-CALLED support - =
=20
but for the renovation of their ruined houses and flats."  It was, noted =20
- - - -
only to reply that great progress had been made of late in the Federation.

The presenter was neutral and mostly left his guests to argue among =20
themselves.  One viewer who rang the programme used the expression "SO-=20
called Croats", to which Hadzifejzovic reacted sharply, saying that was an =
=20
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=37">  Article </a><hr>37/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-129</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-238</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c38 194.10.201.200 19970108043126 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:30:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=38">  Article </a><hr>38/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-130</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-272</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108043207 text/html 2021
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:31:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1863
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: ICRC APPEALS TO THE WARRING PARTIES
Date: 12 Jul 1996 04:59:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

ICRC Communication to the press No. 96/23
Geneva, 10 July 1996

RUSSIAN FEDERATION/NORTHERN CAUCASUS
ICRC APPEALS TO THE WARRING PARTIES IN CHECHNYA

Geneva (ICRC) - Following the renewed outbreak of fierce fighting  
insouthern Chechnya, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)  
isextremely concerned about the plight of the civilian population, which  
isonce again bearing the brunt of the hostilities.

The ICRC calls on the warring parties and all other entities and  
personsinvolved to respect international humanitarian law. It urges them  
inparticular to respect and protect civilians by refraining from  
launchingindiscriminate attacks, spreading terror among the population or  
using itfor military purposes. It further enjoins them to ensure that  
personscaptured and detained are treated humanely, to care for the wounded  
andthe sick, to protect hospitals and medical personnel and to respect  
thered cross and red crescent emblem.

The ICRC earnestly requests the parties to facilitate access for  
itsdelegates to all the victims and other people affected by the  
conflictand to enable them to assist and protect all those in need.

Further information: Tony Burgener, ICRC Geneva, tel.: ++4122 730 2317



++++




## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>38/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-131</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-309</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c39 194.10.201.200 19970108043256 text/html 486
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:32:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 329
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=39">  Article </a><hr>39/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-132</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000239-B031-352</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108043348 text/html 10718
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:33:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 10559
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: Burma--HRW Demands End to Forced Re
Date: 12 Jul 1996 04:59:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

(July 9, 1996, NY)--Human Rights Watch today calls on the Burmese  
government
to end massive forced relocations in the Shan and Karenni States which since
March 1996 have resulted in at least 70,000 villagers being sent to makeshift
shelters and ten known deaths of children from malnutrition in the new sites.
In Shan State, those displaced were warned that if they were found in their
villages after a certain date they would be considered insurgents and shot,
and in both states, the removals were accompanied by human rights violations
that included forced labor, arrests and reports of at least one extrajudicial
execution. The removals have also resulted in a new influx of refugees into
neighboring Thailand. The motivation for such massive displacement is unclear
but appears to be related in Shan State to the creation of new armies by the
remnants of drug lord Khun Sa's troops and in both States to the desire to
improve infrastructure for tourism.

     As three key meetings approach in Asia at the end of July -- the
ministerial summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the
post-ministerial summit, and the Asian Regional Forum -- Human Rights Watch
asks all participants to urge the State Law and Order Restoration Council
(SLORC), Burma's military government, to cease the relocations and allow
international agencies to assist the displaced and monitor their safe return
to their homes. The newly appointed U.N. Special Rapporteur on Burma, Mr.
Rajsoomer Lallah, and U.N. agencies operating in Burma should immediately
visit the affected areas to assess the situation and make additional
recommendations to the Burmese government. Finally, Human Rights Watch urges
the Thai government to permit all those fleeing abuses to be given refuge and
assistance inside Thailand.

     In the Shan State, over 450 villages -- at least 50,000 people -- have
been displaced since March.  The relocations, which are still going on, are
taking place in an area between the towns of Nam San, Mong Nai and Kurn Heang
(Kun Hing). Nam San is about eighty miles east of Taunggyi.  Villagers
received written orders to move from local military commanders, and in most
cases, were given just a few days notice to pack up all their belongings and
move to areas along roads or near towns under the army's control.  Most
reportedly have been forced to provide free labor to widen and improve roads
and other infrastructure projects.  Others have had to work on the military
airport at Nam San, while still others have been forced to work on a railway
line connecting Taunggyi and Hsi Seng.  Both the road development and the
railway are being built to encourage tourism in the area. None of those who
have been relocated have received food, medical supplies or other assistance
from the military, leaving them dependent on the local community. Most
villagers reported that they were prevented from bringing their own rice
supplies with them, and in some cases the entire village was burned to ensure
they would not return.

     The removals have sent thousands of Shan and Akha people fleeing across
the border to Thailand. Here the Thai government has denied them the right to
seek asylum, forcing them to join the estimated 500,000 migrants working
illegally in Thailand.

     In Karenni State, ninety-six villages in an area northeast of the state
capital, Loikaw, between the Salween and Pun rivers received relocation orders
between May 31 and June 15, 1996.  The orders, copies of which have been
obtained by Human Rights Watch, stated that the villages all had to move to
Sha Daw town by June 7. There is a large military garrison in Sha Daw, built
on a hilltop over looking the town.  Fifteen of the villages had to move to
Ywathit, a town to the south. The orders stated that anyone remaining in the
area after that date "would be considered enemies and dealt with  
accordingly."It was reported by refugees from the area that two men were  
arrested by the
military from Daw Moo Mar village, and one boy from Daw Leh Du village was
shot and killed soon after the villagers received the orders to  
move.Families were not permitted to take their livestock or rice supplies  
with them
and had to leave with just the bare essentials - cooking pots and what
clothing they could carry.  At the beginning of July, there were signs that
further relocations were also taking place south of Ywathit, affecting some
5,000 people.

     In total, some 20,000 people in Karenni State were affected by the
orders. Around 10,000 of them went to Sha Daw as ordered, but there they found
that the SLORC had made no provisions for them. The people were housed in
schools and churches and others built makeshift shelters. The SLORC gave only
six small tins of rice for each family, and local residents in Sha Daw helped
with other food. After some weeks, the overcrowding and lack of food lead to a
deterioration in people's health, and at least ten children are known to have
died.  The villagers were also ordered to register with the Immigration and
Manpower Department, and some were able to bribe officials to get passes to
leave.

     An estimated 2,300 people fled to Thailand, where they have been
permitted to stay in the existing Karenni refugee camps near Mae Hong Son
(Karenni camp 2).  According to aid workers, new arrivals continue to enter
the camp every day, reporting in some cases that their villages were razed,
after soldiers had taken all the livestock in the village and destroyed the
remaining crops.  In Ka Ya Kee village, it was also reported that all Bibles
in the Roman Catholic church there were also burned.
     Forced relocation has been a strategy of the Burmese military for
decades, although the scale of the current relocations is unprecedented.
Relocations are usually planned as a means of cutting off the aid that ethnic
minority villages may give to rebel armies.  However, it is especially
alarming that relocations should be taking place now, when SLORC has declared
that it has brought peace in ethnic minority areas by signing military
cease-fire agreements with fifteen rebel groups since 1989.  In the Shan
State, the leader of the main rebel army, drug war lord Khun Sa, surrendered
to the government in January 1996. However, an estimated 2,000 members of his
Mong Tai Army refused to surrender and have joined with other Shan nationalist
groups or created new armies in the central and southern Shan State. It is in
these areas that the relocations have taken place.  This area is also the
center of the opium trade in Burma, the world's largest exporter of heroin,
and efforts by the government to control the drug routes following the
cease-fire with Khun Sa may be an additional reason for the relocations.

     In the Sha Daw area of the Karenni State no rebel groups have operated
since the beginning of 1996, when the SLORC launched a major offensive against
the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), the only Karenni group still
fighting the government. Following the relocations however, the KNPP attacked
the hydroelectric power station at Lawpita, near Loikaw, on June 6.  The KNPP
had signed a military cease-fire agreement with the SLORC in March 1995, but
it broke down in July after the SLORC transferred new troops into KNPP
territory and continued to take KNPP-protected villagers to work as porters
for the army.  It is believed that the relocations in this area are designed
to pressure the KNPP into signing a new and binding cease-fire agreement,
which would enable the government to open up the area to tourism after October
1996, the start of Visit Myanmar Year.

     The estimated 70,000 people relocated in the Shan and Karenni States are
in desperate need of assistance and of international intervention which would
make it possible for them to return to their homes.  There are few
international aid agencies operating in Burma, mainly due to government
restrictions, and none of them currently have access to the affected areas.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is working in
Burma's westernmost state, Arakan, to resettle some 200,000 Muslims who have
been repatriated from Bangladesh. The UNHCR's Working Group on International
Protection recommended in August 1992 (A/AC.96/799) that the UNHCR should seek
to become involved with the monitoring and protection of internally displaced
persons as a preventive measure to avert refugees outflows.  In addition, the
United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), which is also present in Burma, is
mandated to monitor the safety and health of all children, including the
internally displaced. Human Rights Watch urges these organizations to seek
access to the displaced villagers as soon as possible and negotiate a safe
return to their homes.

Human Rights Watch/Asia
Human Rights Watch is a nongovernmental organization established in 1978 to
monitor and promote the observance of internationally recognized human rights
in Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and among the signatories of
the Helsinki accords. Kenneth Roth is the executive director; Cynthia Brown is
the program director.  Robert L. Bernstein is the chair of the board and
Adrian W. DeWind is vice chair.  Its Asia division was established in 1985 to
monitor and promote the observance of internationally recognized human rights
in Asia.  Sidney Jones is the executive director; Mike Jendrzejczyk is the
Washington director; Robin Munro is the Hong Kong director.

Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000
Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>39/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-133</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000240-B043-308</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c40 194.10.201.200 19970108043437 text/html 1283
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:33:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1125
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
- - - -
     and who receive 98 percent of the life sentences handed down in drug
     cases.

--   State-run jails are SO overcrowded and physically deteriorated, and
     local jail officials have neglected prisoners' welfare so shamefully in
     SO many areas, that the U.S. government has threatened to sue eleven
     Georgia counties over jail conditions.
--   Women in prison suffer sexual harassment and intimidation, and sometimes
- - - -
and the right to be free from discrimination.
     The United States has helped create these international standards, but
has been slow to apply them to itself.  And when the United States has
ratified key covenants, it has done SO with such important reservations that
U.S. citizens cannot enforce international human rights law in U.S. courts.

- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=40">  Article </a><hr>40/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-134</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000240-B044-17</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.14&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108043534 text/html 15227
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:34:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15068
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-ref
From: UNHCR.CDR@OLN.comlink.apc.org
Newsgroups: irene.info
Subject: HRW: US--Georgia Cited for Human Ri
Date: 12 Jul 1996 05:00:00

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii

Subject: US--Georgia Cited for Human Rights Abuses on Eve of Olympics

EMBARGOED FOR THURSDAY, JULY 11, 1996 11:30 AM EDT

     In its application to host the centennial Olympic Games, Atlanta touted
itself as, "for many the modern capital of human rights," equating itself with
the "justice and equality inherent in fair play" that are a cornerstone of the
Games.   But the poor, racial minorities, gays and lesbians, and virtually
anyone jailed or imprisoned in the state, might well disagree.   In Modern
Capital of Human Rights? Abuses in the State of Georgia, released today, Human
Rights Watch charges that, far from setting a positive human rights example,
Georgia must make significant improvements before it will be in compliance
with constitutional and international human rights standards.  Kenneth Roth,
executive director of Human Rights Watch declared, "Just as Georgia embraces
the international sporting system, it should uphold the international system
for protecting human rights.  The same standards of fair play and justice that
we applaud on the playing field should be applied to our streets, homes and
prisons."

     Georgia does not stand alone as a human rights violator in the United
States.  The custodial abuse, official neglect, discrimination and intolerance
found in Georgia occur in many other parts of the United States, and those
responsible frequently go unpunished. The death penalty is available in
thirty-eight of the fifty states; twenty-five of these permit the execution of
offenders who were under eighteen at the time of the crime.  Forty states lack
laws to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation, and no state is
immune from police brutality.  Human Rights Watch has focused on Georgia
because in a country as vast as the United States, it is more effective to
highlight particular, illustrative abuses, rather than attempt a comprehensive
survey, and because Atlanta itself has trumpeted its human rights record as a
reason for gaining the Olympics.

     In timing this report for the opening of the Olympic Games, Human Rights
Watch recognizes that the Games have long had important political  
symbolism.The Nazis' racist supremacism (Berlin 1936), black-power salutes  
(Mexico City
1968), anti-Israeli terrorism (Munich 1972), and reciprocal boycotts by the
U.S. and Soviet Union (Moscow 1980 and Los Angeles 1984) vividly illustrate
the fact that the Games have long stood for more than sport alone.  Most
recently, Beijing lost its bid to host the 2000 Olympics because of China's
gross and systematic violations of human rights.  As the world's attention is
drawn to an Olympic site, it follows naturally that the host's human rights
record be scrutinized.  Human Rights Watch hopes that the Atlanta Olympics
will become known not for their hollow invocation of human rights, but as the
occasion for a genuine commitment to the full range of human rights
principles.

     Human Rights Watch finds that state officials and public policies
contravene fundamental human rights principles in a wide range of settings in
Georgia.  For example:

--   Atlanta police officers have used excessive force, including unjustified
     shootings and severe beatings, and have otherwise abused their power
     without coming before external civilian review and without punishment
     through internal department procedures, such that in Atlanta the
     performance of the police is now a controversial and divisive issue.

--   Georgia's death penalty law, upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1976,
     has led to capital punishment primarily for the poor and for
     African-Americans particularly when the victim of the crime is white and
     this discriminatory impact compounds the abuse inherent in the death
     penalty itself.

--   Drug laws are enforced disproportionately against black drug offenders,
     who, for example, are arrested for cocaine-related offenses at seventeen
     times the rate of whites (even though more whites are cocaine offenders)
     and who receive 98 percent of the life sentences handed down in drug
     cases.

--   State-run jails are <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> overcrowded and physically deteriorated, and
     local jail officials have neglected prisoners' welfare <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a> shamefully in
     <a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> many areas, that the U.S. government has threatened to sue eleven
     Georgia counties over jail conditions.
--   Women in prison suffer sexual harassment and intimidation, and sometimes
     rape, at the hands of their guards, a situation which has improved
     greatly since an amended lawsuit was brought against the state in 1992
     but which continues to be serious.

--   Minors in state custody face extremely poor custodial conditions, are
     subjected to cruel restraints and punishment forbidden by international
     standards, are held in overcrowded facilities with little educational or
     other programs to occupy them, without appropriate psychological
     attention, and are virtually ignored as candidates for rehabilitation,
     which is supposed to be the goal of juvenile confinement.
--   Lesbians and gay men face hostility that ranges from harassment under
     the state's anti-"sodomy" law, to openly discriminatory firing of gay
     employees by state officials and others, to verbal threats and physical
     attacks.  Victims of discriminatory treatment in most parts of Georgia
     have no effective recourse because the state does not prohibit
     discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.

--   Freedom of expression is undermined by local school boards, in
     contravention of federal law but without federal action to end it, and
     by state Assembly resolutions that have condemned the state's public
     broadcasting system and have opened up broad new possibilities to
     prosecute Internet users for a variety of hitherto common practices.

     Several of the most persistent practices detailed in the 224-page report
contradict Georgia state law and/or U.S. federal law and the  
Constitution.They also violate international human rights law, which is  
grounded in
principles that the United States, and the state of Georgia, are presumed to
share principles like the individual's guarantee of free expression, the
prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment, the right to due process of law,
and the right to be free from discrimination.
     The United States has helped create these international standards, but
has been slow to apply them to itself.  And when the United States has
ratified key covenants, it has done <a name=L10004></a><a href=#L10005>so</a> with such important reservations that
U.S. citizens cannot enforce international human rights law in U.S. courts.

     In recent years, the United States has ratified the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the Convention Against Torture
or other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and the
International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial
Discrimination (CERD).  The administration of President George Bush saw to the
ratification of the ICCPR, and the incumbent Clinton administration pushed
through Congress the ratification of the Torture Convention and CERD. But both
administrations, Republican and Democratic, have imposed reservations,
declarations and understandings that carve away any expanded protections for
Americans. Principal among these is the declaration that none of the
provisions are self-executing, meaning that they are not automatically
available for Americans to invoke upon ratification, but require passage of
implementing legislation before they can be applied by courts.  At the same
time, the Executive Branch specifically declares that no implementing
legislation is necessary.  The effect is that ratification has no practical
impact; it becomes a charade for external consumption rather than a step to
protect or enhance the rights of Americans.

     Modern Capital of Human Rights? comprises eight chapters on a range of
important human rights issues: police abuse, the death penalty, race and drug
law enforcement, treatment of prisoners, sexual abuse of women prisoners,
conditions for children in confinement, lesbian and gay rights, and freedom of
expression.  In addition to the specific recommendations found in each
chapter, Human Rights Watch makes the following recommendations:

Improving Accountability

--   Effective complaints procedures should be established and adequate
     outreach should be initiated to inform individuals about their right to
     file complaints when their rights have been violated by police and
     corrections officers.
--   Supervisors should be responsible for the actions of their  
subordinates.     Abusive police or corrections officers should be  
disciplined
     appropriately and consistently.  If local prosecutors fail to prosecute,
     federal prosecutors should consider whether criminal civil rights
     violations have occurred and should prosecute accordingly.

--   Local detention facility administrators should be held accountable for
     ignoring deplorable living conditions.  The Justice Department's recent
     reports on its investigation of conditions at county jails in Georgia
     are a clear indication that local officials have abdicated their
     responsibility to provide humane conditions.  If federal investigations
     are necessary to bring about essential improvements in adult or
     children's facilities, they should continue, but local personnel who
     have engaged in misconduct or management that has failed to protect
     inmates' or detainees' basic rights should not go unpunished.

--   Independent human rights investigators should be allowed access to both
     adult and juvenile facilities.

The Death Penalty and Discrepancies in the Criminal Justice System

--   Georgia should abolish the death penalty.

--   Until then, an independent, state-wide public defender system should be
     established to take responsibility for indigent defense in the state to
     ensure that impoverished defendants are represented by lawyers able and
     willing to devote the time, resources and skills necessary in capital
     cases.  At the very least, the pre-existing Multi-County Defender's
     office should be provided with the staff and other resources necessary
     to fulfill its duties in representing poor defendants in capital cases.

--   Georgia's public officials, lawmakers and the public at large should
     scrutinize the means used to enforce drug laws and then assess the
     necessity of these means in light of the state's drug objectives.  The
     inquiry should consider how the current disparate racial impact could be
     reduced by adopting policy alternatives.  As part of this examination,
     officials should review reporting mechanisms and data collection to
     ascertain whether sufficient information has been compiled to be able to
     ascertain the racial impact of drug law enforcement.

Discrimination and Intolerance

--   Georgia should repeal O.C.G.A. Sec. 16-2-2 (the criminal prohibition of
     "sodomy").

--   Georgia communities should repeal all explicitly anti-gay ordinances and
     restrictions.

--   The U.S. Congress should pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act,
     which prohibits employment discrimination based on sexual orientation.

--   Freedom of expression should not be inhibited unnecessarily by
     individuals or groups who have been allowed to arbitrarily choose which
     artworks, books or theater productions are suitable for the community at
     large.

--   To ensure that artistic expression in Georgia is protected from
     political interference, Georgia lawmakers should reject content-based
     restrictions on funding or other forms of support for the arts.

International Human Rights Protections

--   The U.S. Congress should introduce implementing legislation for the
     International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention
     Against Torture and Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment and the
     International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial
     Discrimination, or enact legislation declaring these treaties to be
     self-executing.

--   The U.S. should ratify all relevant international human rights treaties
     not yet approved, including the Convention on the Elimination of All
     Forms of Discrimination Against Women, the American Convention on Human
     Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural
     Rights, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child.

     Human Rights Watch has published twenty-one previous reports on U.S.
human rights issues.

     Copies of Modern Capital of Human Rights? are available from the
Publications Department, Human Rights Watch, 485 Fifth Avenue, New York,  
NY10017 for $18.00 (domestic) and $22.50 (international). Visa and  
MasterCard
accepted.

Human Rights Watch is a nongovernmental organization established in 1978 to
monitor and promote the observance of internationally recognized human rights
in Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and among the signatories of
the Helsinki accords.  It is supported by contributions from private
individuals and foundations  worldwide.  It accepts no government funds,
directly or indirectly.  The staff includes Kenneth Roth, executive director;
Cynthia Brown, program director; Holly J. Burkhalter, advocacy director;
Barbara Guglielmo, finance and administration director; Robert Kimzey,
publications director; Jeri Laber, special advisor;  Lotte Leicht, Brussels
office director; Juan Mndez, general counsel; Susan Osnos, communications
director; Jemera Rone, counsel; and Joanna Weschler, United Nations
representative.  Robert L. Bernstein is the chair of the board and Adrian W.
DeWind is vice chair.

Gopher Address://gopher.humanrights.org:5000
Listserv address: To subscribe to the list, send an e-mail message to
majordomo@igc.apc.org with "subscribe hrw-news" in the body of the message
(leave the subject line blank).

Human Rights Watch
485 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10017-6104
TEL: 212/972-8400
FAX: 212/972-0905
E-mail: hrwnyc@hrw.org

1522 K Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20005
TEL: 202/371-6592
FAX: 202/371-0124
E-mail: hrwdc@hrw.org

## CrossPoint v3.0 ##
.
<hr>40/613  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-135</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA023-000240-B044-66</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108043621 text/html 7002
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:35:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6844
</DOCHDR>
<pre>so -- 613 hits<br>

<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c41"> 41</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=41">    79 960712 HRW: China--Human Rights Abuses Are</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c42"> 42</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=42">   587 960712 Bosnian Media Monitoring Project, B</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c43"> 43</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=43">    71 960712 Rwanda-Burundi: UNHCR on Burundese</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c44"> 44</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=44">   129 960712 Action Alert: Iranian Gay Man Faces</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c45"> 45</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=45">    82 960712 [MSG/30122] India Cyclone -Forwarde</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c46"> 46</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=46">    85 960712 ICRC NEWS 26 -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c47"> 47</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=47">    49 960712 conference in London -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c48"> 48</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=48">   297 960712 Welcome to ICRC / Red Cross Web Sit</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c49"> 49</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=49">    88 960712 [MSG/30423] Venezuela Flood 5/7/199</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c50"> 50</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=50">   380 960712 LANDMINES - INTERVENTION BY ICRC PR</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c51"> 51</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=51">    48 960712 CCSI NGO Project -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c52"> 52</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=52">   321 960712 ICRC Position Paper on Landmines</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c53"> 53</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=53">    62 960712 (Fwd) Dolphin Refugee -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c54"> 54</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=54">   197 960712 Update on the V-lib Migration and E</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c55"> 55</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=55">   123 960712 ICRC NEWS 27 -Forwarded</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c56"> 56</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=56">   174 960712 Bulletin #4/II, 17-23 June, Bosnian</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c57"> 57</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=57">   400 960712 MINES - Intervention by Dr. Corneli</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c58"> 58</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=58">   197 960712 IRDN-CIS Newsletter No 11</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c59"> 59</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=59">   169 960715 UNITED for Intercultural Action -Fo</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c60"> 60</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=60">    20 960715 American Red Cross Humanitarian Awa</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c61"> 61</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=61">    24 960715 ICVA Forum Alert:  WorldAid '96 -Fo</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c62"> 62</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=62">   286 960715 Oxford/George Washington Univ. join</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c63"> 63</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=63">    36 960715 ICVA Forum:  Publications -Forwarde</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c64"> 64</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=64">    63 960715 >>>European Volunteer Training<<<</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c65"> 65</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=65">   326 960716 IRDN/CIS Newsletter No. 12/13</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c66"> 66</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=66">   167 960716 [MSG/31160] Guyana Flood 13/7/1996</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c67"> 67</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=67">   192 960716 [MSG/31263] Chechnya Sitrep No. 13</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c68"> 68</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=68">   183 960716 [MSG/31238] Georgia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c69"> 69</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=69">   153 960716 EELM: CZECH REPUBLIC -- JULY 1996,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c70"> 70</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=70">   258 960716 EELM: CZECH REPUBLIC -- JULY 1996,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c71"> 71</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=71">   170 960716 Invitation to internet-seminar -For</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c72"> 72</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=72">   212 960716 [MSG/31298] Chechnya Sitrep No. 13</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c73"> 73</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=73">   282 960716 EELM: GEORGIA -- JULY 1996, vol. I,</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c74"> 74</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=74">   183 960716 [MSG/31326] Georgia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c75"> 75</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=75">    83 960716 [MSG/31386] India Flood 15/7/1996 -</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c76"> 76</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=76">   151 960716 [MSG/31493] Armenia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c77"> 77</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=77">   191 960716 [MSG/31459] Armenia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c78"> 78</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=78">   189 960716 [MSG/31479] Armenia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c79"> 79</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=79">   183 960716 [MSG/31326] Georgia  Humanitarian S</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=c80"> 80</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.14&q=so&in=80">   297 960717 IRDN/CIS Newsletter Nos 14-15</a>
<hr>41-80/613    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.14&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-136</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B005-200</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/ultra.html 194.10.201.200 19970122043529 text/html 5156
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:35:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4949
Last-Modified: Thursday, 13-Jun-96 00:57:19 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>ultraproteus</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/e-mu.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/ultrapro.jpg">
<p>
<h1>UltraProteus</h1>
<hr>
The UltraProteus MIDI sound
          module combines the great
    sound quality you'd expect from
    the renowned E-mu Proteus family
    with a host of powerful new features: state-of-the-art
    Z-Plane filter technology, onboard effects and a front
    panel ROM/RAM card slot.  UltraProteus encompasses
    a superb 16MB complement of sounds based on the
    resident sound sets in Proteus/1 Pop Rock, Proteus/2
    Orchestral and Proteus/3 World.  UltraProteus also
    includes the incredible Proformance' stereo grand
    piano and a variety of other new waveforms.
<p>
    UltraProteus features 384 onboard presets or 640
    with a ROM or RAM card.  The presets range from
    accurate emulations of traditional musical instruments
    to extraordinary new sounds created by combining
    diverse and unrelated instruments.  Create your own
    entirely new sounds with UltraProteus using its
              470 samples and waveforms as
                 source material.
 
<p>
Or if you prefer, use the ROM/RAM preset card slot on the front panel for the easy addition of new UltraProteus presets from  E-Mu and third-party developers. 
<p>
UltraProteus features state-of-the-art Z-Plane filter
  technology. E-mu's proprietary Z-Plane technology
 delivers unmatched creative control for expressive
 and realistic acoustic sounds, as well as sounds you've
never even imagined!

<p>

 To maximize vour creativity and minimize limitations,
 UltraProteus has all the great features that make
 Proteus famous: 32-voice polyphony for access
 ing a universe of sounds simultaneously; 16-MIDI
 channel multi-timbral operation for demand
 ing sequencing projects; six assignable
 polyphonic outputs for creative mixing;
 and E-Mu's proprietary MIDIPatch
 modulation system for creating new
 sounds easily.  UltraProteus also features
 27 programmable digital effects Such as reverb,
 chorus and flanging to add depth to your sound.

<p>

        Whether you're into rock, jazz, world beat,
           funk, industrial, symphonic or something
            beyond description, UltraProteus offers
          all the sounds you need to express yourself
 fully in composition and performance.
  UltraProteus -the ultimate in Proteus
 family sound modules.
<p>

<hr>
<h2>What Is Z-Plane Synthesis?</h2>
       Z Plane Synthesis is E-Mu's proprietary technology for providing
  new levels of expressivity and dynamic timbral control of sample
  based waveforms.
<p>

       Conventional synthesizer filters consist of a single section that
  simply lets you attenuate a waveform's harmonic content above a
  single frequency with (in some cases) an optional resonant peak at
  that frequency.  In contrast, a Z-Plane filter consists of seven sections,
  each (very much like a band of parametric EQ) allowing independent
  control of frequency, bandwidth and degree of peak or notch.  As a
  result, Z-Plane Filters can model virtually any resonant characteristic;
  whether that of an acoustic instrument body, the human vocal tract
  or even something that does not exist in nature.
<p>

       This modeling capability alone makes Z-Plane Filters the most
  powerful filters ever available on a commercial synthesizcr.  But their
  real power comes from their ability to smoothly interpolate (or "morph")
  between resonant models.  Whether in response to velocity, pressure,
  or a variety of real time controls, Z-Plane filters let you dynamically
  transform sounds in ways never before possible.  From subtle expressive
 variation to alien mutation, Z-Plane Synthesis gives you access to sounds
 which previously existed only in your imagination.
<hr>
<h2>The UltraProteus Function Generator</h2>
       To give you maximum creative control of its Z- Plane filters,
 each UltraProteus choice includes (in addition to three traditional
 AHDSR envelope generators) two advanced programmable
 Function Generators.  For each of a Function Generator's eight
 segments vou can specify not only level and rate, but shape (select
 from 64 shapes including Linear, Exponential, Random and Chaos)
 and a Conditional Jump that will cause  a jump to another specified
 segment based on the state of a chosen  parameter (such as velocity
 footswitch position, and note-off, etc.).
<p>
As part of UltraProteus' MIDIPatch modulation system, each Function Generator can be assigned to any off 35 real-time control destinations including filter morphing.
<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>


</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-137</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B032-316</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107161907 text/html 1395
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 17:18:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1239
</DOCHDR>
social news
<TITLE> social news </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.10>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40 checked> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. A space is OR. 
	If no connectors are used, full matches are marked with '*'
	and displayed first. You can also use AND and NOT to in/exclude 
	words.  Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)
	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.10>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-138</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B040-167</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107184030 text/html 4610
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:39:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4454
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 2572 records<br>

1  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=1"> 492 19960529 Indonesian Seafarers Need Support</a>
2  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2"> 54 19960529 Seoul Transit Workers May Strike</a>
3  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=3"> 83 19960529 Child Labr For Euro BAlls</a>
4  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=4"> 82 19960529 French Telecom Workers To Strike Ov</a>
5  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=5"> 63 19960529 Serbian Workers Strike</a>
6  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=6"> 42 19960529 Moroccan Jobless Graduates Sit-in</a>
7  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=7"> 137 19960530 On the Picket Line 6/6/96</a>
8  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=8"> 138 19960530 Workers Around the World 6/6/96</a>
9  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=9"> 134 19960601 Dockers at Turkish party launch</a>
10  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=10"> 70 19960603 (Fwd) TUC info - FIFA shown yellow card on child labour</a>
11  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=11"> 130 19960603 (Fwd) Disney uses sweatshops</a>
12  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=12"> 184 19960603 (Fwd) Jailed for fighting unemployment</a>
13  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=13"> 73 19960604 Sri Lanka: Police raids NSSP headquarter</a>
14  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=14"> 40 19960603 UK:CAMPAIGN AGAINST EDU CUTS</a>
15  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=15"> 54 19960604 UK:SCOT TUC SUPPORTS DOCKERS</a>
16  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=16"> 147 19960605 news from ICEM</a>
17  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=17"> 118 19960605 UK:HOME WORKERS</a>
18  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=18"> 295 19960605 ITF ACTION WEEK NEWS</a>
19  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=19"> 61 19960605 EUR:PARENTAL LEAVE AGREEMENT</a>
20  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=20"> 128 19960605 TUC:MEDIA CALENDER</a>
21  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=21"> 108 19960605 SRI:ELECTRICITY WORKERS</a>
22  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=22"> 116 19960606 (Fwd) SRI:ELECTRICITY WORKERS</a>
23  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=23"> 84 19960608 Re: news from ICEM</a>
24  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=24"> 39 19960608 Appeal for visits from Mersey Dockers</a>
25  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=25"> 43 19960606 (Fwd) Death of Mr Abiola's wife - N</a>
26  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=26"> 152 19960607 HABITAT: Workers Build Cities, But</a>
27  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=27"> 163 19960607 ILO at Habitat II (Istambul)</a>
28  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=28"> 172 19960608 Campaign for Labor Rights Alert</a>
29  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=29"> 178 19960610 ITF ACTION WEEK REL NO 6</a>
30  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=30"> 69 19960610 UK:LIVERPOOL DOCKERS REJECT OFFER</a>
31  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=31"> 308 19960610 ARG:APPEAL FOR ACTION</a>
32  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=32"> 56 19960610 Global Technologies: Displace Worke</a>
33  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=33"> 117 19960611 LABOUR-MEXICO: Dissident Teachers T</a>
34  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=34"> 146 19960613 appeal</a>
35  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=35"> 82 19960613 NIGERIA: REPRESSION OF UNIONS</a>
36  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=36"> 29 19960613 Demonstration in Bonn on Saturday</a>
37  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=37"> 151 19960612 ILO Predicts Bleak Future For Urban</a>
38  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=38"> 166 19960612 ?s On Honduras Child Labor</a>
39  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=39"> 119 19960612 Child Labr & Unemployment On ILO Ag</a>
40  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=40"> 164 19960612 Squalid Conditions For Colorado Mig</a>
<hr>1-40/2572    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2561-2600">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-139</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B020-179</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108171458 text/html 24820
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:12:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 24661
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Indonesian Seafarers Need Support
Date: 29 May 1996 20:50:51 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 

From: Decky Efrain Rumampuk  efrain@server2.rad.net.id 

Your Excellency,

    We hereby would like to convey our problem in which we have taken much
time to solve. The problem concerns with our claims; where we were employed
not according to the Job Agreement we mutually signed.
    Thus so far, we expected you honor to give us suggestion. The problem
has been sued to many competent authorities/organization, and also has
been published several time by journalist Indonesian daily newspaper
SUARA PEMBARUAN, and daily newspaper MERDEKA, and weekly magazine GATRA ,
and INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE WORLD (IWW) edition May 1996.
Unfortunately,  the company does not admit its mistakes, and also use their
law inssusceptibility in avoiding to solve this matter.  Possibly, they just
underestimate us as manual laborer that we could not prosecute them in court
due to fee, especially when we require legal assistant through lawyer.
It is here were our weakness rest on the present time  ( April 1996 )
we have not found any job. We hope that you excellencies will help us to
solve the problem.
        We write you with an objective that the company shall a warning
from the international justice for it is this way our claims are solvable.
We have authentic evidence and all related document.
                        
                                                                
                                         Sincerely yours


                                         Henki Rumampuk

Note:
Now, the company we want to prosecute
in the court is   NEDLLOYD LINES
C/o. Boompjes 40 - 3011  XB  Rotterdam
P.O. Box 1468      3000  BL  Rotterdam
Telephone       :   010-400611
Telefax         :   010-4046130
Telex           :   24690  nedl.nl

#############################################################################


              NEDLLOYD EXPLOITED INDONESIAN SEAFARER

The undersigned,   Henki Rumampuk,  representing  the  colleagues  being
exploiting by NEDLLOYD.   I  have worked for the period of September 1972
up to April 1994 i.e. +  22 years period of time with long and distinctive
service as Sea-faring-man/seafarer in a bonafide company and in status of
International scale with its branches in large cities around the world.
This company means NEDLLOYD LINES with its domicile as follows:

                 NEDLLOYD LINES
   c/o boompjes 40 - 3011 XB Rotterdam
       P.O.Box 1468  3000 BL Roterdam
       Telephone :   010-4006111
       Telefax   :   010-4046130
       Telex     :   24690 nedl.nl

In May 1988  the said company has cheated us  ( + 40 persons ),  exploited
as well as extorted us to seek the most profitable by way of which unable
to be mentioned/stated out here and has clearly violated labours agreement,
namely us as seafarer (in conformity with the agreement for trading vessel),
but in reality the company has employed us in OFFSHORE DRILLING for the
period of 180 working days with 12 hours non-stop per day.
In Jakarta which I used to encounter for + 16 years of time in that company
to be stationed in one of the NEDLLOYD LINES vessels. Having arrived at the
working place, I found that it was drilling rig in offshore Angola instead
of a trading vessel as stated out in the agreement.
The regulation and its employment are not for us ( I and my + 40 colleagues
encountered ) and of course it did not conform with the agreement already
signed as for the trading Vessel. In the agreement which was signed by us
mentioned as follows,

                     ARTICLE  IV  :  WORKING HOURS
    Day worker. The hours of work for day worker shall be eight ( 8 ) hours
per day  Monday through Friday,  preferably between  8 AM to 5 PM, and
four ( 4 ) hours per day on Saturday preferably between  8 AM to 12 noon.

But in practice, we had to work for 12 hours per day, instead of 8, for the
period of 180 days  ( 6 months period ),  without any day off ( Sundays and
or public holidays ).
Starting from this point, we really felt that the company has intentionally
made a fool of us. The agreement that has mutually been signed by both
parties is,

   Agreement shall be signed by company ( NEDLLOYD LINES ) and the
Indonesian seafarer and approved by the Indonesian authorities,
   the Director General of sea Communication ( Ministry of Communication ).

The said agreement could not properly protect us and as if it has no legal
right. NEDLLOYD company has intentionally allowed ways to achieve its aim
by misusing the said agreement, namely by deceiving the Indonesian Seafarer
Union and Indonesian Government ( Director General of Sea Communication ).
What we have taken steps,  were always threatened with dismissal sanction
and this has happened to some of our colleagues. Therefore, I who have been
working for 16 years at the time of May 1988,  I had to be patient thinking
of my family  ( wife and children )  for our daily needs while waiting for
precise time to act accordingly.
We have requested the adjustment of salary  as drilling worker for several
times,  because since the starting point we have been employed as drilling
crew in May 1988 until April 1994 we received the salary as seafarer as the
agreement signed by us and this clear that the company has cheated us.
Since this has happened repeatedly without any atention/improvement from
NEDLLOYD.  Therefore in April 1994 we forced  NEDLLOYD  to end up cheating
as well as extorting us by doing any change and improvement. But in reality,
NEDLLOYD disregarded and dismissed us without prior notice from the company.
Our status is not clear enough since our dismissal from April 1994 up to
April 1996.   Therefore,  we prosecute this company through  :

(1)  Department  of  Manpower ( Negotiation ) - no solution
(2)  Claiming to the Dutch Embassy  - disregarded
(3)  Claiming to the House of Representative of the Republic of Indonesia
(4)  Verbally to the Minister of Foreign Affairs
(5)  Exposed by journalist of daily Indonesian newspaper  SUARA PEMBARUAN
     more than once.
(6)  Handled by first lawyer,  but in vain.   Handled by other lawyer,  but
    no result
(7)  Decision in the session of central committee labour dispute settlement
     ( Panitia Penyelesaian Perselisihan Perburuhan Pusat ) in Jakarta dated
     February 22 nd 1995  No : 161/27/15-10/IX/PHK/2-1995.

CONSIDERED : That in the said agreement, it is also mentioned that working
agreement including its enclosures and working condition in the ship, both
parties have choose or obeyed the law out of Indonesian law.

That based on the above mentioned point, central committee stated that the
case between  NEDLLOYD  LINES  and its employees, is not settled by the
central committee.

DECISION :  It is stated that central committee is not authorized to settle
the case between  NEDLLOYD  LINES  and its employees

Those are our effort to claim the  NEDLLOYD  to solve our problem/our right,
but no result yet,  in which a query  appears in our mind:  is  NEDDLLOYD
LINES INVULNERABLE AGAINST LAW ? OR NEDDLOYD HAS USED  LAW IN WILDERNESS SO
THAT IT IS ABLE TO CHEATING AND EXTORTION  ?
That's why, our effort through this circular, call the word society, to help
us in doing the pressure either direct or indirect against NEDDLOYD LINES
which we regard as invulnerable against law .   Our thanks to those who are
willing to help us .
On behalf of who encountered this case




Name    :       Henki Rumampuk
Address :       Bekasi Jaya Indah
                Blok B9 No. 7
                Jl, Wijaya Kusuma  IV
                Comp. Danita, Bekasi  17112
                Indonesia.

Phone   :       62 21 8815057  #  62 21 8806213
Fax     :       62 21 8849300  #  62 21 8815057


#############################################################################           FOR SAKE OF ENFORCING OF JUSTICE AND JUSTNESS


Please permit us to explain the problems of  " NEDLLOYD EXPLOITED INDONESIAN
SEAFARER "  that had been circled by us throughout the world.  Our effort
through this  circular, call the world society, especially labours to help
us. And for not a long time, we received some letters in the wide range of
responses and guidelines mainly, from International Labour Office ( ILO ) of
Geneva, July 7 1995 and the letter from Mr. Lyndon Harrison, the member of
the European Parliament  August 2 1995 and August 23 1995. And the letter by
fax from Mr. Joe Wilson dated 26 January 1996, the member of the European
Parliament including explanation letter from Mr. Jan De Vos, vice president
human resources Neddrill Nederland B.V.
Such explanation letter from Neddrill, that had been received Mr. Joe Wilson
will be passed out throughout the world such as our first circular letter
viz, " NEDLLOYD EXPLOITED INDONESIAN SEAFARER " in proving such case.

In responding explanation letter of Mr. Jan De Vos, Senior Vice President
Human Resources Neddrill Nederland BV January 11 1996 on first page,
i.e. : "Neddrill are more directly involved in this matter than Nedlloyd
Lines".

According to us as a labourer and non expert in Law, Nedlloyd Lines  which
ought to be responsible in this case. Actually, we worked at Neddrill but the
recruiter and signer of contract is Nedlloyd Lines, and the victim are our
selves as small labours.
It is necessary to be reminded that ILO's declaration of Philadelphia 1944
stated that labour is not a commodity ( Basic Principle ). There is one more
thing becoming our question, in which Mr. Jan De Vos letter had been written
on formal letter blank of Neddrill and in the lowest of first page had been
printed as follows :


                             :  Neddrill Nederland
                   Nedlloyd  :  is a company of the
                             :  Royal Nedlloyd N.V.

But the explanation letter of Mr. Jan De Vos in August the 10 th 1995 to
Mr.Lyndon Harrison, in the lowest of first page had been printed as follows:


                             :  Neddrill Nederland
                   Neddrill  :  is a company of the
                             :  Neddill  Holding B.V.

When the first time we prosecuted Nedlloyd Lines at Jakarta, name of Neddrill
is abolished/disappeared from the gate of Nedlloyd Representative Office.

Our reply concerning  " Not the policy or intention of Neddrill to exploit
crews of any nationality, and, in fact, a basic theme of all companies within
Royal Nedlloyd is respect people "

Indeed, such basic theme is 'respect people ' but in reality Nedlloyd treats
us as slaves that we must work during 12 hours non stop along 180 days (six
months) without off on Sunday or public holidays. Where as other labours from
some countries who had worked together with us at drilling rig Neddrill 6 in
offshore Angola, only 28 days ( four weeks on, four weeks off schedule ).
It is necessary remembered that we worked  at Neddrill 6 semi submersible
drilling rig as drilling workers and not as seafarer (in conformity with the
agreement for trading vessel).   Moreover, whether had been thought by
Nedlloyd in occupying us as seafarer in order to work which is not our job.
In one side it is very dangerous for our safety and in other word, Nedlloyd
intentionally, had pawned our life in achieving its target to find advantage
as big as possible.  On the base of that, we have written the circular
letters and sent them out throughout the world with title :
NEDLLOYD EXPLOITED INDONESIAN SEAFARER. The aim and purpose of such our
circular letters are as follows :

1. To expose all bad ways in which either Nedlloyd/Neddrill had applied laws
   as a mask for their blunders.
2. To appeal for all parties in the world so as to bring this  matter up to
  International Court. We prosecute Nedlloyd/Neddrill either as CRIMINAL
CASES AN INFRACTION  AND  VIOLATIONS  OF  HUMAN  RIGHTS.
3. We prosecute Nedlloyd/Neddrill  up to International Court, based on
decision in the session of Central Committee Labour Dispute Settlement =
   ( Panitia Penyelesaian Perselisihan Perburuhan Pusat ) Department of Man
   Power Republic of Indonesia  in Jakarta dated 22nd February 1995
   No. 161/27/15-10/IX/PHK/2-1995.
4. We beg law aid through International Lawyers Society in order to
   assist us. We  have authentic evidence and all related document.

To respond the statement of Mr. Jan De Vos " Where he refers to the various
government agencies, embassies and two  firms of lawyers he had consulted,
all of whom could or would not assist him, would seen to indicate that the
contracts issued were indeed in order".

They (various government agencies, embassies and two firms of lawyers) want
to handle this matter but they still confuse with these two kind of contract.
As explained below:



                NEDLLOYD MARINE SERVICE (HK)LIMITED.
                   WORLD  WIDE LABOUR AGREEMENT
            FOR SERVICE ON BOARD MERCHANT NAVY VESSELS


ARTICLE 6.  LAW.
This contract, its Appendix and the condition of employment on board the
vessels are governed by the Laws of Hong Kong, unless stipulated in the
Appendix.


 And the other one contract as follows:


                 MERCURY SHIPMANAGEMENT (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD.
                        WORLD WIDE LABOUR AGREEMENT
                 FOR SERVICE ON BOARD MERCHANT NAVY  VESSELS


ARTICLE 6. LAW.

This contract, its Appendix and the condition of employment onboard the
vessels are governed by the Laws of Singapore, unless stipulated in the
Appendix.


Base on this contract, DEPARTMENT OF MANPOWER REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA issued
a decision in the session of Central Committee Labor Dispute Settlement
( Panitia Penyelesaian Perselisihan Perburuhan Pusat ) in Jakarta dated
February 22nd 1995 No. 161/27/15-10/IX/PHK/2-1995.

Actually, the contract that had been signed by us is original but false.
Because if any company would recruit crew to be occupied at offshore oil
drilling, its work regulation must be under Department of Manpower Republic
of Indonesia (Depnaker) and Directorate General of Gas and Oil, and not from
KPI (Indonesian Seafarer Union). This had been cleared that by the decision
Central Committee labour Dispute Settlement Department of Manpower Republic
of Indonesia.

Considering : Intentionally, that either Nedlloyd Lines or Neddrill within
job contract had made it through PKL (Sea Working Agreement) in the aim of
avoidance its obligation from work stipulation on sector of offshore oil and
gas drilling or at certain operational area. It had been cleared and become
real that Nedlloyd do such work stipulation intentionally and repeatedly,
during + 6 years.

Our response concerning  "Nedlloyd recruit its crew both for Nedlloyd Lines
and Neddrill where needed, through agent, Trikora Lloyd  in Indonesia, as it
is not legally possible for Needlloyd to have its own office there "

The signer of the contract is Nedlloyd. Additionally, neither name of agent
Trikora Lloyd no others included within the contract. In law whose sign the
contract must be responsible to the contract signed. In this case Nedlloyd
Lines is obliged and responsible for settlement . Herewith we enclose some
Guarantee Letters made by Neddloyd Representative Office Jakarta.

Our responds with respect to " Mr. Rumampuk spent the majority of his time
with Neddrill on the Neddrill 1. The full title of this is the 'Neddrill
Workship 1' and it is, very obviously both in law and appearance, a ship.
I enclose for your interest as Appendix 'A' a copy of one of the contracts
that Mr. Rumampuk signed. You will see that he is quite clearly designated
as Boatswain, which is, as I am sure you are aware, a shipping, rather than,
drilling function. From time to time, when there was insufficient work  for
him, he willingly undertook drilling functions, for which he was paid a
bonus over and above his contractual salary for his shipping function "

For clarity I hereby, asking Mr. Jan De Vos to give me the explanation we
should responsible to, Actually, Mr. Rumampuk spent the majority of his time
with Neddrill on the drilling rig Neddrill 6 since 13 May 1988 till 13 May
1991 offshore location,  Angola, Congo, Ghana, Ivory coast, Cabinda/Angola.
Drilling rig Neddrill 6 very obviously both in law and appearance as
DRILLING RIG. As evidence, I hereby, enclose several crew list which no
position for BOATSWAIN can be found. So that I've been placed as crane
operator did my fellow workers whose according to the contract were
AB.Sailor but been placed as ROUGHNECK/ROUSTABOUT.  It was clear, since the
first time I've been placed as drilling crew till 6 April 1994.
This matter can be proved by decision in the session of Central Committee
Labour Dispute Settlement in Jakarta dated February 22nd 1995.

As further evidence, I hereby mention the name of Indonesian crew as follows,

1. Purnomo Joko.  Signed contract AB.Sailor, but been placed as ROUGHNECK
 Drilling Rig Neddrill 6.

2. Purnomo Joko. Signed contract Boatswain, but been placed as Derrickman
   DS. Neddrill Workship 1.

3. Johny Assagaf. Signed contract Sailor/Maintenance, but been placed as
Motorman drilling rig Neddrill 6.

4. Johny Assagaf. Signed contract Engine foreman/Boatswain, but been placed
  as Motorman DS. Neddrill Workship 1.

5. Roy Mandang.  Signed contract AB.Sailor, but been placed as  Roughneck
 DS. Neddrill 2.

    Most of Indonesian crews (approximately. 40 manpowers) placed in
drilling rig Neddrill 6, DS. Neddrill Workship 1, DS. Neddrill 2  have the
posses of the evidences.  It was clear that, this was a dirty trick of
Nedlloyd/Neddrill.  All of us signed the contract for trading vessel.
In the agreement which was signed by us mentioned as follows,

                    ARTICLE IV : WORKING HOURS

Day worker. The hours of work for day worker shall be eight (8) hours per
day, Monday through Friday, preferable between 8 am to 5 p.m.  and four (4)
hours per day on Saturday preferably between  8 am to 12 noon.

But in practice, we had to work for 12 hours per day, instead of 8, and my
function in drilling rig Neddrill 6 and drillship (DS.Neddrill Workship 1)
is crane operator (evidences enclosed). It was the cause why we addressed
this letter to competent authority/organization to seek for an explanation
status of,

1. Semi submersible Neddrill 6 ..................(photo is enclosed)
2. Drillship Neddrill Workship 1 ............... (photo is enclosed)
3. Drillship Neddrill 2 .........................(photo is enclosed)
4. Function of Crane ............................(evidences is enclosed)
5. Function of Roughneck ........................(evidences is enclosed)
6. Function of Roustabout .......................(evidences is  enclosed)

Mr. Jan De Vos said, " Mr. Rumampuk states in his letter that having arrived
at the working place  I found it was a drilling rig in offshore Angola
instead of trading vessel as stated out in the Agreement". You will
appreciate that as this agreement was signed before he arrived to take up
his post, and clearly states the name of the ship on which he is to work,
this seems an unlikely course of events "

After we read Mr. Jan De Vos explanation letter to  Mr. Joe Wilson dated
11 January 1996, it did have some changes with addition of words as
follows : IN OFFSHORE ANGOLA.  Where as in the explanation given by
Mr. Jan De Vos  to  Mr. Lyndon Harrison  dated 10 August 1995 written as
follows : "Having arrived at the working place I found it was a drilling rig
instead of a trading vessel etc".

Based on those changes, I remind Nedlloyd/Neddrill of :

1. A letter given by Mr. Jan De Vos to Mr. Lyndon Harrison dated 10 August
1995 did not give a clear explanation about the first time we worked  for
Neddrill. At 13 May 1988, I started working and being placed on drilling rig
Neddrill 6 which located in offshore Angola and Neddrill 6 is a drilling rig
instead of trading vessel as mentioned in the contract have signed.

2. In the next letter of Mr. Jan De Vos to Mr. Joe Wilson dated 11 January
1996, not also give a clear explanation where Nedlloyd/Neddrill placed
Indonesian seafarer on Neddrill 6  drilling rig  which is not a trading
vessel.

3. To notice all the explanation given by Mr. Jan De Vos always avoiding
Neddrill 6  drilling rig existence which is clearly not a trading vessel.
Therefore we signed the contract whose mentioned  M.V.Neddrill 6
(Motor Vessel)  But in arrival  I found it as a drilling rig.


This case to be evidence for us and had been clear that Nedlloyd/Neddrill
with bad intentions avoided the reality trickly, concerning in which
exploited Indonesian crew occurred 12 hours non stop working per day during
180 days (6 month period ) at Neddrill 6 when operating in Angola.
For better clarity, Neddrill 6 is offshore drilling rig. As evidence I was
occupied as a position as Crane Operator since 13th May 1988 up to 13th May
1991 ( 3 years ) in offshore drilling location  of Angola, Congo, Ghana,
Ivory coast, Cabinda.

Our explanation concerning  Nedlloyd has intentionally allowed ways to
achieve its aim by misusing  the said agreement by deceiving the Indonesian
Seafarer Union (KPI). We are asking about the clarity of the contract as
follows :

a.      NEDLLOYD MARINE SERVICE (HK) LIMITED
            WORLD WIDE LABOUR AGREEMENT
     FOR SERVICE ON BOARD MERCHANT NAVY VESSELS

b.      MERCURY  SHIPMANAGEMENT (SINGAPORE) PTE.LTD.
               WORLD WIDE LABOUR AGREEMENT
        FOR SERVICE ON BOARD MERCHANT NAVY VESSELS.

The two contracts mentioned above have been brought and asked to the KPI
(Indonesian Seafarer Union) for existence , yet both of this contract have
no confession by KPI.  Therefore, I state  that Nedlloyd has intentionally
allowed ways to achieve its aim by misusing the said agreement by deceiving
the Indonesian seafarer union.

In responding the statement of Mr. Jan De Vos,  " where Mr. Rumampuk refers
to Nedlloyd/Neddrill having 'dismissed us without prior notice from the
company' this is  not correct "


Really,  during 15 years, I worked at 12 ships of Nedlloyd Lines, since of
September 1972 up to September 1987, there was not problem due that the
contract has been sign by me in that I am as seafarer with the position of
Boatswain  had been occupied  rightly, i.e.    at trading vessel (Nedlloyd
Lines Vessels). But since 13th May 1988 up to 6th April 1994 (+ 6 years)
I had been occupied  at Neddrill Offshore  Drilling Contractor as Drilling
Worker with position Crane Operator but had been tied in the same contract
as is experienced by me during + 15 years at 12 Nedlloyd Lines vessels.
Obviously, within  such work contract Nedlloyd intentionally, had passed
through PKL (Sea Working Agreement) in the purpose to avoid its obligation
from work stipulation  and regulation  on sector of offshore oil and gas
drilling or at certain operational area. Based on the regulation Minister
of Manpower  Republic of Indonesia vide article 10 and 11 PMTK No. 12/1993.
That in the working relation of certain period any change was  made more
then twice, then the status of the said employee turned into unlimited time.
So that, we state  " Therefore in April 1994 we forced Nedlloyd to end up
cheating as well as extorting us by doing any change and improvement.
But in reality Nedlloyd disregarded and dismissed us without prior notice
from the company"

Thus, our response concerning explanation letter from Nedlloyd/Neddrill and
once more we would like to say thank you very much to Mr. Joe Wilson who had
assisting us.

In the last of word, we will struggle in enforcing justice and justness
continuously.



Henki  Rumampuk



Under mentioned, former employees  Nedlloyd/Neddrill,


Purnomo Joko                      Frans Nuah
Sunardiyono                       Roy Mandang
Reintje Lumingkewas               Dakrim Budhi
Djoko Suprihadi                   Basri Bin Damin
Tirsad Bin Langen                 Noke Timbuleng
Joike D. Dotulong                 Dedy Sofyadi
Mardjuki                          Boudewyn Timbuleng
Muhammad Zulkifli                 Moh Soleh Utih
Samsudin B. Kolle                 Nawawi B. Suhamad
M. Zaini Effendy                  Ruddy Runtunuwu
R. Rondonuwu                      Sofwan Aam B
Hamzam                            Roy Kalalo

.
<hr>1/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-140</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B020-249</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108171555 text/html 2832
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:15:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2674
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Seoul Transit Workers May Strike
Date: 29 May 1996 20:56:06 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 


> 0529'96: Subway Workers Decide to Enter Labor Dispute
> 
> Unionized workers of the Seoul Metropolitan Subway Corp. yesterday
> decided to enter a labor dipute at a meeting of some 160 trade union
> representatives, amid concerns raised over a possible halt of subway
> operations.
> 
> The trade union did not suggest when to go on strike but implied that
> the strike will happen in the very near future. ``The union decided to
> enter a labor dipute because the past eight rounds of negotiation with
> management have failed to settle such pending issue as the
> reinstatment of fired workers,'' a trade union official said.
> 
> The Seoul Metropolitan Subway Corp. has fired 35 unionized workers in
> the wake of past labor disputes, and the union's demand for their
> reinstatement is among the hottest issues in the dispute. ``In
> alliance with the subway corporation in Pusan and Korea Telecom which
> had the similar problems, we will reveal a more concrete plan on how
> to fight in the future,'' the trade union official said.
> 
> Earlier Monday, trade unions of large businesses in public sectors
> jointly vowed to go on massive strike in alliance, if their demands
> weren't accepted by management. Trade union representatives from
> public-sector businesses such as Korea Telecom Co., subway
> corportations in Seoul and Pusan, and the nation's six large
> university hospitals, plan to hold a joint rally in Poramae Park in
> Seoul next Sunday.
> 
> Korea Telecom Co. also had 31 unionized workers dismissed from their
> posts in the past labor disputes. Labor experts forecast large-scale
> labor strikes in the nation's public servics such as subway
> transportations, communications, and also major hospitals around next
> month.
> 
> ``Since the government has strictly banned those public-sector
> businesses from being involved in labor disputes in fear of public
> disorder, the chances for solving the problem within the law are very
> slim,'' a labor expert said.
> 
> He said that the trade unions of businesses in public sectors are
> likely to depend on strikes, rather than anything else, to settle the
> issue.
/koreaherald/

.
<hr>2/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-141</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B021-62</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108171658 text/html 4335
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:16:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4177
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Child Labr For Euro BAlls
Date: 29 May 1996 21:05:10 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 


>          [Work] Euro 96 footballs 'produced by child labour'
>      
>                 Thursday May 30 1996

   By Robert Taylor, Employment Editor  Finanial Times

>                 The Euro 96 football championship, which starts on
>                 June 8, faced allegations on Wednesday night that
>                 authorised souvenir balls were being produced by
>                 child labour in Pakistan.
> 
>                 Leaders from international trade union
>                 organisations and Mr John Monks, general secretary
>                 of the Trades Union Congress, claimed children aged
>                 under 14 were used in making balls bearing the Euro
>                 96 logo. The balls are labelled as having been
>                 licensed by Uefa, the European football
>                 association.
> 
>                 "The world's spotlight is on the championships and
>                 this issue has cast a shadow over them," said Mr
>                 Bill Jordan, general secretary of the
>                 Brussels-based International Confederation of Free
>                 Trade Unions. "It has given a massive shot in the
>                 arm to the vile and lucrative trade that is going
>                 on in Pakistan."
> 
>                 An estimated 80 per cent of the world's footballs
>                 are produced in Pakistan, mainly around the
>                 north-eastern city of Sialkot.
> 
>                 The souvenir balls cost about £4 to make and retail
>                 for an estimated £50 in Europe. As many as 100
>                 companies have been licensed by Uefa to produce
>                 goods and services for the championship.
> 
>                 The accusations were questioned last night by Mr
>                 Gerhard Prochaska, managing director of ISL, the
>                 company given exclusive marketing rights by Uefa
>                 for Euro 96. "At this stage no information has been
>                 supplied to us to suggest such accusations are
>                 correct," he said.
> 
>                 Mr Prochaska said he had been in touch with the
>                 three companies licensed to produce the
>                 championship logo - Umbro in the UK, Tramondi in
>                 Switzerland and Smits Plastics in Holland - which
>                 had told him that "nothing illegal was being done".
> 
>                 However, a Uefa spokesman said last night: "We
>                 disassociate ourselves from any use of child labour
>                 in making footballs. In future we must ensure
>                 children are not involved in this kind of thing."
> 
>                 A 10-minute video by Parachute Productions, a
>                 London-based film production company, released
>                 yesterday purported to show young boys in Sialkot
>                 stitching souvenir footballs.
> 
>                 Union leaders want Fifa, football's world governing
>                 body, to introduce a code of conduct for
>                 manufacturers and subcontractors authorised to make
>                 products for future events.
> 
>                 This would be backed by a monitoring system with
>                 independent verification including spot checks to
>                 ensure basic labour standards are observed.
> 
>                 Mr Sepp Blatter, Fifa's general secretary, said a
>                 code of conduct had "merit ... We would be ready to
>                 discuss how this could be practically applied."


.
<hr>3/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-142</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B021-124</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108171754 text/html 4551
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:17:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4393
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: French Telecom Workers To Strike Ov
Date: 29 May 1996 21:05:10 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 
Subject: French Telecom Workers To Strike Over Privatization

>  
>                 Thursday May 30 1996 Financial Times

  By David Owen in Paris

>                 The French cabinet yesterday adopted a bill to
>                 convert France Télécom into a joint stock company,
>                 paving the way for the sale early next year of some
>                 shares in the state-controlled operator, but also
>                 raising the possibility of fresh strikes by its
>                 largest union next month.
> 
>                 Mr François Fillon, telecommunications minister,
>                 said the bill would go to the country's parliament
>                 "in the next few days" and that the group, valued
>                 at between FFr130bn and FFr200bn (£25.6bn), would
>                 be incorporated on January 1 1997.
> 
>                 Yesterday's announcement followed an agreement with
>                 three of France Telecom's six unions over a
>                 restructuring that could allow the organisation to
>                 shed more than 15 per cent - 22,000 - of its
>                 150,000 staff in the next 10 years.
> 
>                 But the group's largest union reacted with
>                 hostility, saying it was against incorporation and
>                 that it had called a strike for June 4. One
>                 official said the union would try to make this June
>                 like December 1995, when the country was seriously
>                 disrupted by a wave of public sector strikes.
> 
>                 An earlier anti-privatisation strike in April
>                 received only a muted response from union members,
>                 however, with less than half the public utility's
>                 workforce taking part. This compared with the 65 to
>                 75 per cent who took part in protests against a
>                 change in France Telecom's status between 1993 and
>                 1995.
> 
>                 Most unions appear to have accepted government
>                 assurances that the company will continue to give
>                 its employees civil servant status until 2002, with
>                 accompanying job security rights.
> 
>                 Yesterday's announcement was hailed by Mr Jacques
>                 Chirac, the French president, as "an exceptional
>                 achievement" and a necessary one to cope with the
>                 next century. The increasingly strong competition
>                 in the industry will be underlined today when
>                 Bouygues, the French construction group, enters
>                 France's fast-growing mobile phone market.
> 
>                 Initially, the service will only be offered in the
>                 Paris region, but the company aims to cover 90 per
>                 cent of the French population by the end of 1998. A
>                 bill to open the French telecoms market completely
>                 in 1998 is before parliament.
> 
>                 The government has promised to retain a 51 per cent
>                 stake in France Telecom, with a maximum of a
>                 further 10 per cent reserved for employees. Because
>                 of the size of the organisation, which was the
>                 fourth largest telecoms operator in the world in
>                 terms of 1994 turnover, the remaining 39 per cent
>                 is likely to be sold in at least two tranches.
> 
>                 The accord agreed with the unions envisages that
>                 between 20,000 and 25,000 France Télécom employees
>                 would take early retirement in the next 10 years,
>                 in addition to the 35,000 that are due to retire.


.
<hr>4/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-143</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B021-193</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108171848 text/html 2992
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:18:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2834
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Serbian Workers Strike
Date: 29 May 1996 21:10:27 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 

Serbian workers strike, protest for higher wages

    BELGRADE, May 28 (Reuters) - Striking court employees and health
workers demonstrated in Belgrade on Tuesday in support of pay increases
and better working conditions. 

    About 1,000 protesters gathered outside the offices of the
pro-government Independent Trade Union and complained their strikes were
being ignored by the authorities and the state controlled media. 

    Labour unrest over low pay and unpaid wages has gathered pace in
Serbia this spring as workers realised that the suspension of U.N.
sanctions late last year had not revived the almost lifeless economy. 

    ``We want to live and work normally,'' Stevan Djordjevic, president of
the strike committee of the Serbian Health and Social Workers' Trade
Union, told Reuters. ``We demand a 30 percent minimum wage increase.''

    Health workers said the minimum wage in the public sector was 160
dinars ($32) per month compared with the government's claimed national
average wage of 600 dinars ($120). 

    According to official statistics, a family of four needs a minimum of
1,300 ($260) a month. 

    Striking tractor workers in Belgrade said earlier this month they had
not been paid since January. 

    Djordjevic accused the government and state-controlled media of
playing down the strike and added: ``We expected to have some contacts
with the government, but they have not shown readiness to negotiate with
us.''

    Hospitals are open and staff are working but turning away
non-essential cases, acccording to health unions. 

    Njegos Potezica, president of the State Administration and Judiciary
Trade Union said his members had been staging daily one-hour strikes for
the last 10 days. 

    He criticised government ministers who have accused strikers of
undermining the economic and social stability programmes by demanding
higher wages, which would require the printing of money which would
generate inflation. 

    ``Our demands are minimal and the strike will continue until all of
them are met,'' Djordjevic said. 

    Leposava Milicevic, Serbia's health minister, claimed that 90 percent
of medical workers did not support the strike. 

REUTER Reut11:04 05-28-96

Reuter N:Copyright 1996, Reuters News Service
.
<hr>5/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-144</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B021-225</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108171943 text/html 2160
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:19:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2002
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Moroccan Jobless Graduates Sit-in
Date: 29 May 1996 21:11:24 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 

xy

    RABAT, May 28 (Reuter) - Moroccan jobless graduates announced on
Tuesday they will pursue a nine-day-old sit-in indefinitely until the
authorities meet their demands for jobs, a union statement said. 

    ``We have decided to go on our action indefinitely in protest against
the government's unfulfilled promises to provide us with jobs within the
six-month budget covering January to June 1996.''

    The Minister of Administrative Affairs, Massoud Mansouri had opened a
dialogue with graduates on Sunday but ``nothing concrete has come out of
talks,'' a spokeswoman for the Moroccan Labour Union UMT, Samira Kinani
said. 

    The authorities' gesture followed police moves to prevent the strikers
from staging a peaceful march to push for jobs last Friday. 

    Hundreds of youths representing 67 jobless graduate groups throughout
Morocco have been staging a hunger strike and sit-in at UMT headquarters
in Rabat since last Monday to demand decent jobs and a dialogue with the
authorities. 

    Security police at the entrance to the UMT building erected metal
barricades around the area to stop the strikers from leaving the building. 

    It was the latest in a series of strikes in recent months. Bank staff,
miners, health staff and teachers have all been on strike this year to
press for higher pay and better working conditions.

Reut11:01 05-28-96

Reuter N:Copyright 1996, Reuters News Service
.
<hr>6/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-145</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B022-28</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108172041 text/html 6491
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:19:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6333
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: ww@wwpublish.com
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: On the Picket Line 6/6/96
Date: 30 May 1996 08:01:17

From: NY Transfer News Collective  nyt@blythe.org 

-------------------------
Via Workers World News Service
Reprinted from the June 6, 1996
issue of Workers World newspaper
-------------------------

ON THE PICKET LINE

THOUSANDS PROTEST YALE UNION BUSTING

Thousands of workers massed outside the Yale University 
commencement ceremonies May 27. They came from throughout the 
Northeast and as far away as the West Virginia mine fields to 
say no to union busting at the Ivy League school. In a march 
and rally, unionists and community members protested the Yale 
administration's plan to subcontract union work, which 
prompted two strikes by Hotel Employees members during the 
spring semester. The workers of Locals 34 and 35--clerical and 
technical employees, groundskeepers, maintenance and cafeteria 
workers--still don't have a contract. New Haven is the 
seventh-poorest city in the United States; Yale, which 
dominates the local economy, is one of the richest private 
universities.

Speakers included the Revs. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton 
and AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer Richard Trumka. UAW Local 
2110 President Maida Rosenstein represented striking office 
workers at Barnard College in New York. All called for 
labor-community unity against corporate attacks on workers' 
standard of living.

GIFFORDS' SPECIAL LINE

Morning talk-show host Kathy Lee Gifford is threatening to 
sue the National Labor Committee for revealing that a clothing 
line carrying her name is made by super-exploited sweatshop 
workers in Central America. Gifford, a former assistant to 
anti-gay crusader Anita Bryant, has a history of commercial 
endorsements of anti-union exploiters. She regularly appears 
in television commercials for the union-busting Carnival 
Cruise Lines. This spring, the National Labor Committee 
exposed the fact that "Kathy Lee Collection" clothes, sold at 
Wal-Mart stores, are made in a sweatshop in Honduras.

A typical pair of Kathy Lee jeans sells for $20. The 
worker who made the jeans was paid less than 25 cents. Many 
of the workers are under 15 years old. They work a 60-hour 
week.

On the ABC-TV network show "Live with Regis & Kathy Lee," 
Gifford attacked the NLC for revealing her sweatshop secret. 
"How dare you?" she said. She then threatened a lawsuit.

Wal-Mart has now moved production to another shop. The NLC 
says that misses the point. "You don't exploit the kids for 
a year and then walk away," says the NLC's Charles 
Kernaghan. "They owe these kids something." The NLC says the 
new shop where the Kathy Lee Collection is produced pays 
even lower wages.

While the focus was on sweatshops in Central America, it 
was revealed that an illegal sweatshop in New York was 
producing Kathy Lee blouses. The bosses owed up to four 
weeks' back pay to the 25 workers at the shop, who had never 
been paid for overtime. Average pay was $250 for a 60-hour 
work week.

On May 21, the workers showed up only to be told that the 
shop had been closed and they wouldn't be paid. Period. When 
this latest bit of bad publicity hit, Gifford's husband--ABC 
sports announcer and former football star Frank Gifford--went 
running to the sweatshop with cash in hand. He gave each 
worker $300, a fraction of what they were owed. The media, of 
course, played it up like the Giffords are heroes fighting 
against exploitation.

In fact, the Giffords are millionaires profiting from 
exploitation, albeit on a slightly smaller scale than the 
Walton family, which owns the Wal-Mart chain. None of them--
Giffords or Waltons--has to worry about missing a meal, 
while the workers struggle to survive.

BRIDGESTONE/FIRESTONE BOYCOTT PRESSED

The Steel Workers union stepped up its campaign to boycott 
Bridgestone/Firestone tires with a May 26 union rally on 
motorcycles in Indianapolis. In the days leading up to and 
after the Indy 500 and Michigan 500 auto races--where the 
tire maker was a major sponsor--the union 
carried the boycott message to the country with full-page 
newspaper ads. The ads showed pictures of 
former Bridgestone workers, locked out since their 1994-95 
strike, and their families under the headline 
"22 Months in Hell." The Steel Workers also brought the 
boycott to car-racing fans, passing out leaflets at 
the big events. According to a report in the AFL-CIO News, 
the idea was "to hit the company where it hurts the most--on 
the Indy car-race circuit where the tire maker has committed 
millions to convince consumers to buy its tires." The 
National Labor Relations Board has upheld the union's 
complaint that the company violated labor law. But 680 of 
the workers still don't have their jobs back.

RALLY ON WALL STREET

A rally against corporate greed is set for June 6 on Wall 
Street in New York. It's part of the AFL-CIO's "America 
Needs a Raise" campaign. A flier issued by the New York City 
Central Labor Council urges: "Be there to support the voice 
of working men and women against corporate greed. Let's 
stand together and fight back for the changes we need!"

--Gary Wilson

                         - END -

(Copyright Workers World Service: Permission to reprint
granted if source is cited. For more information contact
Workers World, 55 W. 17 St., NY, NY 10011; via e-mail:
ww@wwpublish.com. For subscription info send message to:
ww-info@wwpublish.com. Web: <a href=http://www.workers.org>http://www.workers.org</a>

=================================================================
  NY Transfer News Collective   *   A Service of Blythe Systems  
           Since 1985 - Information for the Rest of Us           
              339 Lafayette St., New York, NY 10012              
  <a href=http://www.blythe.org>http://www.blythe.org</a>                  e-mail: nyt@blythe.org
=================================================================
.
<hr>7/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-146</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B022-102</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108172149 text/html 6207
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:20:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6049
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: ww@wwpublish.com
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Workers Around the World 6/6/96
Date: 30 May 1996 08:02:11

From: NY Transfer News Collective  nyt@blythe.org 


-------------------------
Via Workers World News Service
Reprinted from the June 6, 1996
issue of Workers World newspaper
-------------------------

WORKERS AROUND THE WORLD


MEXICO: BUS DRIVERS WIN SETTLEMENT, NEW MOVEMENT

After a year-long battle with the government, the union 
representing 12,000 Mexico City "Ruta 100" bus drivers 
recently reached a settlement. The agreement follows a 
militant campaign by the union, SUTAUR, including 
demonstrations, hunger strikes, and traffic stoppages.

The Ruta 100 workers were locked out on April 8, 1995, in 
the government's move to privatize the bus line. Eleven 
union leaders were also arrested and the union's assets 
frozen. SUTAUR members were attacked, arrested and harassed.

The tentative settlement includes an increase in 
severance pay for workers who lost their jobs, union 
control of two of the bus lines created following Ruta 
100's dismantling, the release of the union funds and 
freedom for the arrested union leaders.

But most of all, SUTUAR members won a central place in the 
developing independent labor movement. The Ruta 100 workers 
played a central role in building the May First Inter-Union 
Committee, a coalition of unions that organized the massive 
May Day demonstrations in Mexico City last year and this. 
These demonstrations brought hundreds of thousands of 
workers into the street against Mexican President Ernesto 
Zedillo's pro-United States and pro-big business policies--
defying the government-aligned union confederation.

SUTUAR openly allied itself with the Zapatista National 
Liberation Army and invited EZLN supporters to march with 
the May First Committee on May Day.


BATTLE LOOMS IN CHIAPAS

Negotiations between the Zapatista National Liberation 
Army and the Mexican government have degenerated to the 
point where new combat is possible, according to Cecilia 
Rodriguez, U.S. representative of the Zapatistas.

The Zapatistas and the Mexican government have been 
negotiating a series of democratic and social issues since 
the EZLN launched an armed uprising in the southern state 
of Chiapas in January 1994. Agreements have been reached 
on some issues, including autonomy rights for indigenous 
people. But the government has resisted any concessions on 
democratic reforms and social issues like widespread 
poverty in Chiapas.

Mexican troops have been advancing in EZLN-controlled 
areas under the guise of anti-drug operations. These 
operations appear to have the green light from the U.S. 
government, which announced that it would be sending 73 Huey 
attack helicopters to Mexico and would modernize the Mexican 
army's weaponry.

Armed right-wing paramilitary groups tied to landlords 
are also unleashing a wave of terror in southern Mexico. 
In Bachajcn, a small village of 3,000 people, the 
paramilitary group "Los Chinchulines" killed six people, 
burned down 30 houses and eight vehicles, and ransacked 
stores. Los Chinchulines have also targeted Jesuit priests 
in the area, accusing them of being Zapatista supporters 
and issuing death threats against them.

Indigenous groups have fought back. On May 26, the Unitary 
Workers Confederation (CUT) announced that it had captured 
98 members of Los Chinchulines, and was holding them 
accountable for the Bachajcn attack. The CUT, which 
represents peasants in Chiapas, demanded that the state 
government punish the 98.


BRITAIN: DOCK WORKERS FIGHT LOCKOUT

Over 500 Liverpool dock workers are building an 
international campaign to win back their jobs and expand 
union solidarity. The workers were locked out four years ago 
after refusing to cross a picket line against hiring out 
jobs to non-union, part-time workers.

The company, Mersey Docks and Harbour Company, has built 
record profits on the backs of part-time non-union labor. 
Profits have soared from 8.3 million pounds in 1989 to 33.6 
million pounds in 1994.

In February, the dockers organized an international 
conference with delegates from 15 countries. The delegates 
resolved to build solidarity actions in support of the 
Liverpool workers and to provide material aid to the 
workers' families. The conference called for a follow-up 
international conference. It's set for this August.

An important organizing component for the dockers has been 
Women of the Wharf. This group organizes speaking tours, 
fund raisers, and demonstrations. They say they're 
"convinced that our role [will] not end with the settlement 
of this dispute."

The dockers have issued a charter calling for an end to 
part-time labor, jobs for the unemployed in Merseyside, 
reinstatement of all fired workers, no victimization, and 
recognition of the union and all elected shop stewards.

                         - END -

(Copyright Workers World Service: Permission to reprint
granted if source is cited. For more information contact
Workers World, 55 W. 17 St., NY, NY 10011; via e-mail:
ww@wwpublish.com. For subscription info send message to:
ww-info@wwpublish.com. Web: <a href=http://www.workers.org>http://www.workers.org</a>

=================================================================
  NY Transfer News Collective   *   A Service of Blythe Systems  
           Since 1985 - Information for the Rest of Us           
              339 Lafayette St., New York, NY 10012              
  <a href=http://www.blythe.org>http://www.blythe.org</a>                  e-mail: nyt@blythe.org
=================================================================
.
<hr>8/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-147</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B022-192</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108172305 text/html 7224
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:21:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7066
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Dockers at Turkish party launch
Date: Sat, 01 Jun 1996 14:54:25 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 

KEVIN ROBINSON AND BILLY JENKINS represented the Mersey Port Shop
Stewards Committee at the launch of the Emek (progressive Labour)
Party in Turkey. This is their report:

We were met at Istanbul airport by KM, a student and our interpretor
for the duration of our visit. Our first call was to the Socialist
newspaper 'Evransel' where KM does his voluntary work, translating
Turkish into English etc. The most striking first impression as we
travelled from the airport to the newspaper office was the poverty.
It is an understatement to say that we were shocked by the state of
the housing and the sight of children playing in the unfinished
roads and streets.

We met the editor of 'Evransel', gave him a brief outline of our
problem in Liverpool and had our photographs taken so that  they
could make our visit known in their paper. On the wall they had
photographs of comrades who had been killed during their struggles.
One was Metin Goktepe, a journalist who worked for the paper, beaten
to death by the police in January.  We were told of a poet who had
been killed. When we asked KM why, he said his 'crime' was that: 
'He put his thoughts into words and wrote them down.' We also heard
about Dennish, a founder-member of the struggles. He also had been
killed.

Later, at the party headquarters they explained our programme for
the week. Overnight we travelled to Izmir where we were to attend
one of the five festivals. We were also to visit the cities of
Istanbul, Ankara, Adana and Malatya.

A local party member met us in Izmir. He  was also a member of the
Tumtis General Workers Union. We stayed in his home for two nights
and he took us down to the party headquarters were we met the local
comrades. Everyone was interested to hear about the struggle of the
Liverpool dockers. We also met at the headquarters a Spanish
journalist, a German professor, who was a member of Amnesty
International and two Chilean folk singers who were all there for
the festival.

On arrival for the celebrations we were met by a police presence and
everybody was searched on their way in and on their way out.
Eventually inside the sports stadium we were part of a gathering of
some 7,000 people.  We have attended all sorts of meetings in our
lifetime but have never experienced anything like this. The spirit
and enthusiasm for the new party being formed was unbelievable.

At the commencement they passed down the isles an arrangement of
flowers - one for each comrade who had been killed during the
struggles. The flowers were then laid on either side of the stage
and a minute's silence was observed, after which a reading of
remembrance for the fallen comrades was read out.

The festival began with Turkish folk music, Kurdish dancing and all
sorts of entertainment. The enthusiasm stretched from old to young
to express themselves for their new party. It was a magnificent
feeling to know that we were part of it and we will  always remember
it with pride. They were dancing in the aisles and we even got up in
the Turkish dancing - then they would not let us sit down! 

When we were introduced to the meeting along with the other guests
and allowed to speak, it was amazing. When you take into account the
struggles they have themselves, the reception we were given was, to
say the least, magnificent. After the speeches  we were presented
with a photograph of the journalist who was killed and a bunch of
flowers. Then all the people came towards the platform and threw
flowers onto the stage - a tradition to express appreciation. 

During the evening we were introduced to the president of the Tumtis
Union, Sabri Topcu, the most progressive union in Turkey for general
workers. He arranged for us to meet the dock workers the next day in
Izmir. The dock workers in Izmir had their problems. The company
wants to privatise the port, reduce the workforce and bring in
longer hours of work - just the same problems as we face in
Liverpool. Since 1989 the workforce has been reduced from 1,600 to
500, only 20 of which are now permanent workers; the rest are casual
workers. 

The next day we travelled to Ankara to meet Hasan Biber, president
of the dockworkers at his home,  where we were introduced to his
wife and their three lovely children. We had a meal and drink and he
listened to our problems. After discussion he said that he already
had 21 injunctions out on himself and we should not worry ourselves
if this made it 22. He has the full support of all dockworkers
throughout Turkey. He has the respect of the bosses and when he
makes a statement they know he means business. The Mersey Docks and
Harbour Company will certainly receive a fax from him telling them
that the dockworkers in Turkey are in full support of us. 

After  that  we travelled to Boulay where there  was  an
International Transport Workers Federation meeting taking place. All
six unions in Turkey were involved. It was the last day of a
four-day seminar and we were allowed to put our case forward. They
were very concerned and made a collective decision to move a
supportive motion to the full ITF Committee on 3 May.

With special thanks to all our comrades in Turkey. They all made us
so welcome and came forward unstintingly in international workers'
solidarity.

---------------------------------------------------------

Since this report  'Evrensel' has been ordered to close down by
Istanbul No. 1 State Security Court. On 4 April the first court
decision was made, ordering the paper should be suspended for a
month. On 9 April a further order added 15 days. The charge is
'promoting one class over another' - an offence under Turkish state
law. Arguing for the improvement of working and living conditions
can be deemed as breaching this law! At its launch in June 1995,
'Evrensel' was prosecuted because of one of its cartoons. Since then
the paper has been the victim of 37 court cases and has been
confiscated by the state 23 times. Its journalists have been
detained and beaten up on several occasions, and in January Metin
Goktepe was killed.

Please send messages of support to 'Evrensel' Head Office (Istanbul)
Fax: 0090 212 656 0743 (London) Fax: 0171 275 7245 

Fax your protests to: No. 1 State Security Court, Istanbul: 00 90
212 227 2761; Minister of Justice, Mehmet Agar: 00 90 312 417 3954;

Prime Minister, Messut Yilmaz: 00 90 312 417 3954; 

President, Syleyman Demirel: 00 90 312 468 5026

-------------------------------------------------
From "Dockers' Charter" No 6. May 1996
.
<hr>9/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-148</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B022-245</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108172401 text/html 3408
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:23:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3250
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: (Fwd) TUC info - FIFA shown yellow card on child labour
Date: Mon, 03 Jun 1996 17:16:26 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 
Subject: (Fwd) TUC info - FIFA shown yellow card on child labour

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------


>Date: 28 May 1996
>
>Advance notice: FIFA shown yellow card on child labour Unions to 
>unveil new evidence of children in Pakistan producing footballs 
>carrying FIFA and UEFA logos
>
>Press conference Wednesday 29 May 11 am
>
>On the eve of the European Championship, disturbing new film evidence 
>that footballs carrying the Euro96, UEFA and FIFA logos are being 
>produced in Pakistan by young children will be unveiled by the TUC and 
>the international union organisation ICFTU. The ICFTU and TUC are 
>concerned that this evidence indicates that child labour is used in 
>the production of either a supply chain in counterfeit balls or 
>officially licensed footballs.
>
>The ICFTU and TUC want urgent action from FIFA and UEFA to clear the 
>matter up before the start of Euro96 at Wembley on 8 June. They have 
>written to FIFA asking whether it was aware that footballs apparently 
>bearing the official Euro96 and FIFA stamp are being produced by 
>children in Pakistan for public sale; what steps will be taken to 
>investigate the evidence supplied by ICFTU and the TUC; if the logos 
>turn out to be bootlegged, what steps will be taken against offenders; 
>if the logos are authorised, what action will be taken to crack down 
>on child exploitation.
>
>Copies of FIFA's initial response will be released at the press 
>conference. Film evidence showing children employed in a workshop on 
>the outskirts of Sialkot, Pakistan producing footballs carrying the 
>FIFA and UEFA logo, backed by eye witness accounts, will also be 
>screened at the press conference.
>
>The ICFTU and TUC are calling on FIFA to investigate evidence of child 
>exploitation in the production of footballs and to adopt a code of 
>conduct for all manufacturers and sub-contractors authorised to use 
>the FIFA label, in line with internationally recognised standards. The 
>call forms part of a worldwide union campaign to stamp out child 
>exploitation.
>
>Time: 11 am Wednesday 29 May
>Venue: TUC, Congress House, Great Russell Street, London WC1 Speakers:
>Bill Jordan, ICFTU general secretary
>John Monks, TUC general secretary and ICFTU vice president Neil 
>Kearney, ITGLWF general secretary
>David Browne, investigative journalist
>
>Notes to editors
>
>Copies of the video footage showing children working on the footballs 
>will be available on BetacamSP PAL at the press conference.
>
>Contact: TUC: Frances O'Grady 0171 467 1218 (w) or 0171 609 0187 (h) 
>or John Healey 01399 783195 (pager)
>or ICFTU: Daphne Davis ICFTU 00 322 224 0214
>
>

.
<hr>10/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-149</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B023-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108172458 text/html 6018
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:24:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5860
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: (Fwd) Disney uses sweatshops
Date: Mon, 03 Jun 1996 17:16:27 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------

In alt.society.labor-unions, Norman Solomon  mediabeat@igc.apc.org 
wrote:

>From: mediabeat@igc.apc.org (Media Beat)
>Subject: Media Beat: KATHIE LEE, DISNEY AND THE SWEATSHOP UPROAR

>Below is this week's "Media Beat" column by Norman Solomon.
>"Media Beat" appears in about 20 daily newspapers around the
>country and on CompuServe.

>If you like what you read, please contact the editorial page
>editor at daily newspapers in your area and urge them to carry it!
>For more information, send e-mail to  mediabeat-info@igc.org .


>KATHIE LEE, DISNEY AND THE SWEATSHOP UPROAR

>By Norman Solomon  /  Creators Syndicate


>     Controversy about Kathie Lee Gifford's clothing line has
>thrown harsh light on a TV star accused of profiting from labor
>at sweatshops. While Gifford takes the heat, the conglomerate
>that owns her show -- the Walt Disney Co. -- appears cool and
>above the fray. But that's not fair.

>     Disquieting facts about Gifford's commercial ventures have
>surfaced in recent weeks. Some of the clothes with her name on
>the label came from a Honduran factory with girls as young as 12
>working in abysmal conditions. Other Kathie Lee garments hail
>from a Manhattan sweatshop where even the paltry wages for adults
>went unpaid.

>     These revelations are painful for Gifford, who co-hosts the
>hugely successful "Live With Regis & Kathie Lee" program.
>Meanwhile, in private, Disney executives worry that news media
>might get around to widening the story. Their nightmare echoes
>the famous Mouseketeer tune ("Who's the leader of the club...")
>with a present-day version: "Who's the firm with sweatshops that
>make clothes for you and me? D-I-S...N-E-Y..."

>     In Haiti, poor women produce Disney clothing such as
>Pocahontas T-shirts and Lion King outfits for kids. Charles
>Kernaghan -- the labor-rights activist whose congressional
>testimony blew the whistle on the Honduras factory -- says that
>Disney relies on exploited Haitian labor.

>     "The wages are so low that the indentured workers live from
>debt to debt in utter misery," Kernaghan told me. The setup in
>Haiti is hardly fly-by-night, he added. Disney has been buying
>clothes from the same contractor for 20 years.

>     In May, while Disney continued to escape media scrutiny of
>its own consumer products, the company did what it could to
>stabilize Kathie Lee Gifford's career. When she failed to shake
>off the scandal, Disney wheeled out a big gun: ABC News.

>     In a hastily arranged May 22 segment, ABC's "PrimeTime Live"
>tried to bolster a sagging reputation. After Diane Sawyer
>acknowledged that Gifford's syndicated show and ABC are both
>owned by Disney, "PrimeTime" proceeded with sympathetic -- even
>fawning -- treatment.

>     The suffering of sweatshop employees got short shrift.
>Instead, the focus was on the anguish of Gifford, who exuded
>tearful innocence: "I felt like I was being -- of all people,
>being kicked in the teeth for -- for trying to help kids." The
>program touted Gifford's good works for charities.

>     However, the next day brought a jolting PR setback. News
>broke that -- just a few blocks from her TV studio in New York
>City -- a sweatshop was turning out Kathie Lee blouses for Wal-
>Mart. Hired to work below minimum wage for up to 60 hours a week,
>many of the employees hadn't been paid.

>     The entrepreneur's husband, ABC sportscaster Frank Gifford,
>responded by rushing to the sweatshop with envelopes of $300 in
>cash for the mistreated workers. The incident dramatized a blind
>spot that the Giffords share with many journalists: placing
>emphasis on the momentary balm of charity rather than the long-
>term solution of justice.

>     Even now, Kathie Lee Gifford doesn't seem to grasp the
>extent of the problem. In a statement that her publicist faxed to
>me on May 28, Gifford claimed that "there are a handful of
>unethical manufacturers."

>     But it's not a matter of a "handful." Thousands of
>deplorable garment factories operate in the United States. "There
>are about 22,000 cutting and sewing shops, and about half of them
>are really sweatshops," according to Labor Secretary Robert
>Reich.

>     Under pressure from labor-rights activists, Kathie Lee
>Gifford has announced an inspection program for all factories
>producing her line of clothes. The rigor of the process remains
>to be seen. But at least Gifford has acknowledged a problem --
>which is more than can be said for the Walt Disney Co.

>     Call it what you will -- corporate damage control or Mickey
>Mouse evasion -- but so far, Disney has managed to stay clear of
>media brickbats over sweatshops. Such avoidance is easier when a
>company owns many large media outlets.

>     Disney casts a giant media shadow since its purchase of ABC
>last year. The firm's broadcast and cable networks combine with
>divisions that handle TV syndication, book publishing, high-tech
>multimedia and, of course, movies.

>     But all of Disney's media glitz means nothing to
>impoverished women who work for pennies an hour.

>------------------------------------------------------------
>Help get "Media Beat" in your newspaper!!!  Send e-mail to
>       mediabeat-info@igc.org  for more information.




.
<hr>11/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-150</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B023-111</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108172555 text/html 9268
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:25:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9110
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: (Fwd) Jailed for fighting unemployment
Date: Mon, 03 Jun 1996 17:16:31 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 
Subject: (Fwd) Jailed for fighting unemployment

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------
Date:          Sun, 2 Jun 1996 19:07:21 +0100
To:            alex.kacelnik@zoo.ox.ac.uk, iwp.ilo@ix.netcom.com, chrisbai=
ley@gn.apc.org,
               barbor@barbor.demon.co.uk, m-14970@mailbox.swip.net,
               lataminfo@gn.apc.org, psandford@peg.apc.org, sads@zetnet.co=
..uk,
               s0gp@exnet.co.uk, zeynept@turk.net
From:          socvoice@gn.apc.org (Martin Ralph)

Please respond to and distribute as widely as possible. If you are reading
this in Britain we have an Argentinian comrade here for two weeks who will
be able to speak at meetings etc if we can arrange it in time.
Fraternally
Martin Ralph

Jailed For Fighting Unemployment
Release Panario and Alcides Christiansen Now

The Argentine government of Carlos Menem and the provincial governments,
the police and the legal system of Argentina is escalating its repression.
They are responding to the social problems and the protests of workers
pushed by the crisis and the application of the economic plan dictated by
the International Monetary Fund. The real level of unemployment is 25% in =
a
country which has practically no unemployment benefit. In these conditions
sectors of workers are resisting and struggling: resisting the closure of
private factories, the lose and deregulation of public sector work and
demanding the payment of unemployment benefit.
Over 300 workers are facing charges brought against them because they have
been active in protests and demonstrations throughout the country.
Meanwhile those who carried out tortures and assassinations as part of the
military dictatorship such as the Captain Astiz, who assassinated the
France monks are at liberty and not brought to justice. The government is
intent on persecuting and jailing honest workers whose only crime is to
assist workers demands in a desperate social situation.
Horacio Panario and Alcides Christiansen are imprisoned in the province of
Neuquen and Oscar Martinez is charged in Tierra del Fuego. Especially in
the cases in Neuquen they have become 'test cases' for the government and
the repressive legal system, they face a possible ten year jail sentence.
They are applying laws inherited from the passed military dictatorship,
they are also using a charge called "coaccion agravada" which has
tremendous repressive consequences. It means that any disturbances which
take place on a demonstration, which have been initiated many times by the
police, the organisers are held responsible for.
The province of Neuquen is one of the hardest hit areas in the country.
There is high unemployment amongst the construction workers who are
particularly effected the by ending of public construction. The national
population census for this area showed that 20% of families were without
basic necessities.
In Neuquen, over 1,000 unemployed and their families made a peaceful
demonstration called by the Unemployed Workers Co-ordination. The UWC had
obtained a significant victory, which does not exist in any other province
of Argentina: a subsidy for the unemployed of over =A3100. But the provinc=
ial
government, because of the cut backs demanded by the central government,
decided to stop the subsidy.
A delegation went from the demonstration of 2nd October to the Governors
house in order to speak to the governor, the response was savage. The
workers reacted valiantly in trying to stop the attacks. In this process
some of the police were hurt.
Using these incidents as a pretext they arrested Panario and Christiansen
and order the arrest of Hector Etchebaxter, Jorge Chiguay, Victor Sandoval
and Veronica Barriga.
The charge of "agragated coaction"  carries a ten year sentence and no bai=
l
was given to those arrested. This law was used by the military dictatorshi=
p
against the guerrillas and their supporters. Today the government uses the
same laws against the mobilisations and struggles of workers.
The use of this law is done in an arbitrary way which transcends the norma=
l
judicial processes. The judge has refused to receive the declaration of
Panario or consider the testimony of the defence.
Panario is held under cruel conditions, imposed by the judge. He is alone
in his cell which measures 1.5 metres by 3 metres. The jail is in a small
village 100s of kilometres from the capital where his family and friends
are. In winter this area is usually cut off by snow making it impossible
for anyone to visit, it is difficult under the conditions to visit now. Th=
e
judge has refused permission for Panario to be moved to the capital.
Panario is a member of the Movement To Socialism (MAS) and Christiansen wa=
s
a presidential candidate for the MAS in the last elections. He was also th=
e
General Secretary of the Construction Workers Union. Etchebaxter was a
candidate of the MST(Socialist Workers Movement) and Chiquay was also a
member of that party.

Persecution in Tierra del Fuego
The province in the extreme south of Argentina is a centre of engineering
and electronics. There repression was directed against Oscar Martinez
Organising Secretary of the Engineering Workers Union, who lead the
struggle against the closure of factories.
On 31 March 1995 in Ushuaia the most southerly city in the world and
capital of Tierra del Fuego engineering workers marched to the capital in
protest against the closing of the factory. The police attacked the
demonstration. This resulted in the charging of Oscar Martinez, Fabian
Magdalena, Angel Valle and Eduardo Setzes.
On the 11th and 12th April the police mounted an assault of the occupation
of workers of the Continental factory which led to the death of one worker
and numerous injuries and arrests.
The judiciary tried to blame the death of the worker on to Oscar Martinez
and if found quilty by the court would face a sentence of many years.
Sentences already passed have resulted in jail sentences of up to one year
which have been turned into forced labour clearing snow from the streets.

We are asking you to send a post card to Horacio Panario and Alcides
Christiansen to show your solidarity with their struggle.
Horacio Panario
Division de Transito
(Policia de Neuquen - Zapata)
Ruta 22, 8240 Zapala
Prov. de Neuquen
Argentina

Alcides Christiansen
Unidad de Detencion No 11
Pabellon 5 Celda 4
Parque Industrial
8300 Neuquen
Argentina

Demand the release of Alcides Christiansen and Horacio Panario
We are asking the trade union, labour movement, human right and political
organisations to demand the release of all working class leaders and in
particular the release of Alcides Christiansen who is on hunger strike and
Horacio Panario.
On 24th May Alcides Christiansen began a hunger strike demanding:
His release and the release of Horacio Panario and the ceasation of
persecutions.
The punishment of those responsible for the killing of workers and youth.
The ending of all repression and police attacks on workers.

Please write letters of protest to:
President Menem of Argentina, c/o The Argentine Embassy, 53 Hans Place,
London SW1.

National and International Solidarity
1,000s of signatures and letters protests have been sent for including:
The International Dockers Conference held in Liverpool in February 1996,
Jeremy Corbyn Labour MP, a number of French unions including the Sud-PTT
(Post Office Workers), Lula and Vincentinho of the Workers Party of Brazil=
,
leaders of the CUT (the TUC in Brazil), Brazilian Oil Workers leader Carlo=
s
Spiz, Marcial Canterio Gen. Sec. of the STS trade union of Paraguay, Dr
Octavio Rodriguez of the EZLN (Zapatists).
The most recent demonstration in Argentina was in Neuquen on 22nd May lead
by the education workers protested for wages and against the labour reform=
s
of the province. They marched to the governers house and demounced the
unemployment policies and demanded the release of Horacio and Alcides.
Many people have demanded to visit him including: Adolfo Esquivel, Nobel
Prize winner, Rogelio De Leonardis, Sec. gen of the CTA of the north east
region and many other union leaders including from the building workers,
Antonio Alac from the Argentine Communist Party, Nore Ciaponi from the MAS=
..
Campaign Against Repression In Argentina,PO BOX 7268, London E10 6TX is
also supporting the campaign for the release of the trade union and
unemployed prisoners.


International Socialist League
British Section of the International Workers League
PO Box 9
Eccles
Salford
M30 7FX

Tel/fax 0161 707 1584
email: socvoice@gn.apc.org


.
<hr>12/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-151</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B023-203</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108172654 text/html 3770
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:25:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3612
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: 100641.2324@CompuServe.COM
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Sri Lanka: Police raids NSSP headquarter
Date: 04 Jun 1996 04:07:07

TO ALL COMRADES AND FRIENDS --- ACTION NEEDED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

POLICE RAIDS NSSP HEADQUARTERS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Armed police officers raided the Columbo headquarters of the NSSP, the Nava Sama
Samaja (or New Socialist) Party, section of the Fourth International in Sri
Lanka in Colombo on the first of June 1996, while the Party Central Committee
was in session. 

About thirty policemen armed with automatic rifles, grenades and
sub-machine guns broke into the building, saying that they suspected illegal
activities. 

The actual reason for this is that the NSSP is the key organisation supporting
the electricity workers strike commenced on 29 May, which resulted in a total
blackout for 4 days. The strike was called by the movement to safeguard the
electricity board. The whole 14,000 strong workforce went on strike demanding
that the government give up its plan to privatise the Ceylon Electricity Board. 

This is the second time the government has tried to intimidate the NSSP within a
short span of one month, the first being the police attack on the May Day
demonstration.

The President, Chandrika KUMARATUNGA, addressing a press briefing vowed on
Friday May 31 that she will resort to any means "short of killing" to get the
workers back to work. She declared the strike illegal and ordered mass arrest of
the strikers.

Within hours of her threat, unidentified gunmen shot at the main
telecommunicationsunion leader J.B.P. DISSANAYAKA. He escaped unhurt, but it was
clear that the attack was clearly aimed at intimidating other public sector
trade unions which have expressed solidarity with the striking electricity
workers. 

DISSANAYAKA is also a leader of the public sector trade union movement opposing
priovatisation.

Several leading members of the NSSP have also received death threats.
There had been attempts by pro-government sinhala (Sri Lanka's ethincal
majority) forces, including some members of Parliament to rouse chauvinism among
the masses by staging anti-strike demonstrations depicting strikers as a
hindrance to the war effort against Tamil separatist forces. It is interesting
to note that Major General Anuruddha RATWATTE, a maternal uncle of the
President, is both the Deputy Minister of Defence and the Minister for Power and
Energy.

These acts of intimidation are likely to deter the workers, or many of them at
least, from carrying on their strike action.

The NSSP is calling a campaign against state terrorism, war and privatisation. 
A picket will be held in the heart of the capital, Colombo, on 05 May.

The NSSP appeals to all SOCIALISTS and TRADE UNIONISTS to write or fax the
President of Sri Lanka: 

1) To protest and condemn the raid against the NSSP headquarters

2) To protest and condemn all forms of intimidation against the Electricity
workers and the Public sector workers in general.

Please write or fax: The President of Sri Lanka, H.E. Chandrika Kumaratunga,
Presidential Secretariat, Colombo 01, Sri Lanka. FAX (941) 333 703
Please send copy to the NSSP fax (941) 334 822.

PLEASE CIRCULATE THIS INFORMATION

.
<hr>13/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-152</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B023-274</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108172740 text/html 1863
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:26:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1705
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: UK:CAMPAIGN AGAINST EDU CUTS
Date: 03 Jun 1996 13:24:26

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)



Today at Hull University UNISON members signaled enough is enough and 
embarked upon what will be a vigorous campaign against Higher Education 
Cuts.

At a meeting held this morning of approx. 150 members they voted on two 
courses of action:

1.      To lobby the next university Council meeting due to be held on 06 
        June.

2.      To immediately occupy the office of a senior university manager 
and seek a rational explanation of the proposed budget cuts - this we did 
not receive-.

Clearly the university is very concerned at the strenght of feeling of 
the members and moves are already afoot to try to seek agreement to 
resolve the issue, but one of the responses made by the senior 
manager this morning  was that there were no planned redundancies to 
which 
one member said we're not interested in that because basically the job 
won't 
be worth having for those left behind to pick up the pieces.

 Moves are underway to make the lobby of council a successful event.

I will keep you posted of developments, in the meantime messages of 
good luck are always welcome and may well be read out to those attending 
the lobby.

.
<hr>14/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-153</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B023-355</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108172838 text/html 2580
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:27:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2422
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: UK:SCOT TUC SUPPORTS DOCKERS
Date: 04 Jun 1996 05:56:26

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)


'GREAT!' The Scottish TUC annual conference unanimously supported
the joint TGWU-NUM emergency motion in support of the sacked
Liverpool dockers.

'With the media boycott of our dispute, it's not been easy to get
the news around,' said Bob Ritchie, Liverpool dockers' shop steward
who has been a regular on campaign trail in Scotland with Richie
Venton, secretary of the Clydeside Support Group for the Liverpool
Dockers. 

'This decision will now open more doors for the Support Group,' and
he recalled:

'Way back in October 1995 we received a 'phone call from Glasgow,
informing us that there were trade unionists who wanted to form
themselves into a support group for our dispute.

I attended the founding meeting in Glasgow City Chambers. After much
discussion the aims were set out: to build solidarity, raise
finance, try to lift the media boycott. 

There were officials and activists from the journalists and printing
unions, Unison, TGWU, the civil servants and communication workers'
unions, Scottish Militant Labour and the Socialist Workers Party.
Richie Venton was elected organiser/co- ordinator.

As the representative of the Mersey Port Shop Stewards Committee, I
knew from experience that to get the best from the group it was
essential that all political organistions should be able to work
together within the group. 

Monthly newsheets were produced, collection sheets and delegation
visits planned to campaign for workplace collections and levies.

The group has sent delegations to every march and demo in Liverpool
and to join the picket lines. In return our committee has sent
delegations to workplaces in Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee. Now a
trip is planned to visit Aberdeen with the support of the Aberdeen
Trades Council.'

Contact: Richie Venton, PO Box 399, Glasgow G1 Phone: 0141 440 0381 

>From 'Dockers' Charter' No 6 May 1996

.
<hr>15/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-154</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B024-83</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108172942 text/html 7351
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:28:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7193
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: andre@glas.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: news from ICEM
Date: 05 Jun 1996 23:18:45 +0300

From: andre@glas.apc.org (Andrey Mrost)

From GEO2.poptel.org.uk!ICEM Tue Jun  4 14:41:19 1996
Received: from GEO2.poptel.org.uk(really [193.118.254.99]) by mail.glas.apc.org
	via sendmail with smtp
	id  m0uQtXo-0004DaN@mail.glas.apc.org 
	for  ANDRE@GLAS.APC.ORG ; Tue, 4 Jun 96 14:41:00 +0400 (WSU DST)
	(Smail-3.1.92 1996-Mar-19 #6 built DST-Apr-23)
Date: Tue, 04 Jun 1996 11:35:34 GMT
From: ICEM@GEO2.poptel.org.uk
Subject: SOCIAL ENERGY CALL
To: ICEM-MB-AFF@GEO2.poptel.org.uk, ICEM-PUB@GEO2.poptel.org.uk,
    ICEM-FAX-AFF@GEO2.poptel.org.uk, ICEM-ITS@GEO2.poptel.org.uk,
    LABOUR@GEO2.poptel.org.uk
Message-Id:  69621705GEO2@GEO2.poptel.org.uk 
Status: RO

ICEM UPDATE

No. 27/1996

4 June 1996

The following is from the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine 
and General Workers' Unions (ICEM):

ENERGY CHARTER: UNIONS CALL FOR SOCIAL PROTOCOL

As Western energy multinationals are taking over the electric power and gas 
industries of the Eastern European countries, the ICEM and its affiliated 
trade unions in this region have renewed their call for a Social Protocol to 
be added to the Energy Charter Treaty.

This was one of the resolutions of a conference held in Haltern, Germany on 1 
- 2 June by the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine and 
General Workers' Unions (ICEM). The ICEM represents some 20 million energy 
and allied workers in 113 countries of the world.

Entitled "Restructuring and New Role of Trade Unions in Central and Eastern 
European Electric Power Industries", the historic conference was attended by 
more than 100 delegates from 23 countries. This was the first time all major 
electric power, gas and coal mining unions of Central and Eastern Europe had 
gathered in the same conference hall with their Western European colleagues 
and managers of Western companies such as RWE Energie, Electricite de France 
and IVO, which are investing in the electric power industries of these 
countries in conjunction with the privatisation process.

As part of a campaign launched by ICEM's predecessors ICEF and MIF in 1993, 
the ICEM has again written to the Energy Charter Conference and to the 
European Union, urging them to negotiate social rules for multinational 
investment in the energy industries. The Energy Charter Treaty, which is 
signed by 49 nations and the EU, aims to liberalise the exploitation of, and 
trade in, energy.  Principally targeted at Central and Eastern Europe, it 
seeks to establish a level playing field for multinational companies in the 
signatory states. It forbids these states to favour their own energy 
companies and to discriminate against foreign companies. However, the Treaty 
completely ignores any social dimension.

The Social Protocol would oblige the signatory countries to ratify and apply 
the cornerstone Conventions of the UN's International Labour Organisation 
(ILO). These include the ILO's international standards on freedom of 
association and the right to collective bargaining, health and safety, 
minimum age for employment, discrimination, equal remuneration and forced 
labour. As was reported by several delegates, wages are being paid up to 3-4 
months late in the electricity industries of some Central and Eastern 
European countries, but electric power workers still do not have the right 
to strike in many countries of the region. The Conference also urged all 
governments to ratify ILO Convention 176 on Safety and Health in Mines, 
which was adopted in 1995.

"If we want to get the privatisation and restructuring process under control 
and if we are serious about creating a level playing field for business and 
for social advance, we need to balance the enthusiasm for profit with an 
equal enthusiasm for employment and social benefits," said ICEM General 
Secretary Vic Thorpe. He emphasised the need to introduce common rules not 
only for capital but also for labour matters.

The ICEM and its affiliates will pursue agreements on social rules with 
individual companies in conjunction with privatisation and foreign 
investment. Such accords, which have already been negotiated between foreign 
investors, trade unions and the government in Hungary, would guarantee trade 
union rights, continuity of collective agreements, high levels of 
employment, training programmes, social benefits and social facilities. 
Western company executives from RWE Energie, Electricite de France and IVO 
welcomed the idea of social partnership and the active role of trade unions 
in the restructuring process.

The ICEM urges international financial institutions such as the World Bank and 
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) to add similar 
social factors as essential elements in their funding agreements for energy 
projects in Central and Eastern Europe.  Hans Berger, President of the ICEM 
and of the German Mine and Energy Workers' Union, in his opening speech 
criticised the World Bank for imposing too rapid changes at the cost of 
jobs, This, he said, was creating anti-western feeling in some Central and 
Estern European countries -  for instance, in Russia.

ICEM-affiliaprepare and oversee the restructuring 
processes as well as in regulatory commissions.

The ICEM will continue to supply its affiliated electric power unions in 
Central and Eastern Europe with information on industry structures, ongoing 
changes, privatisation and the strategies of multinational energy 
corporations. Contacts with Western European power unions and Western 
companies will be increased. Training programmes on bargaining with new 
employers and on health and safety will be expanded in the region. The ICEM 
will also support its affiliates' campaigns to ensure trade union 
involvement at the national level.

__________________


FRENCH DEMO TOMORROW AGAINST EUROPEAN COMMISSION PLANS: French electricity 
workers will stage a major demonstration tomorrow 5 June against the 
European Commission's proposals for liberalisation of electricity markets 
throughout the European Union. If adopted in its present form, the draft 
directive proposed by the Commission would seriously endanger jobs in the 
industry. At the ICEM's Haltern conference (see main article), electricity 
workers' delegates from 23 countries declared full support for the French 
unions' campaign.   

__________________


ICEM UPDATE is available by e-mail or fax. Individual news items can be 
supplied in other languages on request. 

ICEM
avenue Emile de Beco 109, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium. 
tel.+32.2.6262020   fax +32.2.6484316 
Internet: icem@geo2.poptel.org.uk 

Editor: Ian Graham, Information Officer 

Publisher: Vic Thorpe, General Secretary.

[end]




.
<hr>16/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-155</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B024-155</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108173042 text/html 5588
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:29:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5430
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: UK:HOME WORKERS
Date: 05 Jun 1996 14:13:22

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)



> Date:29 May 1996
> Embargo: Monday 3 June
> 
> No Sweat!-
> Britain's 1.2 million homeworkers "worse off" than 90 years ago 
> 
> Britain's 1.2 million homeworkers - many on poverty pay and working in 
> dangerous conditions - are worse off today than 90 years ago, 
> according No Sweat!, an independent report prepared for the National 
> Group on Homeworking and the TUC, launched today (Monday).  The 
> report, which highlights the case of a homeworker packing gift tags 
> paid just UKP9 for 60 hours work - or 15 pence an hour, calls for new 
> rights for homeworkers to give them the same protection as employees.
> 
> The launch of the  report marks the 90th anniversary of the great 
> Sweated Trades Exhibition - a living exhibition of workers in the 
> sweated trades held in London's West End and attended by the then 
> Princess of Wales - which pricked the conscience of the nation and led 
> to the setting up of a legal minimum wage.
> 
> The wages council system, set up under Winston Churchill in 1909 and  
> scrapped by John Major in 1993, set minimum wage rates and other 
> conditions for Britain's working poor - including over a million 
> homeworkers.  
> 
> The author of No Sweat!, Ursula Huws, rejects claims that sweated 
> homeworking is disappearing and being replaced by highly paid 
> professionals who choose to work from home.  According to the report, 
> traditional forms of homework, including sewing, packing and toy 
> making are still widespread.  And analysis of official figures shows 
> that far from declining, the number of homeworkers in Britain has 
> soared by 50 per cent over a decade. 
> 
> The report also points out that, unlike their foremothers, today's 
> homeworkers have no legal protection against poverty pay and argues 
> that employers are increasingly forcing homeworkers into  pseudo self 
> employed status to avoid giving them the same rights and protection as 
> other employees.
> 
> Other key findings in the report include:
> `
>    The average hourly pay rate for a homeworker is just UKP1.28
>    Real pay rates are even lower when offset against homeworkers' 
> other costs - 40 per cent buy their own machinery, 21 per cent pay for 
> repairs and 50 per cent buy their own materials
> 
>    Six in ten (62 per cent) homeworkers work at weekends or nights
> 
>    A third of homeworkers say they cannot refuse extra work for fear 
> of losing their jobs
> 
> 
> TUC general secretary John Monks said: "The Government has handed 
> Britain's sweatshop bosses a license to exploit and pay poverty wages. 
> Today's homeworkers need the same rights to fair pay and protection 
> against exploitation as any other worker. Instead the clock has been 
> turned back.
> 
> "Homeworkers main hope of fair treatment is if Britain backs the ILO 
> convention which lays down international minimum standards on 
> employment and looks set to be adopted in June.   We are urging John 
> Major to take action and give Britain's homeworkers the rights they so 
> desperately need."
> 
> National Group on Homeworking spokeswoman Shaheen Sameja said: "This 
> report highlights and confirms the reality faced by many homeworkers 
> in Britain which is much the same as their predecessors in the early 
> 1900s.  
> 
> "Nothing has changed.  The lack of recognition together with poor pay 
> and working conditions is a sad reflection on today's society.  It is 
> time for change, it's time for greater equality and opportunity."
> 
> 
> Case studies:
> 
> Janet, a mother of four from Yorkshire, packs gift tags which sell for 
> UKP1.50 per bag in the high street.  She works up to 15 hours a day  
> sorting, counting and stapling bags of gift tags. . Her rate of pay is 
> UKP7.50 per thousand bags which works out at an hourly rate of just 15 
> pence. Janet's employer has never given any health and safety advice 
> or provided any safety equipment.
> 
> Amrit and Kuldeep have worked at home together for ten years sewing 
> collars.  With seven children between them, at first homeworking 
> seemed a good way of combining the need to earn an income with caring 
> responsibilities.  But now they feel tied to the home and unable to 
> refuse work, so there is precious little time to spend playing with 
> the kids.  As skilled sewers, Amrit and Kuldeep earn just UKP78.75 
> between them for 45 hours work.
> 
>  
> There are more case studies in the full report.
> 
> Ends
> 
> Contact: TUC: Frances O'Grady 0171 467 1218 (w) or 0171 609 0187 (h) 
> or
> Dee Sullivan 0171 467 1248 (w) or 01426 317903 (pager) 
> NGH: Shaheen Sameja: 0113 245 4273 or 0113 248 6961
> 
> Note to editors: Copies of the joint TUC/NGH report, No Sweat! Why 
> Britain's one million homeworkers need a new deal by director of the 
> independent research consultancy Analytica, Ursula Huws, are available 
> free to journalists.


.
<hr>17/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-156</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B024-253</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108173140 text/html 9751
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:30:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9593
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ITF ACTION WEEK NEWS
Date: 05 Jun 1996 14:13:23

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)




--openmail-part-0017e21d-00000001
Content-Type: message/rfc822

Subject: ITF Action Week Release #3
FROM: Flint_Richard/itf_london_comms@austin
TO: pr-list@itf.org.uk
Content-Type: multipart/Mixed; boundary="openmail-part-0017e21d-00000002"


--openmail-part-0017e21d-00000002
Content-Type:text/plain; charset=US-ASCII; name="Message text"
Content-Transfer-Encoding:7bit

This is the third "Action week" release from the International Transport
Workers' Federation (ITF).  

We have established this Internet list as an adjunct to the fax list that 
we
normally use.  If you are receiving this and if you do not want to receive
information from the ITF, please reply to this message to that effect. 
Similarly, if you want to alter the address or add additional Internet 
addresses
or if you wish further information, please feel free to respond to this 
message.
 The Communications Department of the ITF will reply to all enquiries 
within 24
hours that are sent by e-mail.

For further information about the week of action or any media related 
business
please contact the ITF Communications' Secretary Richard Flint or the ITF
Communications Department.

Our working hours are from 9:00 till 17:00 hours London, UK time (which is
presently GMT plus 1), but though our switchboard is unstaffed after 
17:00 hours
London time, you can usually contact the Communications Department up 
till 18:00
hours London time by the use of the direct phone number +44 171 940 9258. 
  You
can, of course, send e-mail anytime.

The International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) is a federation of 
470
transport workers' trade unions in over 120 countries, representing more 
than
five million workers. It is one of fifteen International Trade 
Secretariats
allied with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU).
Founded in 1896, it is organised in eight industrial sections: seafaring, 
docks,
railways, road transport, civil aviation, inland navigation, fisheries and
tourism services. It represents the interests of transport workers at 
world
level through its input into international solidarity.

International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF)
49-60 Borough Road
London, England, SE1 1DS
Tel: +44 171-403-2733/Fax: +44 171-357-7871
Internet: info@itf.org.uk
Webpage:  <a href=http://www.itf.org.uk>http://www.itf.org.uk</a>


Action week URL: :  <a href=http://www.itf.org.uk/english/nefw.html>http://www.itf.org.uk/english/nefw.html</a>



International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) action week
Victories in Rotterdam &
Antwerp boycott continues

(ITF London, June 4th) The ITF action against Flag of convenience (Foc) 
shipping
has succeeded in achieving a number of new trade union agreements for 
seafarers
as a direct result of boycott action.

Dutch dockworkers began a boycott of the Antigua and Barbudan flag Louise
Brochard in Rotterdam this morning.  The owners' representative (a Mr.
Hagelstein from Midocean Shipping) initially refused trade union access 
to the
vessel.  The boycott continues.

Two more fleet agreements have been signed today in Rotterdam.  The first 
was
with Fairwind Limited covering the Star Aruba and the Serenitas.  
Fairwind is a
Dutch company operating out of Cyprus.  Another fleet agreement has been 
signed
with  Danaos Shipping Company Limited for the following four vessels: the 
Maersk
Nanhay, London Maersk, Edinburgh Maersk and the Paris Maersk.

In Antwerp the local unions are waging a boycott action against the 
Liberian
flag, German-owned CMB Antwerp which is presently crewed by Filipinos.  
The ship
is owned by F.A. Vinnen & Co from Bremen and has been under blockade since
1.30pm yesterday afternoon.  A representative of the shipowner is on 
board, but,
unfortunately, there are no negotiations yet.

The week of action continues in other ports throughout the Netherlands, 
Belgium,
France and Germany.

The ITF will soon be releasing statistics relating to the number of 
inspections.
 But it is fair to state at this point that the overwhelming majority of 
ships
calling in the target ports are either national flag or Focs with ITF 
approved
collective agreements.

For further information please contact ITF Communications Secretary 
Richard
Flint (+44-171-940-9258 Direct).


The ITF is circulating the following stories from Lloyd's List, a 
maritime daily
newspaper, for information purposes only.  All copyright resides with 
Lloyd's
List and we are providing these stories merely in order to inform people 
of what
the ITF is doing.  

Please do not reproduce these stories without permission from Lloyd's List

Lloyd's List, 4 June 1996
by Anthony Poole

ITF week of action claims an early win

The International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) las night claimed 
success
for the first day of its week of action after managing to secure crewing
agreements for two ships, with the possibility of agreements for another 
11
being signed today.
Yesterday morning a dockworkers' delegation in Hamburg targeted the 
general
cargo vessel Kate, owned by the German owner Funk Schiffahrts-Kontor and
chartered by Finnlines.

The ITF succeeded in securing a pre-contract for a crewing agreement for 
the
ship, with the promise of a full agreement being signed last night, said 
Richard
Flint, Secretary of the Communications Department.  The vesel is entered 
on the
German second register.

The Liberian-registered handysize dry bulk carrier Marianna was also 
inspected
by the delegation and an approved crewing agreement was signed 
immediately,
according to Mr Flint.
The vessels' registered owner is Inlet Navigation in Monrovia, Liberia,
connected with the Piraeus-based Byzantine Maritime Corporation agency.

The ro-ro vessel Angela J., this time in Rotterdam, produced the strongest
result for the ITF.

The German owner of the Antigua and Barbuda-registered ship, Jungerhans & 
Co
Reedereiverwaltung, refused to allow a delegation of dockworkers to board 
the
vessel, said Mr Flint, so she was boycotted at 1010 hrs yesterday morning,
bringing cargo work to a halt.

The crew is employed by Cyprus-based Marlow Navigation, which agreed to 
sign an
ITF-approved agreement.  Marlow also said it was considering signing 
agreements
covering 11 other vessels.
Mr Flint said the Herman Eden, Managing Director of Marlow Navigation, 
would be
in Rotterdam today to discuss the issue.  He could not be reached in his 
ofice
in Cyprus for comment.
Mr Flint said: "We're very pleased with the results of the first day."

A Bahamian-flagged ro-ro vessel in Eruopoort attempted to discharge cargo
without the use of dockers.  The owner eventually agreed to employ two 
dockers
for cargo work.
Mr Flint said that inspections were taking place in French and Belgian 
ports,
adding that a ship boycott was under way in Antwerp.

The ITF is circulating the following stories from the Hong Kong Shipping 
Daily,
a maritime daily newspaper, for information purposes only.  All copyright
resides with them and we are providing these stories merely in order to 
inform
people of what the ITF is doing.  

Please do not reproduce these stories without permission

Best of all, visit the Hong Kong Shipping Daily 's site on the World Wide 
Web

URL: <a href=http://www.info.gov.hk/mardep/hksdaily/>http://www.info.gov.hk/mardep/hksdaily/</a>


  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING DAILY
  
  
  EMAIL EDITION
  
  ISSUE NO 151
  TUESDAY 4 JUNE 1996
  
  
  A Hong Kong Shipping Daily Publication
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  

  
  ITF ACTION BITES
  
  Affiliate unions of the International Transport Workers' Federation 
have 
  forced several owners of open-registry vessels in Hamburg and Rotterdam 
to 
  sign ITF collective agreements. Dockers and ITF officials used brief 
strikes 
  and gangway occupations to coerce compliance  with demands that owners 
pay 
  ITF rates to crews. The actions are part of week-long campaign against 
"flag 
  of convenience" ships which the ITF is mounting in northern European 
ports.
  
  The campaign is also aimed at forcing ships to use dockers for cargo 
  operations, including lashing and unlashing. The ITF claims the owners 
of a 
  vessel, identified only as the "Excalibur", agreed to hire local 
dockers to 
  this work "following ITF intervention" in Rotterdam. 
  
    
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  International Shipping Daily is published by Hong Kong Shipping Daily 
Ltd
  
  Email address: hksdaily@asiaonline.net
  
  Hong Kong Editorial Office
  
  GPO Box 6465
  Hong Kong
  
  Tel: +852 2870 3051
  Fax: +852 28703292
  
  UK Editorial Office
  
  PO Box 5
  Westham
  East Sussex
  BN23 7SS
  United Kingdom
  
  Tel: +44 1323 768998
  Fax: +44 1323 769210
  
  
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
  
  
  


--openmail-part-0017e21d-00000002--

--openmail-part-0017e21d-00000001--


.
<hr>18/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-157</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B024-311</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108173227 text/html 2971
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:31:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2813
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: EUR:PARENTAL LEAVE AGREEMENT
Date: 05 Jun 1996 14:13:38

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)



> date:              4 June 1996
> release:   immediate
> 
> Parental leave agreed for Europe despite `phoney war' of British veto
> 
> The EU's social affairs council has today given employees across 
> Europe new rights to parental leave. The TUC estimates the move will 
> affect more than 400 companies in the UK, and despite Britain's policy 
> of non-co-operation, ministers are powerless to block it or influence 
> it in any way.
> 
> "British ministers have got themselves into the absurd position that 
> they are vetoing measures they support, but are powerless to stop this 
> new law they oppose." said TUC General Secretary, John Monks.
> 
> "This is the inevitable result of the government's increasing 
> disengagement from the realities of Europe. First we had the 
> `opt-out', which lost them any influence over this parental leave 
> agreement, and now we have the running veto of this phoney war.
> 
> "The Government is leaving Britain more isolated and less influential 
> in Europe. The inevitable result is that other European Union 
> countries will push for more decisions to be taken by qualified 
> majority voting and procedures that exclude British influence. If they 
> can't go ahead with us, they will simply go round us.
> 
> "Today's parental leave provision will affect as many as 400 British 
> companies who also operate in other EU countries. They will now have 
> to grant unpaid parental leave to their employees in other EU 
> countries. Unions will now step up their campaign to win the same deal 
> for up to 3 million British employees who work for Euro-multinational 
> companies. Our experience with European Works Councils shows that most 
> companies recognise that they cannot opt their UK workforce out from 
> benefits available in the rest of Europe.
> 
> "Vital British interests go unrepresented, while the government 
> languishes in the European sin-bin."
> 
> Notes
> 
> 1) more information TUC press office: 0171 467 1248 or John Healey 
> (01399 783195 pager)
> 
> 2) a 2 page briefing on the parental leave agreement is attached or 
> avaliable from the TUC.
> 
> 3) the social affairs council approval is the final stage of the 
> process giving the parental leave agreement force of law


.
<hr>19/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-158</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B025-46</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108173317 text/html 4931
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:32:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4773
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: TUC:MEDIA CALENDER
Date: 05 Jun 1996 14:17:21

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)

REPOSTED BY U.I.S (UNION INFORMATION SERVICE)
NEWS AND VIEWS FROM AROUND THE WORLD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

> TUC media calendar 1996
> 
> 
> To help with planning, attached is a list of key TUC (and some 
> non-TUC) events and publications for 1996. All events are in London 
> unless stated otherwise.  Please note that while all entries are 
> correct at time of publication, they are subject to change.  Not all 
> events listed are open to the media so please check beforehand if you 
> are interested in attending any event.
> 
> A regularly updated version of the media calendar will be available 
> throughout the year from the Campaigns and Communications Department, 
> in addition to our weekly news diary which is posted each week on our 
> web site www.tuc.org.uk 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Contact:   Dee Sullivan on 0171 467 1248 or 01426 317903 (pager)
>            John Healey on 0171467 1244 or 01399 783195 (pager)Ü
> 
> TUC MEDIA CALENDAR 1996
> 
> 
>  
> June                       
> 2                  90th anniversary of sweated trades exhibition
> 2                  Publication of TUC report No Sweat on homeworkers
> 3-20                       ILO Conference, Geneva
> 3-4                        EU Social Affairs and Finance Councils
> 6-7                        ETUC Executive, Brussels
> 12                 Unemployment figures
> 12                 TUC report on part-time workers and job creation
> 17                 TUC Executive Committee
> 18                 TUC conference, New Unionism - organising for 
> growth
> 19                 TUC General Council
> 21                 ILO governing body, Geneva
> 22                 Implementation of directive on the protection of 
> young people                       at work (except UK as exempted till 
> year 2000)
> 24                 Release of TUC`s Respect single
> 25                 TUC Childcare Conference
> end                        European Council, Florence
> 
> 
> July                       
> 5                  TUC Gay and Lesbian Conference
> 9                  Govt appeal against Seymour Smith & Perez hearing, 
> House of                   Lords (protection against unfair dismissal 
> and redundancy)
> 11                 TUC/Unity Trust Bank PR Awards
> mid                        TUC report on school leavers' unemployment 
> levels
> 17                 TUC Executive Committee
> 17                 TUC report on small and medium enterprises
> 17                 Unemployment figures
> 20                 Respect - TUC's free national anti-racism festival
> 24                 TUC General Council
> 30                 TUC report on poverty, health and unemployment
> 
> 
> August
> 14                 Unemployment figures 
> 21                 TUC Executive Committee
> 
> 
> September 
> 5                  TUC General Council
> 9-13                       TUC Congress, Blackpool
> 11                 Unemployment figures
> 23                 TUC/Ergonomics Society conference on `Designing RSI 
> out of the                         workplace'
> 25                 TUC Executive Committee
> 
> 
> Ü
> 
> 
> October 
> 7                  TUC Stress conference
> 11-13                      TUC Centres for the Unemployed National 
> Conference
> 16                 TUC Executive Committee
>                    Unemployment figures
> 29-30                      TUC General Council
> Oct/Nov            TUC conference on Black Britain
> Autumn             TUC Pensions Conference
> 
> 
> November
> 13                 TUC pre-Budget conference
>                    Unemployment figures
>                    TUC Conference on Industrial Injuries Benefit 
> Take-up 
> 20                 TUC Executive Committee
> 27                 Budget Day
> 
> 
> December 
> 11                         TUC Conference on Preventing Occupational 
> Injury and Ill-                            health: the role of 
> insurance
> 16                 TUC Executive Committee
> 18                 TUC General Council
>                    Unemployment figures
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Contact:   Dee Sullivan on 0171 467 1248 or 01426 317903 (pager)
>            John Healey on 0171 467 1244 or 01399 783195 (pager)


.
<hr>20/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-159</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B025-135</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108173412 text/html 4769
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:33:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4611
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: SRI:ELECTRICITY WORKERS
Date: 05 Jun 1996 14:18:34

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)

REPOSTED BY U.I.S (UNION INFORMATION SERVICE)
NEWS AND VIEWS FROM AROUND THE WORLD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

From Toni Bloodworth  Toni.Bloodworth@vcp.monash.edu.au , on 6/5/96 7:48 
PM:
Andy, can you post this on your list please....Toni


Subject: Sri Lanka: Police raids NSSP headquarters (fwd)



TO ALL COMRADES AND FRIENDS --- ACTION NEEDED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

POLICE RAIDS NSSP HEADQUARTERS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Armed police officers raided the Columbo headquarters of the NSSP, the
Nava Sama Samaja (or New Socialist) Party, section of the Fourth
International in Sri Lanka in Colombo on the first of June 1996, while the
Party Central Committee was in session. 

About thirty policemen armed with automatic rifles, grenades and
sub-machine guns broke into the building, saying that they suspected
illegal activities. 

The actual reason for this is that the NSSP is the key organisation
supporting the electricity workers strike commenced on 29 May, which
resulted in a total blackout for 4 days. The strike was called by the
movement to safeguard the electricity board. The whole 14,000 strong
workforce went on strike demanding that the government give up its plan to
privatise the Ceylon Electricity Board. 

This is the second time the government has tried to intimidate the NSSP
within a short span of one month, the first being the police attack on the
May Day demonstration. 

The President, Chandrika KUMARATUNGA, addressing a press briefing vowed on
Friday May 31 that she will resort to any means "short of killing" to get
the workers back to work. She declared the strike illegal and ordered mass
arrest of the strikers. 

Within hours of her threat, unidentified gunmen shot at the main
telecommunicationsunion leader J.B.P. DISSANAYAKA. He escaped unhurt, but
it was clear that the attack was clearly aimed at intimidating other
public sector trade unions which have expressed solidarity with the
striking electricity workers. 

DISSANAYAKA is also a leader of the public sector trade union movement
opposing priovatisation. 

Several leading members of the NSSP have also received death threats.
There had been attempts by pro-government sinhala (Sri Lanka's ethincal
majority) forces, including some members of Parliament to rouse chauvinism
among the masses by staging anti-strike demonstrations depicting strikers
as a hindrance to the war effort against Tamil separatist forces. It is
interesting to note that Major General Anuruddha RATWATTE, a maternal
uncle of the President, is both the Deputy Minister of Defence and the
Minister for Power and Energy. 

These acts of intimidation are likely to deter the workers, or many of
them at least, from carrying on their strike action. 

The NSSP is calling a campaign against state terrorism, war and
privatisation.  A picket will be held in the heart of the capital,
Colombo, on 05 May. 

The NSSP appeals to all SOCIALISTS and TRADE UNIONISTS to write or fax the
President of Sri Lanka: 

1) To protest and condemn the raid against the NSSP headquarters

2) To protest and condemn all forms of intimidation against the
Electricity workers and the Public sector workers in general. 

Please write or fax: The President of Sri Lanka, H.E. Chandrika
Kumaratunga, Presidential Secretariat, Colombo 01, Sri Lanka. FAX (941)
333 703 Please send copy to the NSSP fax (941) 334 822. 

PLEASE CIRCULATE THIS INFORMATION

...........................................................................
.. 
....
e-mail:Toni.Bloodworth@VCP.Monash.edu.au
Ph: (03) 9903 9528
snail-mail : Monash university,
Dept. Pharmaceutics, Victorian College of Pharmacy
381 Royal Pde, Parkville, Vic 3052, Australia
...........................................................................
.. 
.. 
       ++++ stop the execution of Mumia Abu-Jamal ++++
++++ if you agree copy these 3 sentences in your own sig ++++
++++ more info:<a href=http://www.xs4all.nl/~tank/spg-l/sigaction.htm++++>http://www.xs4all.nl/~tank/spg-l/sigaction.htm++++</a>




.
<hr>21/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-160</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B025-192</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108173502 text/html 5077
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:34:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4919
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: (Fwd) SRI:ELECTRICITY WORKERS
Date: Thu, 06 Jun 1996 00:57:22 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------
From:          sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Organization:  Labor Communications Committee
Date:          Wed, 05 Jun 96 15:23:40 -0600
Subject:       SRI:ELECTRICITY WORKERS
To:            UNITED  united@cougar.com 
Reply-to:      united@cougar.com

REPOSTED BY U.I.S (UNION INFORMATION SERVICE)
NEWS AND VIEWS FROM AROUND THE WORLD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

>From Toni Bloodworth  Toni.Bloodworth@vcp.monash.edu.au , on 6/5/96 7:48 
PM:
Andy, can you post this on your list please....Toni


Subject: Sri Lanka: Police raids NSSP headquarters (fwd)



TO ALL COMRADES AND FRIENDS --- ACTION NEEDED !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

POLICE RAIDS NSSP HEADQUARTERS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Armed police officers raided the Columbo headquarters of the NSSP, the
Nava Sama Samaja (or New Socialist) Party, section of the Fourth
International in Sri Lanka in Colombo on the first of June 1996, while the
Party Central Committee was in session. 

About thirty policemen armed with automatic rifles, grenades and
sub-machine guns broke into the building, saying that they suspected
illegal activities. 

The actual reason for this is that the NSSP is the key organisation
supporting the electricity workers strike commenced on 29 May, which
resulted in a total blackout for 4 days. The strike was called by the
movement to safeguard the electricity board. The whole 14,000 strong
workforce went on strike demanding that the government give up its plan to
privatise the Ceylon Electricity Board. 

This is the second time the government has tried to intimidate the NSSP
within a short span of one month, the first being the police attack on the
May Day demonstration. 

The President, Chandrika KUMARATUNGA, addressing a press briefing vowed on
Friday May 31 that she will resort to any means "short of killing" to get
the workers back to work. She declared the strike illegal and ordered mass
arrest of the strikers. 

Within hours of her threat, unidentified gunmen shot at the main
telecommunicationsunion leader J.B.P. DISSANAYAKA. He escaped unhurt, but
it was clear that the attack was clearly aimed at intimidating other
public sector trade unions which have expressed solidarity with the
striking electricity workers. 

DISSANAYAKA is also a leader of the public sector trade union movement
opposing priovatisation. 

Several leading members of the NSSP have also received death threats.
There had been attempts by pro-government sinhala (Sri Lanka's ethincal
majority) forces, including some members of Parliament to rouse chauvinism
among the masses by staging anti-strike demonstrations depicting strikers
as a hindrance to the war effort against Tamil separatist forces. It is
interesting to note that Major General Anuruddha RATWATTE, a maternal
uncle of the President, is both the Deputy Minister of Defence and the
Minister for Power and Energy. 

These acts of intimidation are likely to deter the workers, or many of
them at least, from carrying on their strike action. 

The NSSP is calling a campaign against state terrorism, war and
privatisation.  A picket will be held in the heart of the capital,
Colombo, on 05 May. 

The NSSP appeals to all SOCIALISTS and TRADE UNIONISTS to write or fax the
President of Sri Lanka: 

1) To protest and condemn the raid against the NSSP headquarters

2) To protest and condemn all forms of intimidation against the
Electricity workers and the Public sector workers in general. 

Please write or fax: The President of Sri Lanka, H.E. Chandrika
Kumaratunga, Presidential Secretariat, Colombo 01, Sri Lanka. FAX (941)
333 703 Please send copy to the NSSP fax (941) 334 822. 

PLEASE CIRCULATE THIS INFORMATION

...........................................................................
.. 
....
e-mail:Toni.Bloodworth@VCP.Monash.edu.au
Ph: (03) 9903 9528
snail-mail : Monash university,
Dept. Pharmaceutics, Victorian College of Pharmacy
381 Royal Pde, Parkville, Vic 3052, Australia
...........................................................................
.. 
.. 
       ++++ stop the execution of Mumia Abu-Jamal ++++
++++ if you agree copy these 3 sentences in your own sig ++++
++++ more info:<a href=http://www.xs4all.nl/~tank/spg-l/sigaction.htm++++>http://www.xs4all.nl/~tank/spg-l/sigaction.htm++++</a>




.
<hr>22/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-161</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B025-260</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108173555 text/html 3430
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:35:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3272
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: andre@glas.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Re: news from ICEM
Date: 08 Jun 1996 15:50:38 +0300

From: andre@glas.apc.org (Andrey Mrost)

From GEO2.poptel.org.uk!ICEM Fri Jun  7 16:50:30 1996
Received: from GEO2.poptel.org.uk(really [193.118.254.99]) by mail.glas.apc.org
	via sendmail with smtp
	id  m0uS0yV-0004DVN@mail.glas.apc.org 
	for  ANDRE@GLAS.APC.ORG ; Fri, 7 Jun 96 16:49:11 +0400 (WSU DST)
	(Smail-3.1.92 1996-Mar-19 #6 built DST-Apr-23)
Date: Fri, 07 Jun 1996 13:49:10 GMT
From: ICEM@GEO2.poptel.org.uk
Subject: Norwegian Oilworkers' Strike
To: ICEM-MB-AFF@GEO2.poptel.org.uk, ICEM-PUB@GEO2.poptel.org.uk,
    ICEM-FAX-AFF@GEO2.poptel.org.uk, ICEM-ITS@GEO2.poptel.org.uk,
    LABOUR@GEO2.poptel.org.uk
Message-Id:  69657630GEO2@GEO2.poptel.org.uk 
Status: RO




ICEM UPDATE

No.28/1996

7 June 1996


The following is from the International Federation of 
Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers' Unions (ICEM) :

INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT FOR NORWEGIAN OILWORKERS' STRIKE

On behalf of its more than 20 million members worldwide, 
the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine and 
General Workers' Unions (ICEM) has declared strong support 
for the current strike in the Norwegian oil industry.  
Members of ICEM Norwegian affiliate NOPEF are striking for 
adjustments to the wage structures and working conditions 
in the industry.  Involved are the personnel on sixteen 
exploration rigs as well as divers and other groups of 
workers.

NOPEF is campaigning for greater wage justice, 
particularly for the lower paid but highly qualified 
personnel, such as geologists.  It also wants greater 
regularity in their work times.  The NOPEF claims will 
extend equitable pay and conditions to a new group of 
Norwegian oil workers.  NOPEF members' collective 
agreements and working environment have long been the best 
in  the offshore sector.

The strike is on behalf of all well service personnel, 
divers and sub sea workers, but the action is being 
limited to exploration work.  It has been decide not to 
halt production of oil and gas as interruption of this 
output would have serious consequences for the Norwegian 
tax payers and for gas consumers throughout Europe.

'NOPEF and its President Lars Myhre have been leaders in 
the organisation of offshore workers from the very start', 
stated ICEM General Secretary Vic Thorpe.  'They are 
continuing to set the trend for better working condtions 
for oil workers all over the world.  NOPEF's just struggle 
is vital to us all and an example for us all.'


ICEM UPDATE is published by the International Federation 
of Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers' Unions 
(ICEM) avenue Emile de Beco 109 B-1050 Brussels, Belgium

Tel. + 32 2 626 20 20
Fax + 32 2 648 43 16
Internet : icem@geo2.poptel.org.uk

Editor : Ian Graham, Information Officer
Publisher : Vic Thorpe, General Secretary

.
<hr>23/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-162</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B026-30</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108173704 text/html 1783
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:35:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1625
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Appeal for visits from Mersey Dockers
Date: Sat, 08 Jun 1996 01:36:07 +0100 (BST)

From: "LabourNet"  chrisbailey 
Subject: Appeal for visits from Mersey Dockers

Appeal to the international labour movement

Liverpool dockworkers' international fund-raising visits

Dear Comrades,

Our struggle has reached a critical stage and your support has been
a major factor in our fight for reinstatement back into our port. It
is our sincere belief that we are very close to a historic victory
for the Liverpool dockworkers, their families and all of their many
supporters. 

As we move into what we hope will be the final lap of our campaign it
is clear that financial help and aid is still very much required if
we are to continue to sustain and maintain our families. Could we
therefore once again ask your organisations to discuss with their
committees and other unions within your region the possibility of
organising fundraising visits from the sacked Liverpool dockworkers.

Yours fraternally,

Jimmy Nolan
Chairman, Mersey Port Shop Stewards Committee

Telephone:  +44 151 207 3388
         Fax:  +44 151 207 0696

or Email via LabourNet  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 

.
<hr>24/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-163</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B026-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108173754 text/html 1881
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:37:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1723
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: jagdish@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: (Fwd) Death of Mr Abiola's wife - N
Date: 06 Jun 1996 08:52:29

From: "Jagdish Parikh"  jagdish@igc.apc.org 
Subject: (Fwd) Death of Mr Abiola's wife - Nigeria

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------
Date:          Wed, 5 Jun 1996 15:35:03 -0200
Reply-to:      cospress@wn.apc.org
From:          NOWETU@cosatu.org.za ()
To:            Multiple recipients of list  cospress@wn.APC.ORG 
Subject:       Death of Mr Abiola's wife - Nigeria

COSATU PRESS STATEMENT ON THE DEATH OF MRS ABIOLA- Nigeria

COSATU learnt with shock the news that Mr Moshood Abiola 's wife was
murdered yesterday.  We condemn this killing.

COSATU makes a call to the United Nations to conduct an International
investigation around the killing of Mrs Abiola.  We re-iterate our
demands  :

*The people of Nigeria must put pressure on the Abacha regime to
allow democracy to take its course. 
*Release of all political prisoners. 
*Respect for human and trade union rights.
 Legalise the Nigerian Labour Congress

We hope that the Western Countries and the United States will impose
sanctions against the military junta and ensure that  Nigeria returns
to democratic rule.

Nowetu Mpati
COSATU Head of Communications

Tel:    + 27 + 11 + 339-4911
Fax:    + 27 + 11 + 339-2281
E-mail: nowetu@cosatu.org.za

.
<hr>25/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-164</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B026-189</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108173915 text/html 7037
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:37:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6879
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: jagdish@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: HABITAT: Workers Build Cities, But
Date: 07 Jun 1996 09:37:32 -0800 (PST)

From: Jagdish Parikh  jagdish@igc.apc.org 
Subject: HABITAT: Workers Build Cities, But Are Denied Their Benefits

/* Written  3:44 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "HABITAT: Workers Build Cities, But" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 31-May-96 ***

Title: HABITAT: Workers Build Cities, But Are Denied Their Benefits

By Johanna Son

ISTANBUL, May 31 (IPS) - The world's workers may help make soaring
hubs of commerce out of cities, but often share little in the
benefits of their economic growth, trade union leaders said
Friday.

At a trade union forum organised in preparation for the Habitat
II Conference on Human Settlements next week, workers' groups
concluded that the growth of cities over the last 20 years since
the first Habitat conference had given back scant economic
benefits to the workers who helped build them.

''Market forces have failed to create or improve housing for
working people and their families,'' said Sunil Prasad of the
Belgian-based International Confederation of Free Trade Unions
(ICFTU), the world's biggest union group with 127 million members
in 136 countries.

In many cities, workers and their families are among those who
lack adequate shelter and decent living conditions but need to
live near their places of employment.

Some 1.1 billion people live in absolute poverty worldwide,
including 700 million people holding marginal jobs. Likewise,
there are 500 million urban dwellers worldwide who are homeless or
live in inadequate housing.

''The people who live in the worst parts of cities are often the
workers because they can't afford to live anywhere else,'' said
Ridvan Budak of the Confederation of Turkish Trade Unions.

Even as cities have risen to the forefront of their countries'
growth in recent decades, people ranging from factory workers,
vendors and even policeman can today be found living in so-called
'informal settlements' due to lack of access to affordable housing
in expensive cities.

Clearly, ICFTU said in a position paper for Habitat II,
''economic growth alone will not resolve the need for better human
settlements''.

''Notwithstanding the sweeping economic reforms, there is massive
unemployment in urban areas in developing countries. There has
been rapid growth in the number of workers in low productive,
informal employment such as agriculture, construction, trade and
commerce,'' the ICFTU pointed out.

Experts have pointed to the emergence of the informal sector in
recent decades, people whose work is essential to functioning of
modern city economies but who are not included in government
planning or official statistics.

And despite their acknowledged economic contribution to the
smooth functioning of cities, they are often at the bottom of the
urban economic ladder, working in less than ideal situations and
living in settlements with little or no basic services like
electricity or water.

Seyhan Erdogdu of the Turkish Union of Road Construction and
Building Workers said Habitat II can issue a good action plan, but
believes the means to implement it will be limited by the world's
excessive focus on market forces over social investments.

''Will those plans be condemned to stay on paper?'' he asked,
saying communities' efforts after the Habitat II will continue to
be hampered by ''too much deregulation and doing away with the
social state'', which leaves many city residents, workers
included, to fend for themselves.

The race for competitiveness among cities, spurred by
globalisation, has contributed to what the Czech Republic-based
World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) says is governments'
drastic cutbacks on social welfare programmes despite commitments
to do otherwise, made at the March 1995 World Summit on Social
Development.

Still, workers are a key factor that can be tapped in increasing
the liveability of cities, especially in infrastructure and
housing investments.

WFTU said: ''There is now considerable unemployment all over the
world and particularly in the building trades in the urban areas,
due to the prolonged recession and lack of investment. Housing
projects can help create more jobs in urban areas as well as serve
a social need, responding to the acute housing shortage.''

In this area, WFTU added, there is a ''close inter-relationship
between the right to work and the right to housing, the two human
rights which are, in essence, closely interlinked''.

The ICFTU agreed, saying ''the construction industry has an
enormous potential to become a major stimulus to economic growth
and unemployment''.

Matthias Hundsalz, officer-in-charge of the U.N. Commission on
Human Settlements' research and development division, said the
draft Habitat Global Plan of Action does deal with labour issues.

Among others it seeks governments' stronger commitment to
providing migrant workers and their families access to adequate
housing and greater focus on training workers, though he conceded
that more progress could have been made on Habitat issues since
the 1976 Vancouver conference.

Still, the ICFTU remained cautious: ''Few governments have lived
up to political commitments'' made at the Vancouver conference.

''Human development has received little attention, and the social
sector is considered a peripheral welfare activity rather than a
central pivot on which the success of economic planning rests,''
Prasad pointed out.

Until governments reverse the decline of social investments,
efforts to improve the quality of life of city residents, workers
included, will remain a difficult task. (END/IPS/JS/RJ/96)


Origin: LONAIST/HABITAT/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>26/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-165</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B026-297</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108174047 text/html 8956
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:39:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8798
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: jagdish@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ILO at Habitat II (Istambul)
Date: 07 Jun 1996 15:08:22

From: "Jagdish Parikh"  jagdish@igc.apc.org 

Address by Ms. Katherine Hagen, Deputy Director General of the
International Labour office to the Second United Nations Conference
on Human Settlements (Habitat II)

Istanbul, 6 June 1996

Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements,
Distinguished delegates,
Ladies and gentlemen,

        As it is the last in this decade's series of major summit-
level UN Conferences. This conference has the responsibility for
bringing together the range of thematic issues addressed by the
previous Conferences as they are played out at the local level.
Habitat II is also linking global and local issues in innovative
ways creating new opportunities for local actors to be involved in
the Conference itself and in the follow-up process. Given the
importance of employment to the issues addressed by this Conference,
the ILO has been actively supporting the Habitat II preparatory
process and brings to this Conference a special tripartite
perspective of its own.

        The ILO is also unique in that throughout its seventy-seven
year history, its members have been not only Governments, but also
representative organizations of employers and workers. The ILO's
tripartite constituency cannot but strengthen and legitimize the
results of Habitat II.

        We have now before us a framework in the form of the Habitat
Agenda and its Global Plan of Action. We are committing ourselves to
achieving our goals at the international, national and local levels,
by developing new ways of working together, by bringing together the
public and private sectors and by involving local communities,
neighborhoods and civil society. The real job now lies ahead of us.

        We have heard, over and over, that more than half of the
world's population will be urban dwellers by the beginning of the
twenty-first century. A growing urban population inevitably means a
growing urban labour force. Currently 2.3 billion people are
economically active. The ILO projects that another 1.2 billion
people will be added to the world's labour force by the year 2025.
The overwhelming majority of the jobs that will be required to match
this increasing supply of workers will have to be created in our
cities. We also anticipate that almost all of this addition to the
world's labour force, in fact 99 per cent, will be in today's low
and middle income countries.

        The changing structure of employment also means that urban
areas will take on greater importance as future centers of
employment. In the developed countries, mainly urban based service
activities now account for nearly 60 per cent of all employment.
While in the developing countries, the share of nonagricultural
employment grew by 93 per cent between 1950 to 1990 and now accounts
for nearly 40 per cent of all employment.

        Changes in the types of jobs in the formal sector do not
reflect what is happening in the informal sector. Despite the
overall growth of the modern sector, in many parts of the developing
world this has not been sufficient to absorb the ever growing urban
labour force. As a result the urban informal sector is now a major
employer. In sub-Saharan Africa, the urban informal sector is
estimated to employ over 60% of the urban labour force. In Latin
America and the Caribbean it is estimated that 83 out of every 100
new jobs created between 1990 and 1993 were in the informal sector.
Many of these jobs are poorly remunerated, unsafe and of low
productivity.

        Women in particular are adversely affected by these
deteriorating labour market trends. In Africa, the rates of open
urban unemployment for women are often double those for men and
continue to rise. In transitional economies, the closure of state
enterprises and the shift towards a market based economy have
resulted in high levels of female unemployment. By way of example,
during the early years of this decade, women made up 62 and 78 per
cent of all registered unemployed in eastern Germany and in Russia
respectively.

        These historic shifts are having a profound impact on the
growth of poverty and social exclusion, which are at the core of
many of the urban ills, and a threat to the sustainability of our
cities. Productive employment is one of the best means available of
combating poverty and to ensure that the required basic investments
and urban services are affordable and therefore self-sustaining.

        Similarly building, upgrading and maintaining shelter can
have a strong employment impact. From micro-enterprises based in
urban slums and informal settlements, to those working out of their
homes with telephones and computers, to the majority of the world's
women who still bear the burden of unpaid domestic work, the home
and the workplace are one and the same.

        In Turin, Italy, last year, the ILO held an International
Symposium on the Future of Urban Employment, which brought together
representatives from national and local governments, and from
employers' and workers' organizations to stimulate discussion on
these issues. The Symposium concluded with the adoption of an Urban
Employment Charter, which is available to this Conference, and which
recognizes the crucial role of local authorities in creating
employment. This charter offers a number of practical solutions
which the ILO will be actively promoting for the implementation of
the Habitat Agenda.

        The Charter calls for the creation of local public-private
sector alliances for employment creation. Enterprise development,
particularly of small and medium enterprises, can be major
generators of new jobs. In the crucial area of human resource
development, such partnerships have already become widespread, with
private sector enterprises playing a major role in defining and
providing skills training for the future.

        These new alliances are helping to adapt the workforce to
the requirements of the changing workplace in a globalizing and
increasingly competitive environment.

        What other strategies will we need to combat unemployment,
poverty and social exclusion? The ILO believes that the promotion of
employment-intensive growth is one such a strategy. Employment-
intensive investment policies are perhaps the most powerful tool at
the disposal of municipal authorities. Developing countries invest
$200 billion annually in infrastructure, about one-fifth of total
investments. A labour intensive approach to building municipal
infrastructure and providing services can be a cost-effective and
high-quality alternative to traditional equipment-based investment
policies.

        The Habitat II Dialogue on The Future of Urban Employment
which was held yesterday brought together a diversity of actors and
viewpoints to debate these questions. Together with the discussions
that have taken place elsewhere. Wealth of ideas have been generated
which the ILO will carefully examine with a view to making its
commitment to social justice fit the requirements of an urban
future.
 
        Just as the world we are living in is rapidly becoming an
urban world, a world of cities - it is also becoming a world of
divides, with seemingly entrenched divisions between rich
neighborhoods and poor neighborhoods, between the employed and
unemployed, between the socially privileged and the socially
excluded, and between the good jobs and the bad jobs. This situation
cannot go on. If left untreated, it will lead to a downward spiral
of injustice, economic decay and social instability. It is the goal
of both the ILO and that of the Second United Nations Conference on
Human Settlements to reverse this trend and turn cities of want and
despair into cities of work and hope. Let us join together to
advance the objectives of adequate shelter for all and of
sustainable human settlements by committing ourselves to creating
and protecting full, productive and appropriately remunerated
employment and work.
------------------------------------------------------------
Source: Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements Text
of Plenary Statements ,UNCHS Habitat II Web Site
(<a href=http://www.un.org/Conferences/habitat/>http://www.un.org/Conferences/habitat/</a>
-------------------------------------------------------------
.
<hr>27/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-166</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B027-30</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108174143 text/html 7582
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:40:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7424
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: mikerhodes@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Campaign for Labor Rights Alert
Date: 08 Jun 1996 15:44:02 -0800 (PST)

Content-type: text/plain
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

ALERT!!!  Clothing Industry Summit, July 16 in DC
PLEASE SIGN AND RETURN ENCLOSED LETTER

CAMPAIGN FOR LABOR RIGHTS calls upon U.S. Secretary of Labor
Robert Reich to make the most of the opportunity offered by the
clothing industry summit.

Background Information:

At a joint press conference with Kathie Lee Gifford on May 31,
U.S. Labor Secretary Robert Reich announced a summit of the
clothing industry for July 16, in Washington, DC.

The announcement comes at a time of unprecedented media coverage
of international labor rights issues in the industry.  It also is
a time of remarkable change.
 
In December, the National Labor Committee (NLC) and The Gap
clothing chain signed a groundbreaking agreement providing for
independent human rights monitoring of Gap production facilities. 
That victory was the product of months of public pressure.

This week, television hostess Kathie Lee Gifford signed an
agreement with NLC.  She will be urging Wal-Mart, which retails
Kathie Lee and other clothing lines, to allow independent
monitoring of its contractors' production facilities.  This
victory came only weeks after NLC's Charles Kernaghan criticized
the Kathie Lee line for exploiting child labor, in testimony
before Congress.

Now NLC and UNITE garment workers' union have turned up the heat
on Wal-Mart.  And Gifford has pressured other celebrities to take
the high road in seeing to it that products associated with their
name are manufactured under fair conditions.  Among those she
named as needing to take more responsibility was Michael Jordan,
who earns millions from his NIKE endorsements.  NIKE is coming
under increasing scrutiny, including an article by Sydney
Schanberg (author of The Killing Fields) in the current Life
Magazine.  Schanberg's article on Asian child labor (much of it
slave labor) features children sewing NIKE soccer balls for only
pennies a day.

The Labor Department's clothing summit comes at a perfect time. 
Manufacturers and retailers, accustomed to stonewalling on human
rights issues, have begun to realize that they need to take labor

rights into account.  When the industry giants see their
expensively crafted images crumbling in the face of revelations
about outsourcing practices, suddenly doing the right thing
becomes a bottom-line concern.  In the name of competitiveness,
the industry has raced to outsource through sleazy subcontractors
backed up by repressive governments.  But now, by showing the
sweatshop reality behind the PR image, labor advocacy groups have
proved that consumer anger can cost retailers more than is saved
cheating their workers.  The clothing summit is an opportunity
for labor advocates to talk directly with the industry and to
argue for enlightened self-interest.

A great opportunity will be lost if the summit focuses narrowly
on domestic labor issues -- not that these are trivial:  As Reich
points out, there are 11,000 sweatshops tucked away in major
cities all over the U.S.  However, international outsourcing to
sweatshop conditions is the greatest engine driving industry
standards lower.

Another key question about the summit is whether independent
human rights monitoring of production facilities will be on the
agenda for discussion.  The Clinton administration tilts toward
industry self-monitoring.  Recent revelations about sweatshop
conditions demonstrate all too clearly the inadequacy of self-
monitored codes of conduct.

PLEASE SIGN THE FOLLOWING LETTER TO SECRETARY REICH.  Print it,
sign it and send it.  If you wish, you may send it directly to
the Department of Labor.  We prefer that you return your signed
letter to Campaign for Labor Rights, 1247 "E" St. SE, Washington,
DC 20003.  We will bundle the responses together and forward them
to Reich.

If you have a special concern about any country or region or
about child labor, slave labor, exploitation of women or any
other issue related to the clothing industry, PLEASE ADD A BRIEF
HANDWRITTEN NOTE IN THE MARGIN OF THIS LETTER.
 
This letter was written and posted by CAMPAIGN FOR LABOR RIGHTS,
a project of the Nicaragua Network Education Fund.  We promote
greater cooperation among solidarity groups and stronger links
between labor, solidarity and peace & justice activists.  We
provide a bridge between local activists and a growing roster of
organizations initiating labor rights campaigns.  We seek to
globalize the struggle for labor rights by supporting campaigns

focused on countries around the world as well as here at home. 
Members receive our newsletter and action packets throughout the
year.  For more information, contact:  Campaign for Labor Rights,
1247 "E" Street SE, Washington, DC 20003, clr@igc.apc.org (202)
544-9355 (daytime) or (541) 344-5410 (evenings and weekends).
 
Hon. Robert Reich, Secretary of Labor
U.S. Labor Department
200 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20210
 
Dear Secretary Reich:

I was pleased to learn of the clothing summit, to be held in
Washington, DC on July 16.  I support your decision to invite
representatives from organized labor and labor advocacy groups,
as well as manufacturers, retailers and celebrities associated
with particular lines of clothing.  Change -- positive change --
is coming to the clothing industry.  The National Labor Committee
agreements with The Gap and (more recently) with Kathie Lee
Gifford were landmarks for the industry.  The July summit can
help to move this process forward.

I am writing to voice two special concerns regarding the summit. 
First, I hope that you will include an international focus in
this meeting.  The clothing industry operates globally.  Its
international outsourcing sets a baseline (a low one) for wages,
working conditions and the right to organize.  The lower that
international baseline, the greater the downward pressure on U.S.
clothing production facilities.  As Labor Secretary, you have the
authority to address an issue which so clearly impacts U.S.
workers.  Like you, I am repelled by conditions in many of the
third world subcontracting facilities supplying clothing for
export to this country.  The July summit is an opportunity to
help bring global justice to the clothing industry.

Second, I trust that there will be an opening for discussion of
independent human rights monitoring of production facilities. 
That is, and will remain, a central demand of any campaign
conducted by labor rights advocacy organizations.  Anything short
of independent monitoring is unacceptable to the workers who have
suffered so much in sweatshop conditions.

Thank you for your attention.  I will be following with great
interest any news regarding the clothing industry summit.  Let's

hope that we will look back upon it as one more step toward
justice for garment workers.

Sincerely,

 

 

Name (print):

 

Street:

 

City, State, ZIP:

 

Phone, email:


.
<hr>28/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-167</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B027-101</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108174239 text/html 6986
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:41:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6828
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ITF ACTION WEEK REL NO 6
Date: 10 Jun 1996 14:08:00

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)


This is the sixth "Action week" release from the International Transport
Workers' Federation (ITF).  

We have established this Internet list as an adjunct to the fax list that 
we
normally use.  If you are receiving this and if you do not want to receive
information from the ITF, please reply to this message to that effect. 
Similarly, if you want to alter the address or add additional Internet 
addresses
or if you wish further information, please feel free to respond to this 
message.
 The Communications Department of the ITF will reply to all enquiries 
within 24
hours that are sent by e-mail.

For further information about the week of action or any media related 
business
please contact the ITF Communications' Secretary Richard Flint or the ITF
Communications Department.

Our working hours are from 9:00 till 17:00 hours London, UK time (which is
presently GMT plus 1), but though our switchboard is unstaffed after 
17:00 hours
London time, you can usually contact the Communications Department up 
till 18:00
hours London time by the use of the direct phone number +44 171 940 9258. 
  You
can, of course, send e-mail anytime.

The International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) is a federation of 
470
transport workers' trade unions in over 120 countries, representing more 
than
five million workers. It is one of fifteen International Trade 
Secretariats
allied with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU).
Founded in 1896, it is organised in eight industrial sections: seafaring, 
docks,
railways, road transport, civil aviation, inland navigation, fisheries and
tourism services. It represents the interests of transport workers at 
world
level through its input into international solidarity.

International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF)
49-60 Borough Road
London, England, SE1 1DS
Tel: +44 171-403-2733/Fax: +44 171-357-7871
Internet: info@itf.org.uk
Webpage:  <a href=http://www.itf.org.uk>http://www.itf.org.uk</a>


Action week URL: :  <a href=http://www.itf.org.uk/english/nefw.html>http://www.itf.org.uk/english/nefw.html</a>



International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) action week
Boycotts in Bremen, Hamburg and Rotterdam


(ITF London, June 7) The International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF)
action against Flag of convenience (Foc) and substandard shipping in
North-western Europe came to a successful close today with successful 
boycott
actions in Bremen, Hamburg and as usual Rotterdam.

In Bremen the Maltese flag, Greek-owned Aspilos was boycotted for two and 
a half
hours and negotiations are under way.

In Hamburg, boycott actions was taken against the Panamanian flag Taza 
which is
owned by the government of Morocco.  A go-slow boycott action has 
resulted in an
agreement from the government of Morocco to either flag back the to 
Moroccan
national flag and apply the Moroccan national collective bargaining 
agreement or
alternatively to adopt an ITF standard agreement.  In fact, the ITF 
strongly
prefers the former solution since it does actually represent one of the 
cases
where the ITF has successfully driven a shipowner back to a national flag.

Boycott action was also taken in Hamburg against the Liberian flag Green 
Cape.

Meanwhile events have been continuing in Rotterdam where local 
dockworkers end
their activities this afternoon for a celebration at the ITF Rotterdam 
office. 
Considering the number of boycotts they have waged and given the fact 
that the
ITF action week has coincided with a heat wave in North-western Europe, 
one can
only wish the Rotterdam celebrators well.

The boycott of the Euromantique (which we misspellt as Euromantic in some
releases yesterday) was settled yesterday afternoon in Flushing with an
agreement to sign a fleet agreement with Crescent Shipping of the UK.  
Boycott
action was taken against the Alan W in Rotterdam for three hours, but 
without
concluding an agreement it was decided to lift the action.

Action was also taken against the Egon Oldendorff-owned, Liberian flag 
Baltic
Mermaid which was boycotted yesterday for one hour until the lawyer 
working for
Oldendorff promised to negotiate an agreement.  Another Oldendorff ship 
that was
loading next to the Baltic Mermaid has also been boycotted as part of the
overall action.  The Oldendorff promise represents a major victory for 
the ITF
which has been seeking agreements for this vessel for many years.

The most dramatic Rotterdam actions took place today against the Antigua 
and
Barbudan flag Tangier and Opdr Tejo.  Access by the ITF crew to the 
waterside
was prevented by the shutting of the gates and consequently the unions 
chartered
a boat and boarded the vessel from the sea.  The lawyer acting for the 
owners
has agreed to negotiate agreements.  Because of its dramatic nature which
involved over 45 Dutch dockworkers boarding a German-owned ship, the 
action
generated a lot of interest and publicity.  Crews from all of the 
Rotterdam
television stations filmed the action and a large number of police 
arrived who
in a typically Dutch fashion expressed their support for the dockworkers 
and
explained that they were simply keeping an eye out for problems.  The 
action was
ended at 2pm since the union had received a formal guarantee that 
negotiations
would take place within a week.  The action also conveniently concluded 
just in
time for the ITF celebrations.

"We have perfect solidarity and assistance from the dockers and if we 
need it in
the future we will have it again," said ITF Netherlands Co-ordinator Ruud
Touwen.

"The action week was a great success establishing the ITF as a major 
presence in
the ports of the region.  The end of the week of action is only the 
beginning of
a revitalisation of the campaign world-wide.  Boycott actions in North 
West
European ports do not end today.  Shipowners should realise that there 
will be
similar events in the very near future - next time there won't be any 
warnings!"
said ITF Assistant General Secretary Mark Dickinson.

The ITF will be issuing a statement and press release giving a more 
detailed
analysis of the week of actions early next week.

For further information, please contact ITF Communications' Department 
Secretary
Richard Flint on 0171 940 9258.

ends


.
<hr>29/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-168</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B027-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108174333 text/html 3523
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:42:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3365
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: UK:LIVERPOOL DOCKERS REJECT OFFER
Date: 10 Jun 1996 14:09:00

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)


7.6.96

A mass meeting of more than 400 Mersey dockers today supported the
recommendation of their stewards and voted to reject a new offer by
Mersey Docks & Harbour Company. There was only one vote against
rejection. The written offer was submitted by the company to the
Mersey Port Stewards on tuesday via ACAS. It was worse than a verbal
offer made earlier.

Under the deal all 329 previous employees of MD&HC would be
re-employed (not reinstated) on a fixed term four week contract.
They would not work but would be paid 1000 pounds for the four weeks.
During the four weeks they would be required to indicate whether they
wished to continue working for the company or except severance pay.

Those accepting severance would receive 25,000 pounds. For those
wishing to work for MD&HC there would be 60 jobs immediately. The
company would also offer voluntary severance to scabs in some areas
and to some other men not involved directly in the dispute and they
estimated that another 40 jobs would become available from this. This 
added up to 20 less than verbal offers from the company of "120 
jobs" and the company gave no explanation of the difference.

The company reserved the right to decide the "suitability" of anyone 
applying for re-employment. All those not accepting severance and not 
re-employed would be redundant. The scheme only covered the former 
employees of MD&HC. There was no offer for the 130 men formerly 
employed by other companies.

The company insisted that the offer had to be put to a secret ballot 
and that if arrangements were not in hand for this by June 18 or if 
the ballot rejected the offer then it would be permanently withdrawn.

The company stressed, as it has with all previous offers, that this 
was their "final offer".

Mersey stewards complained that negotiating via ACAS was difficult 
because of the complexities of the situation and tonight offered to 
meet the company "face to face" to try to clarify some aspects of the 
situation.

It was seen by the stewards as significant that the company faxed a 
copy of the offer to John Bowers, President of the International 
Longshoremens' Union on the US east coast. The company is still 
anxious concerning international action taken by dockers against its 
biggest customer ACL. On wednesday Swedish dockers held up an ACL 
ship for 12 hrs in support of the Liverpool men and have now given 
notice that they intend implementing a complete boycott of ACL ships.
Report by LabourNet

Labour movement organisations and publications are welcome to reproduce 
our material,
but we would like an acknowledgement. 

The Mersey dockers' World Wide Web page including their newspaper,
"Dockers Charter" is on URL:

<a href=http://www.gn.apc.org/labournet/docks/>http://www.gn.apc.org/labournet/docks/</a>

.
<hr>30/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-169</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B027-230</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108174435 text/html 9618
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:43:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9460
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ARG:APPEAL FOR ACTION
Date: 10 Jun 1996 14:09:43

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (Simon Bolton)



On Sun, 9 Jun 96 22:17 BST-1, jplant@cix.compulink.co.uk (Jj Plant)
wrote:

>(Copied from Marxism list)
>
>I have just received the following request for 
>support and solidarity for
>comrades jailed for fighting unemployment in an 
>increasingly repressive
>Argentina.
>
>Please respond and spread the request.
>
>Protests will reach Menem by way of any Argentine 
>embassy, or if they're
>addressed to him at Casa Rosada, Buenos Aires, 
>Argentina.
>
>
>__________________________________________________
>_____________
>
>Jailed For Fighting Unemployment
>Release Panario and Alcides Christiansen Now
>
>The Argentine government of Carlos Menem and the 
>provincial governments,
>the police and the legal system of Argentina is 
>escalating its repression.
>They are responding to the social problems and 
>the protests of workers
>pushed by the crisis and the application of the 
>economic plan dictated by
>the International Monetary Fund. The real level 
>of unemployment is 25% in a
>country which has practically no unemployment 
>benefit. In these conditions
>sectors of workers are resisting and struggling: 
>resisting the closure of
>private factories, the loss and deregulation of 
>public sector work and
>demanding the payment of unemployment benefit.
>
>Over 300 workers are facing charges brought 
>against them because they have
>been active in protests and demonstrations 
>throughout the country.
>Meanwhile those who carried out tortures and 
>assassinations as part of the
>military dictatorship such as the Captain Astiz, 
>who assassinated the
>rench monks, are at liberty and not brought to 
>justice. The government is
>intent on persecuting and jailing honest workers 
>whose only crime is to
>assist workers demands in a desperate social 
>situation.
>
>Horacio Panario and Alcides Christiansen are 
>imprisoned in the province of
>Neuquen and Oscar Martinez is charged in Tierra 
>del Fuego. The cases in
>Neuquen have become special 'test cases' for the 
>government and the
>repressive legal system, with the threat of a 
>possible ten year jail
>sentence.
>
>They are applying laws inherited from the passed 
>military dictatorship,
>they are also using a charge called "coaccion 
>agravada" which has
>tremendous repressive consequences. It means that 
>any disturbances which
>take place on a demonstration, which have been 
>initiated many times by the
>police, the organisers are held responsible for.
>
>The province of Neuquen is one of the hardest hit 
>areas in the country.
>There is high unemployment amongst the 
>construction workers who are
>particularly effected the by ending of public 
>construction. The national
>population census for this area showed that 20% 
>of families were without
>basic necessities.
>
>In Neuquen, over 1,000 unemployed and their 
>families made a peaceful
>demonstration called by the Unemployed Workers 
>Co-ordination. The UWC had
>obtained a significant victory, which does not 
>exist in any other province
>of Argentina: a subsidy for the unemployed of 
>over 100. But the provincial
>government, because of the cut backs demanded by 
>the central government,
>decided to stop the subsidy.
>
>A delegation went from the demonstration of 2nd 
>October to the Governors
>house in order to speak to the governor, the 
>response was savage. The
>workers reacted valiantly in trying to stop the 
>attacks. In this process
>some of the police were hurt.
>
>Using these incidents as a pretext they arrested 
>Panario and Christiansen
>and order the arrest of Hector Etchebaxter, Jorge 
>Chiguay, Victor Sandoval
>and Veronica Barriga.
>
>The charge of "aggravated coaction"  carries a 
>ten year sentence and no bail
>was given to those arrested. This law was used by 
>the military dictatorship
>against the guerrillas and their supporters. 
>Today the government uses the
>same laws against the mobilisations and struggles 
>of workers.
>
>This law is used in an arbitrary way which 
>transcends the normal
>judicial processes. The judge has refused to 
>receive the declaration of
>Panario or consider the testimony of the defence.
>
>Panario is held under cruel conditions, imposed 
>by the judge. He is alone
>in his cell which measures 1.5 metres by 3 
>metres. The jail is in a small
>village 100s of kilometres from the capital where 
>his family and friends
>are. In winter this area is usually cut off by 
>snow making it impossible
>for anyone to visit, it is difficult under the 
>conditions to visit now. The
>judge has refused permission for Panario to be 
>moved to the capital.
>Panario is a member of the Movement To Socialism 
>(MAS) and Christiansen was
>a presidential candidate for the MAS in the last 
>elections. He was also the
>General Secretary of the Construction Workers 
>Union. Etchebaxter was a
>candidate of the MST(Socialist Workers Movement) 
>and Chiquay was also a
>member of that party.
>
>Persecution in Tierra del Fuego
>
>The province in the extreme south of Argentina is 
>a centre of engineering
>and electronics. There repression was directed 
>against Oscar Martinez
>Organising Secretary of the Engineering Workers 
>Union, who lead the
>struggle against the closure of factories.
>
>On 31 March 1995 in Ushuaia the most southerly 
>city in the world and
>capital of Tierra del Fuego engineering workers 
>marched to the capital in
>protest against the closing of the factory. The 
>police attacked the
>demonstration. This resulted in the charging of 
>Oscar Martinez, Fabian
>Magdalena, Angel Valle and Eduardo Setzes.
>
>On the 11th and 12th April the police mounted an 
>assault on the workers
>occupying the Continental factory which led to 
>the death of one worker
>and numerous injuries and arrests.
>
>The judiciary tried to blame the death of the 
>worker on Oscar Martinez
>and if found quilty by the court he would face a 
>sentence of many years.
>Sentences already passed have resulted in jail 
>sentences of up to one year
>which have been turned into forced labour 
>clearing snow from the streets.
>
>We are asking you to send a post card to Horacio 
>Panario and Alcides
>Christiansen to show your solidarity with their 
>struggle.
>Horacio Panario
>Division de Transito
>(Policia de Neuquen - Zapata)
>Ruta 22, 8240 Zapala
>Prov. de Neuquen
>Argentina
>
>Alcides Christiansen
>Unidad de Detencion No 11
>Pabellon 5 Celda 4
>Parque Industrial
>8300 Neuquen
>Argentina
>
>Demand the release of Alcides Christiansen and 
>Horacio Panario
>We are asking the trade union, labour movement, 
>human right and political
>organisations to demand the release of all 
>working class leaders and in
>particular the release of Alcides Christiansen 
>who is on hunger strike and
>Horacio Panario.
>
>On 24th May Alcides Christiansen began a hunger 
>strike demanding:
>
>His release and the release of Horacio Panario 
>and the cessation of
>persecutions.
>
>The punishment of those responsible for the 
>killing of workers and youth.
>The ending of all repression and police attacks 
>on workers.
>
>Please write letters of protest to:
>
>President Menem of Argentina, c/o The Argentine 
>Embassy, 53 Hans Place,
>London SW1.
>
>National and International Solidarity
>
>1,000s of signatures and letters protests have 
>already been sent including:
>The International Dockers Conference held in 
>Liverpool in February 1996,
>Jeremy Corbyn Labour MP, a number of French 
>unions including the Sud-PTT
>(Post Office Workers), Lula and Vincentinho of 
>the Workers Party of Brazil,
>leaders of the CUT (the TUC in Brazil), Brazilian 
>Oil Workers leader Carlos
>Spiz, Marcial Canterio Gen. Sec. of the STS trade 
>union of Paraguay, Dr
>Octavio Rodriguez of the EZLN (Zapatists).
>
>The most recent demonstration in Argentina was in 
>Neuquen on 22nd May lead
>by the education workers protested for wages and 
>against the labour reforms
>of the province. They marched to the governers 
>house and demounced the
>unemployment policies and demanded the release of 
>Horacio and Alcides.
>Many people have demanded to visit him including: 
>Adolfo Esquivel, Nobel
>Prize winner, Rogelio De Leonardis, Sec. gen of 
>the CTA of the north east
>region and many other union leaders including 
>from the building workers,
>Antonio Alac from the Argentine Communist Party, 
>Nora Ciaponi from the MAS.
>Campaign Against Repression In Argentina,PO BOX 
>7268, London E10 6TX is
>also supporting the campaign for the release of 
>the trade union and
>unemployed prisoners.
>
>
>International Socialist League
>British Section of the International Workers 
>League
>PO Box 9
>Eccles
>Salford
>M30 7FX
>
>Tel/fax 0161 707 1584
>email: socvoice@gn.apc.org
>
>
>
>
>     --- from list 
>marxism@lists.village.virginia.edu ---
>

:=====================================================
:Chris Croome
:Sheffield, UK
:chris@atomism.demon.co.uk
:=====================================================



.
<hr>31/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-170</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B028-35</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108174530 text/html 3031
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:44:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2873
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: jagdish@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Global Technologies: Displace Worke
Date: 10 Jun 1996 20:59:09 -0800 (PST)

From: Jagdish Parikh  jagdish@igc.apc.org 
Subject: Global Technologies: Displace Workers or Create New Jobs?

This is a multi-part message in MIME format.

--------------7AB1257264FC
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

gopher://gopher.igc.apc.org:70/00/pubs/earthtimes/earthtimes/165

--------------7AB1257264FC
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Disposition: inline; filename="165"

Title: Global Technologies: Displace Workers or Create New Jobs?
By Siddhartha Prakash
) Earth Times News Service
ISTANBUL--With the advent of new technological revolutions, the urban
labor force 
has undergone radical structural changes. Modern technology began 
displacing labor in the 1970s, with the introduction of Ford-type 
production lines. Cities in developed countries were struck hard by de-
industrialization, since most manufacturing was located in cities. The 
global shift in demand for electronics related light footloose industries 
led to the decline of older heavy industries such as coal and steel. 
Over the past two decades, the United Kingdom's share of manufacturing 
employment declined by 43 percent, France's by 23 percent and Germany's
by 14 percent. This has created major problems for the workers previously
employed in manufacturing. Owing to their lack of technological skills, it 
has proved difficult to absorb these redundant men into the burgeoning 
service sector. 
Now with the globalization of the world economy in the era of 
liberalization, the consequences for urban labor markets are finally 
being questioned. The fear that machines will replace workers has waxed 
and waned since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. Hoe Lim from 
the ILO was concerned "that recent technological change has been skill 
biased and has greatly reduced the demand for low skilled workers." In 
Asia for instance, Green Revolution technologies in the form of 
mechanization displaced agricultural laborers. Similarly, the new 
Docklands Light Railway in London has replaced ticket operators with 
machines. However, Lim argued that technology has dual effects, "while 
it may substitute labor with capital, it also lowers costs, creates new 
products and services, which in turn generate new forms of employment". 
..

--------------7AB1257264FC--

.
<hr>32/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-171</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B028-120</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108174642 text/html 5440
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:45:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5282
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: jagdish@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: LABOUR-MEXICO: Dissident Teachers T
Date: 11 Jun 1996 07:20:57 -0800 (PST)

From: Jagdish Parikh  jagdish@igc.apc.org 
Subject: LABOUR-MEXICO: Dissident Teachers Twist Government's Arm

/* Written  3:41 PM  Jun 10, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "LABOUR-MEXICO: Dissident Teachers T" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 07-Jun-96 ***

Title: LABOUR-MEXICO: Dissident Teachers Twist Government's Arm

By Diego Cevallos

MEXICO CITY, Jun 7 (IPS) - Dissident teachers, striking in support
of demands for more pay, have scored a victory of sorts in forcing
the government to negotiate for the first time with an unofficial
trade union.

The teachers, from regions all over the country, are seeking a
100 percent hike in salary after rejecting a 12 percent increase
agreed on by the government-affiliated union of educators.
Demonstrations in support of their claims have gone on for nearly
two weeks, snarling traffic in the streets of the capital.

More than 20,000 demonstrators turned out three times to march
on the Ministry of Education - the largest protests seen here in
months.  The teachers set up tents on land near the Mintsry to
continue their protest.

The demonstrations pushed the government into agreeing to
negotiate for the first time with teachers who do not belong to
the union that for more than six decades has worked out wages with
the government.

''The ministry of education has a serious political and union-
relations problem on its hands,'' one labour analyst said

''Strategic alliances'' between Mexico's principal unions and
the long-ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, in power since
1929, and business associations, have meant thewre has been no
general strike here in 67 years.

Police action against the protesting teachers, which left more
than a dozen wounded, eased when President Ernesto Zedillo asked
Mexico City's police chief to resign. The chaos in the streets
caused by the protests, however, led to citizens swamping the
media with demands that authorities speed up negotiations.

The government argues it has insufficient funds to address the
teachers' demands, and is asking them to negotiate wage rises with
state officials. But the National Confederation of Educational
Workers refuses to accept that suggestion.

Teachers in Mexico earn an average of 266 dollars a month, not
enough to support a typical family of five, according to a study
by the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). The low
wages have made the profession less and less attractive for high
school graduates.

From the 1983-84 to the 1994-95 school year, registration in
teacher-training institutes dropped 40 percent, according to
official figures.

In Mexico, nearly six million people of the total population of
91 million are illiterate - 63 percent of them women. The
government earmarks 4.1 percent of the Gross Domestic Product for
education - but this is 3.9 percent less than the figure
recommended by the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation.


Analysts say government promises that Mexico will make major
progress in the medium-term are empty if the country fails to
remedy its educational problems. According to official figures,
only one of every 100 primary school students makes it into
university, and around 48 percent of the population never finishes
elementary school.

''The future is not promising, and dreams of entering the
'First World' are overly ambitious if the backwardness in
education is not overcome,'' said Pablo Lapati, a UNAM researcher
and adviser to the ministry of education.

The average number of school-years completed in Mexico is 6.7,
compared to 12.6 in the United States and Canada, the nation's
partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Mexico spends 110 dollars per head on education - 92.7 percent
less than its two northern partners.

''Our main disadvantage for competing with countries with
greater economic development lies in the much lower educational
level among our workers,'' said Lapati.  (END/IPS/trd-


Origin: Rome/LABOUR-MEXICO/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>33/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-172</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B029-2</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108174800 text/html 5791
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:46:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5633
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: appeal
Date: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 22:18:44 +0100 (BST)

From: TonyP@ntpcs.demon.co.uk (Tony Parker) (by way of Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org )


Wallsend People's Centre have received this appeal via Durham
NUM anyone interested please respond.

Dear Friends

As you may know early in May the NUM Durham area, organised the visit
to Britain of four Bosnian miners, please find enclosed a letter from
their union president which briefly outlines their difficult situation.

Since the return of this delegation to Bosnia, Bosnian miners have been forced
to take strike action since the authorities have not paid them the A335.00
per month that they were promised.  (Food prices in Bosnia, are about
the same as in Britain).

The also require assistance in raising the cash - =A3500 per miner - to
buy safety equipment for half of their members who are at present not working
for the lack of this equipment.

The Bosnian miners played a central role in defending their multi-
cultural communities and their union represents miners from all
ehtnic backgrounds.  They have a proud history of struggle against past
oppressions and Facism and the survival of their union is central to the
survival of the Trade Union Movement in Bosnia Herzegovina.

We are making an appeal to the trade union movement to come to their aid.
If you are able to help please send all financial donations payable to: The 
Tuzla Miners Aid Fund
c/o The Miners Hall
P O Box 6
Red Hill
Durham

If you require any further information please write to the above address

Yours in Solidarity



David Hopper






Autonomus Trade Union			Samostalni sindikat
of coal-mines workers			radnika Rudnika uglija
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovinia	Republike Bosne i Hercegovine
Republic committee			Republicki odbor




Dear Friends

The situation is very bad for miners throughout the countries of 
former Yogoslavia but worse of all in Bosnia.  Very briefly this
is our situation.

* 20,000 miners are actually able to work due to shortage of 
personal safety equipment and mining machinery.  Many of the
unemployed are soldiers who have now been demobilised.

* For four years miners received no wages, only a very rare food 
parcel.  From 1st Jan 1996 working miners now receive Dm70 (=A335) 
a month.  Non-working miners receive Dm30 a month.  Food prices
etc. are roughly the same as in western Europe.

* So called 'reconstruction funds' from international governments
will not include any provision for the welfare of miners or their
families.

* All co-operation between miners in the different parts of ex-
Yugoslavia were disrupted by the war but we are now rebuilding those
contacts.

In the past our union has always come to the assistance of working
people in need.  Over many years we have given genorously to people
in Vietnam, South Africa, South America and during the British 
miners' strike we gave one days' pay a month.

Even now we will not ask for charity but we must tell the truth.  
Throughout the war our union has fought for the basic principles
of trade unionism.  Now without international solidarity we
cannot maintain our union.

We need solidarity and help in three ways.

1. Support for an independent union.  We need financial and moral
support to maintain a functioning, independent union.  Most of the 
unions' property and equipment has either been destroyed or 
requisitioned during the war so we are left without copiers, faxes,
telephones, office equipment etc.  The poverty of our members
makes it impossible for us to restore these things so that we can
carry out our trade union activities.  We do not want to be 
dependent on government or mine management or on any political or 
religious group.  We need to be accepted into the appropriate
European and International trade union organisations.

2. Solidarity with the mining communities.  The war and poverty
has not just hurt the miners but also their families and communities.
We need the assistance of working people and their trade unions to
re-equip our schools, hospitals, clinics, libraries, etc and to 
restore a normal human existence.

3. Restoration of production.  We need Dm1000 to enable each non-
working miner to return to work. (Personal safety equipment - boots,
overalls, caps, lamps, as well as some mining machinery).

Throughout the war our union has always tried to defend all working 
people and many of our members have made great sacrifices in order
to maintain the right of all people to live and work together.  We
are confident that our principled defence miners in Crotia, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia, Slovenia and Macedonia who are prepared to
respect each others rights.

To do this we need the assistance of the working class movement
internationally.  We think you will agree that this is absolutely
normal for trade unionists to respond to the call for solidarity.
We are sure you will agree that the rebuilding of independent trade
unions in all the countries of ex-Yugoslavia is vital to the interests
of workers throughout Europe.

If you can assist us in any way please fax us or contact Durham
NUM, tel 0191 384 3515.

Best Wishes




Union President - Fikret Suljie

  


.
<hr>34/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-173</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B029-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108174901 text/html 3745
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:48:05 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3587
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: NIGERIA: REPRESSION OF UNIONS
Date: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 23:55:44 +0100 (BST)

From: sbolton@cix.compulink.co.uk (by way of Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org )



I have received a letter forwarded by Brighton Trades Council sent by 
the Campaign for Indpendent Unionism in Lagos Nigeria. It is as 
follows:

NIGERIA - NEW REPRESSION OF TRADE UNIONISTS

  You will have seen the recent case of the Nigerian Military junta's 
imprisonment of a 13 year old British boy, in order to capture his 
uncle. This is only the tip of the iceberg of repression in Nigeria.

In the past few days, Adam Oshiomole, the General Secretary of the 
Textile Workers Union and Biodun Olamasu, a leading trade union 
activist have been arrested, among others. Arrest means isolation, 
regular beatings and starvation. The usual diet is a cupful of beans 
in a bowl of water dished out to fifty prisoners. Many prisoners just 
die.

In response to student protest, the Military have dissolved the 
national structures of all Unions representing University staffs.

The British Government refuse to take any steps against the Nigerian 
dictatorship. Nigeria is a major client for arms and military 
supplies. Shell Oil works hand in glove with the dictatorship, making 
massive profits out of the destruction  and pollution of the Nigerian 
Delta. Any opposition is crushed. Following the judicial murder of 
Ken Sarawewa, oil workers leaders Frank Kokori and Milton Dabibi 
among many others, have been imprisoned without trial.

The Campaign for Independent Unionism is a campaign group comprising 
workers and activists in the Nigerian trade union movement. Its 
primary objective is the defense of democratic, trade union and 
economic rights of the Nigerian working class. We call upon you to 
give support to our demands.

                   -  Free all political prisoners

                   -  End military dictatorship in Nigeria now.

                   -  Sanctions against the Nigerian dictatorship

                   - An international boycott campaign against Shell.

We ask for your support. Send letter of protest to General Sanni 
Abacha, The Presidency, Aso Rock, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, 
Nigeria.

We also ask for your financial support to help us produce material 
for the campaign and support activists in Nigeria facing attack.

        With thanks for your solidarity, 

               Yinka Jeje (National Secretary , CIU)


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
please send copies of protests and messages of support to 

                CIU (Britain), PO Box 256, London SE11 5TH

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Brighton Trades Council have had links with CIU since last years TUC 
conference where they held a finge meeting. I understand that from 
next week a member of CIU will be in Britain and is willing to speak 
at meetings. If anyone wants to arrange a meeting then contact me ofn 
v.north@sussex.ac.uk and  I am prepaired to liase with them.
Val North
University of Sussex UNISON Branch
Area Steward
and Equalities Officer


.
<hr>35/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-174</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B029-165</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108174954 text/html 1315
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:49:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1157
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: 100660.1153@CompuServe.COM
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Demonstration in Bonn on Saturday
Date: 13 Jun 1996 23:55:49

From: David Hollis  100660.1153@CompuServe.COM  (by way of Chris Bailey  chrisbailey@gn.apc.org )

On Saturday a nationwide demonstration is going to take place against
the planned cut-backs in unemployement and social security benefits.


It looks like there is going to be a large turnout. Both my union,
the IGM (metal workers union) and the OeTV (public sector workers union)
have more people wanting to travel on their respective trains than seats.
I heard today that the IGM train, which can carry 1200, already has 
400 too many people who want to travel with it. Buses are going to have
to be laid on ...

More soon.

Regards,
Dave





.
<hr>36/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-175</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B030-14</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108175051 text/html 6499
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:50:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6341
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ILO Predicts Bleak Future For Urban
Date: 12 Jun 1996 12:59:04 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 
Subject: ILO Predicts Bleak Future For Urban Lab


/* Written  3:52 PM  May 30, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "HABITAT: ILO Predicts Bleak Future" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 27-May-96 ***

Title: HABITAT: ILO Predicts Bleak Future for Urban Labour

ATTN EDS: The publication of this note is embargoed until 00:01
GMT, May 29.

GENEVA, May 29 (IPS) - In one hundred years' time, the population
of the world will be squashed into cities of inequality and
poverty if the tide of increasing unemployment is not stemmed,
said the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Wednesday.

The ILO report asked the question of how work should be
organised and employment structured in the coming century, when
half the world population will be living in the cities, in order
to avoid this situation.

The agency also expressed concern over how to determine methods
of wealth distribution tp guarantee future social and political
stability.

They mentioned the increasing lack of worker organisation,
asking whether the unions were now a thing of the past, and
obsolete phenomenon of the industrial era.

However, the document did not contain many answers to its own
questions, nor did it come up with strategies to overcome the
problems, restriting itself to suggesting the development of ''a
new paradigm to guide international cooperation on the issue of
employment creation.''

It asked for extra funding on local, national and international
levels.

The proposal takes into account the decentralisation of
resources and invited the municipal authorities to evaluate public
and private investment policies, with the aim of maximising their
impact on employment, to meet social needs and to improve the
human environment.

The ILO report will be presented at the United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) starting on Jun. 3 in
Istanbul, Turkey.

The document warned that by the year 2000, nearly half the
world population will be living in the cities, while the number of
urban poor will have swollen to one billion.

At present, in absolute terms, the greatest concentrations of
urban population can be found in Asia.

But the highest indices of poverty of all the developing
countries are in the African cities, where 41 percent of the
population live below the poverty line.

The ILO said the increase of urban unemployment and the
urbanisation of poverty are parallel phenomena.

Joint director-general of the ILO, Katherine Hagan, said ''only
productive employment can break the vicious circle of urban
poverty which is taking root in cities all over the world.''

Cities are generally considered to be centres of production and
motors of economic growth. The urban areas make a proportionally
larger contribution to the Gross Domestic Product than their rural
counterparts.

In Kenya, 23 percent of the total population is urban, in
Nigeria the number is nearer 35 percent, and in India, 27.
However, the urban sector contribution to GDP in each of the three
nations is 70 percent.

Meanwhile, Greater Sao Paulo contains eight percent of the
total Brazilian population, and provides 35 percent of the
nation's GDP.

Based on these figures, the OIT said the cities are a resource
which must be developed in a sustainable manner, aiming for the
well-being and social justice of its inhabitants.

In the developing nations, most urban unemployment is actually
underemployment.

The active population is obliged to take up whatever economic
activity it can, even if this is unproductive or the pay is too
low, because many nations have no social protection systems, no
unemployment benefit nor training for the formal sector.

A survey in Ghana showed an unemployment rate of barely 1.6
percent of the population, though the rate of underemployment was
closer to 25 percent.

In Sub-Saharan Africa, more than 60 percent of the workforce,
with their incredibly low incomes, are employed in the urban
informal sector, in jobs like door to door sales and work in
illegal factories.

In Latin America and the Caribbean, 83 percent of the jobs
created between 1990 and 1993 were in the informal sector. The ILO
added that nearly all these jobs were probably badly paid, that
they were physically very demanding and not very productive.

The entity stated that the informal sector was a little
exploited resource pool both for urban and rural development.

In many nations, workers in the informal sector lack the most
basic infrastructure and services, and the legislation and the
licensing systems often only help to reinforce the illegality of
the activities.

However, the ILO stated that in the long term, municipal
planners must aim to direct the vast, disorganised informal sector
towards traditional economic development.

In order to achieve this objective, the UN agency proposed
professional reform, assitance towards the construction of union
organisations and access to credit and other basic materials.
(END/IPS/tra-so/sm/96)


Origin: Montevideo/HABITAT/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>37/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-176</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B030-80</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108175142 text/html 7681
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:50:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7523
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: ?s On Honduras Child Labor
Date: 12 Jun 1996 13:13:58 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 


/* Written  3:56 PM  Jun 10, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "HONDURAS-LABOUR: Envoy Says Claims" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 07-Jun-96 ***

Title: HONDURAS-LABOUR: Envoy Says Claims of Child Labour Exaggerated

by Peter Zirnite

WASHINGTON, Jun 7 (IPS) - Recent charges of widespread child
labour abuse in Honduras are exaggerated and now threaten tens of
thousands of jobs, according to the country's ambassador to the
United States.

''Every effort is being made to ensure there is no abuse or
exploitation,'' Ambassador Roberto Flores Bermudez told a crowded
press conference here Friday.

Flores said his government is concerned that ''the whole nation
has been painted as a place where sweatshop conditions are
tolerated,'' even though recent inspections of textile plants
showed that few children are employed there and those who are
enjoy full protection of Honduran law.

Labour rights activists, however, still insist child labour
abuse is prevalent. And they questioned the commitment of the
Honduran government and textile industry to protecting worker
rights, claiming they are more concerned about maintaining U.S.
trade benefits than the welfare of their workers.

The abuse of child labourers in the textile industry grabbed
the international spotlight late last month when a 15-year-old
Honduran girl appealed publicly to television celebrity Kathie Lee
Gifford to help end the exploitation of children in a factory that
makes clothing marketed under Gifford's name.

Speaking at a Capitol Hill news conference, Wendy Diaz depicted
miserable working conditions at the factory where she was employed
for two years making Kathie Lee sportswear for U.S. retail giant
Wal-Mart. She said she was among about 100 children, some as young
as 12 years old, who routinely worked 60 hours a week for 31 cents
an hour.

Diaz claimed the South Korean owners of the factory, Global
Fashion, threatened, physically abused and sexually harassed their
young workers.

Gifford, who hosts the day-time network talk show 'Live with
Regis and Kathie Lee', denied knowing of the conditions at the
Honduran sweatshop and another New York City factory which also
produces her line of clothing. Labour activists have reported
abuses there, as well.

Earlier this week, Gifford, Diaz, and officials from Honduran
human rights and U.S. labour unions issued a call for the Wal-Mart
to restore ties with Global Fashion which were severed when the
controversy was first exposed.

In a joint statement issued after a meeting in New York, they
said the retailer should resume its ties with Global Fashion
''providing that conditions at the plant consistently meet
standards that protect labour and human rights and that conditions
are monitored by independent organisations such as the Committee
for the Defence of Human Rights in Honduras.''

An inspection of the Global Fashion plant, conducted in
response to Diaz's allegations, showed that of 700 employees
there, only three were 14 to 16 years old, and all of whom were
working legally, Flores told reporters Friday.

The inspection, according to Flores, also revealed that working
conditions met national standards, contrary to Diaz's claims.

An earlier probe of all 200 textile-processing plants on the
Caribbean coast manufacturing zone in Honduras found that ''not
even one percent'' of the some 16,700 workers were under 18, the
ambassador added.

''Do you believe Honduras has to employ children when the
unemployment rate is 35 percent,'' asked Norman Garcia, president
of the Foundation for Investment and Development of Exports in
Honduras, who joined Flores at the press conference.

For Charles Kernaghan, director of the National Labor Committee
for Human Rights in Central America -- the New York-based
organisation that brought Diaz to the United States -- the answer
is a resounding ''yes.''

Kernaghan, whom both Flores and Garcia accused of manipulating
Diaz and others for his own purposes, said manufacturers prefer
young workers because they are ''more docile'' and easier to
exploit than adults.

Although it is illegal in Honduras to force children under 17
to work more than six hours a day or 30 hours a week, Kernaghan
said these laws are ''100 percent violated.''

Flores disputed this claim, insisting that the administration
of President Carlos Roberto Reina is ''dedicated' to ensuring all
employers are ''in full compliance with our laws.''

''The workers have no hope in President Reina,'' Kernaghan
responded in a telephone interview. While Honduran workers had
''enormous hope'' when Reina took office in 1994, he has since
done little to end labour abuses, according to the activist.

Kernaghan claimed Honduras will only take whatever actions are
necessary to ensure continued U.S. tariff preferences for its
textile exports. He buttressed his argument by quoting a letter
Flores wrote to members of the U.S. Congress in which he expressed
concern about the ''implications (of the ongoing controversy) for
trade and investment'' in Honduras.

Flores, however, said his government is motivated solely by its
interest in protecting jobs. He warned that ''many, if not most''
of the 65,000 workers employed in the (Honduran textile)
industry'' could lose their jobs if the country's reputation
remains clouded.

Pharis Harvey of the Washington-based International Labor
Rights Education Fund warned that even if the Reina government
fully enforced Honduras' labour laws, the problem would simply be
exported to another country.

''You have to attack the problem at a higher level,'' Harvey
said, adding that labour standards need to be guaranteed by the
World Trade Organisation (WTO) and international trade agreements.

Flores agreed. ''It is not a problem that only affects one
country,'' he said. He stressed that Honduras is working with
other Central American and Caribbean nations to address the issue
of labour abuse.

Garcia insisted that independent observers for monitoring
labour conditions would be welcomed by Honduran textile
manufacturers. ''If Kathie Lee Gifford wants to come to Honduras,
she is more than welcome.''(ends/ips/pz/jl/06)


Origin: Washington/HONDURAS-LABOUR/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>38/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-177</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B030-157</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108175237 text/html 5263
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:51:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5105
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Child Labr & Unemployment On ILO Ag
Date: 12 Jun 1996 13:17:25 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 
Subject: Child Labr & Unemployment On ILO Agenda


/* Written  4:12 PM  Jun  6, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "LABOUR: Unemployment and Child Expl" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 03-Jun-96 ***

Title: LABOUR: Unemployment and Child Exploitation on ILO Agenda

by Gustavo Capdevila

GENEVA, Jun 3 (IPS) - Unemployment, child exploitation and the
millions of domestic workers beyond the reach of labour
legislation will be the main issues discussed at the International
Labour Conference starting Tuesday in Geneva.

The International Labour Organisation (ILO) said that
unemployment has increased worldwide during the last 20 years,
with high levels in the industrialised nations, and becoming more
widespread in the developing world since 1990.

Underemployment is also a growing problem in many parts of the
developing world.

According to the ILO, the employment related problems are
related to the new process of rapid globalisation currently
characterising the world economy.

This international body, made up of governments, employers and
workers said the wave of unemployment could be in part attributed
to the rapid growth of the workforce and insufficient economic
growth.

However, the organisation said the current crisis did not mean
''the end of work'' as we know it, but said the evidence of a loss
of 250,000 jobs in General Motors from 1978 to 1993, 100,000 in US
Steel from 1980 to 1990, 170,000 in General Electric between 1981
and 1993, and 180,000 in AT&T from 1981 to 1988 indicated the
situation was quite serious.

The ILO said the number of working children aged between five
and 14 years-old was also increasing, with especially marked
acceleration in Africa and Latin America since 1980.

While a large number of children are suffering from
exploitation and working conditions damaging to their intellectual
and physical development, millions of other children are treated
practically as slaves, obliged to work without pay or as bound
workers.

The entity's administrative council proposed the development of
an international convention on child labour to be approved in
1999.

This convention will regulate working activity in order to
overcome the worst abuses suffered by children, especially child
bound labour, slavery, prostitution and any sort of work which
could cause physical damage.

The ILO will also tackle the issue of ''the invisible
workforce,'' generally women working from their own homes and
living in economic and social conditions the organisation would
like to see improved.

The search for a flexible low-cost workforce has stimulated
industries to rely ever more heabily on sub-contracting, with the
consequent extension of several types of work from home.

In the great majority of cases, these out-workers are women,
often with small children. These women are generally obliged to do
this sort of work in order to meet their family responsibilities
and because of the lack of any alternatives.

For most intents and purposes, the outworkers are invisible and
difficult to organise. As a result they are particularly
vulnerable to exploitation and are often beyond the reach of
labour legislation.

Delegates from most of the ILO's 173 member states will attend
the meeting. Each delegation will include four people: two
governmental representatives, one employer and one worker
spokesperson.

The conference will hold a plenary session on Jun. 11 in order
to receive France's President Jacques Chirac, who will be speaking
to the organisation.

During the conference sessions the electoral colleges of
governments, employers and workers will meet to choose the members
of their respective directing bodies for the next five years.
(END/IPS/tra-so/pc/ff/sm/96)


Origin: Montevideo/LABOUR/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>39/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-178</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B030-237</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.10&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108175332 text/html 7309
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:52:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7151
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-soc
From: labornews@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: apc.labor
Subject: Squalid Conditions For Colorado Mig
Date: 12 Jun 1996 13:18:37 -0800 (PST)

From: Institute for Global Communications  labornews@igc.apc.org 
Subject: Squalid Conditions For Colorado Migrant Workers


/* Written  4:04 PM  Jun  8, 1996 by newsdesk in igc:ips.english */
/* ---------- "U.S.-IMMIGRATION: Workers Face Uphi" ---------- */
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 05-Jun-96 ***

Title: U.S.-IMMIGRATION: Workers Face Uphill Struggle at Ski Resorts

by Malcolm Howard

VAIL, COLORADO, Jun 5 (IPS) - Ski resorts in Colorado's Rocky
Mountains just wrapped up a banner year. Record snowfalls produced
record profits, as ski lifts at some mountains ran until the last
weeks of May.

But as the three-billion-dollar-a-year ski industry booms, many
area workers are finding resort life an uphill struggle.

The increasing number of immigrants from Latin America, Eastern
Europe, and West Africa attracted by the economic boom discover
new hardships to replace those they left behind.  Well-paid jobs
are accompanied by an exorbitant cost of living, particularly
housing, and other woes.

Because Colorado ski destinations increasingly cater to the
wealthy, the cost of everything -- from gasoline to housing -- has
skyrocketed.  This hyperinflation is causing conditions that most
American workers find unacceptable, local business owners say.

Many migrant resort workers live in squalid conditions,
cramming as many as 10 people into small trailers and apartments.
The overcrowded and often run-down trailer parks stand in stark
contrast to the million-dollar ''trophy homes'', which sit inside
gated communities and lie vacant most of the year.

''It's a crisis,'' says Antonio Quezada, a Mexican immigrant
who lives with his mother, sister and two nephews in a crowded two-
bedroom trailer near Aspen.  ''There really needs to be more
decent housing for workers.''

Restauranteur Paul Johnson, a Vail councilman, notes that local
restrictions make it difficult for employers to help workers meet
their housing needs.

''Local building codes, designed to keep this place attractive
for tourists, make it nearly impossible for business to add on to
worker housing,'' he explains.

Housing market is so tight that many migrants workers -- who,
by some estimates, account for 30 percent of the 4,000 transient
workers during peak season -- are forced to find housing far from
their jobs.

Petrita Munoz-Salazar, for example, drives more than 100 miles
through two mountain passes to her job as a hotel housekeeping
manager.

'''It is hard because you're out by six and back by eight or
nine,'' Munoz-Salazar complains. ''By the time you get back from
work, you're spending 10 to 12 hours a day away from home.

''You come home, eat, wash dishes, go to bed, then do it
again,'' she continues. ''It is pretty rough.''

At the same time, there are few services available to workers,
from recreation to day care.

''It is killing family life,'' warns Maricarmen Robbins, citing
rising levels of alcohol and drug abuse and domestic violence.

Robbins, a counselor at a Roman Catholic Church here, adds that
immigrants often face racism on the job, at school or by police.

''There is a tremendous amount of depression among the workers
because of the way they are treated,'' Robbins says.  The Latino
community, she claims is ''treated like chewing tobacco; you get
juice out, then -- choo -- spit it out''.

Despite the high cost of living, discrimination and other
drawbacks, immigrants continue to flock to Colorado's ski country
in search of employment.

The trend contradicts the still widely held notion that ski area
workers are ''ski bums'' -- young, middle-class college graduates
willing to work for seasonal lift tickets. While many may be
middle class, the immigrants come here to earn money, not ski.

More often these days, resort workers -- the vast majority of
whom are in the United States legally -- resemble Ivan Rivera, an
earnest, 21-year-old, college graduate from central Mexico who has
never clamped on ski boots.

''In Mexico, you can be an engineer, but you have to work one
week to earn the money you can make here in one hour,'' says
Rivera, a maintenance workers at the deluxe Vail Athletic Club.
''So this is a good opportunity for me.''

In another growing trend, more of today's resort labourers
migrate from as far away as West Africa and Eastern Europe.

At a fast-food restaurant here, a recent immigrant from Poland
busily wipes tables. ''I don't like it too much; it's too cold,''
he says, adding that although he is well-educated, he cannot even
find an unskilled position in his homeland.

While they may be working in the playground of the rich, many
area workers have no work benefits or health insurance.

Quezada, for example, lost his job due to a work-related
accident and now the uninsured landscaper must contend with a pile
of bills. ''It's traumatizing,'' he says.  ''The landlord still
needs the rent, but I can't find a job that doesn't involve
physical labor.''

Most of these workers refuse to give their names because they
worry about retaliation from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalisation Service (INS) officials, who have staged several
crackdowns in recent months.

Business owners, meanwhile, have taken extreme steps to
defends their immigrant workers.  At least one firm, sources say,
uses walkie-talkies to warn workers of arriving INS officers.

The wealth of job opportunities explains why the anti-immigrant
backlash which is so loud elsewhere in the United States is
largely absent here.

''In no way do these immigrants take jobs from locals. We have
a job surplus here,'' says Bob Marconi, who runs the Vail Athletic
Club.

In fact, the influx of immigrants has not kept up with the
increase in job opportunities.  Currently, 10 to 25 percent of the
available jobs go unfilled annually, social service officials in
Eagle County, which includes Vail.(end/ips/mh/pz/96)


Origin: Washington/U.S.-IMMIGRATION/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please 
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .

.
<hr>40/2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-179</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B031-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108175432 text/html 4843
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:53:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4685
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 2601 records<br>

41  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=41"> 175 19960612 Democratization Fight For Nigerian</a>
42  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=42"> 140 19960612 NAFTA Means Job Losses/Wage Cuts In</a>
43  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=43"> 57 19960612 Korea Gov Wants New Focus For ILO</a>
44  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=44"> 287 19960612 JPN Bosses Cut Longterm Workers</a>
45  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=45"> 36 19960612 Advocates For Korean Migrant Worker</a>
46  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=46"> 21 19960615 Congratulations to German colleagues</a>
47  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=47"> 143 19960616 Bonn demo (on the spot report)</a>
48  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=48"> 100 19960616 Bonn demo (Reuter's report)</a>
49  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=49"> 26 19960618 Info. on telework wanted</a>
50  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=50"> 28 19960613 UK:ONE DAY POSTAL STRIKE</a>
51  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=51"> 29 19960613 UK:UNISON WINS ON RETIREMENT</a>
52  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=52"> 97 19960613 UK:EMPLOYMENT STATS</a>
53  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=53"> 81 19960613 NIG: REPRESSION OF TRADE UNIONISTS</a>
54  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=54"> 42 19960613 UK:MINISTER ON JOB SECURITY</a>
55  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=55"> 105 19960613 UK:TUC WARNS ON EURO OPT OUT</a>
56  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=56"> 154 19960613 BOSNIAN MINERS APPEAL</a>
57  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=57"> 233 19960613 ALERT! Put the heat on NIKE</a>
58  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=58"> 33 19960613 Bengali Workers Fight 7-Day Week</a>
59  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=59"> 43 19960613 OFL Strike In Peterborought June 24</a>
60  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=60"> 129 19960614 COSATU Softens On Privatization</a>
61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=61"> 47 19960614 One Day Postal Strike In UK</a>
62  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=62"> 62 19960614 Labr Public Workers In Turkey On Hu</a>
63  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=63"> 51 19960614 Korea Broadcast Unionists Resign In</a>
64  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=64"> 36 19960614 Korean Police Threaten Public Worke</a>
65  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=65"> 39 19960614 Gdansk, Polish Shipyard Workers Pro</a>
66  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=66"> 112 19960614 Moroccan Yeast Workers Need Support</a>
67  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=67"> 38 19960614 Chilean Miners On Hunger Strike</a>
68  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=68"> 45 19960614 Norwegian Oil Workers On Strike</a>
69  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=69"> 598 19960614 Global Organizing & ICEF-MIF</a>
70  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=70"> 172 19960614 ALERT! Help shape clothing summit</a>
71  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=71"> 135 19960615 Sweden: Social Dems Meet the Unempl</a>
72  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=72"> 211 19960615 Labor Party Convention: A Commentar</a>
73  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=73"> 168 19960615 Workers Around the World 6/13/96</a>
74  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=74"> 71 19960616 UK:POSTAL STRIKE</a>
75  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=75"> 54 19960616 UK:ACTION OVER UNIV CUTS</a>
76  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=76"> 135 19960616 ITF ACTION WEEK RELEASE NO 7</a>
77  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=77"> 91 19960618 German Mass Protest Against Austeri</a>
78  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=78"> 173 19960618 Workers Rally Against Kohl</a>
79  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=79"> 77 19960618 German IG Metall Official Resigns</a>
80  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.10&q=so&in=80"> 48 19960618 Korean Broadcasting Boss Forced Out</a>
<hr>41-80/2601    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2601-2640">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-180</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000261-B031-86</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2561-2600 194.10.201.200 19970108175529 text/html 5173
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 18:54:39 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5015
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 2601 records<br>

2561  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2561"> 421 19970103 Indonesian Nedlloyd Workers Call Fo</a>
2562  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2562"> 519 19970103 Three Years of NAFTA</a>
2563  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2563"> 20 19970104 Query re Committees of correspondan</a>
2564  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2564"> 116 19970103 Who Is "Comandante Huerta" of the M</a>
2565  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2565"> 119 19970103 Forest Focus - WAFC Bulletin</a>
2566  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2566"> 115 19970104 Infected with Deadly Disease at Uni</a>
2567  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2567"> 15 19970104 Lonesome Train/Lincoln Contata</a>
2568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2568"> 33 19970104 The Bookmobile Threat (fwd)</a>
2569  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2569"> 38 19970104 (Fwd)</a>
2570  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2570"> 37 19970104 Re: PEOPLE'S CALENDAR</a>
2571  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2571"> 79 19970104 Cable Workers Need Help! (fwd)</a>
2572  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2572"> 42 19970104 Colorado girl murder case and CLASS</a>
2573  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2573"> 43 19970104 Pro-Beijing Unions March In HK</a>
2574  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2574"> 130 19970104 ICFTU Increases Pressure On Burma</a>
2575  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2575"> 163 19970104 ICFTU To Send Delegation To Korea</a>
2576  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2576"> 39 19970104 Croation Rail Workers Continue Stri</a>
2577  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2577"> 57 19970104 Korean KCTU To Launch New Strikes</a>
2578  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2578"> 156 19970104 Thailand Looking For Skilled Worker</a>
2579  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2579"> 159 19970104 Dereg Hitting Canadian Airline Work</a>
2580  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2580"> 70 19970104 Korean TU's Planning Strike Action</a>
2581  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2581"> 79 19970104 JPN Privatizations Threatened At 39</a>
2582  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2582"> 74 19970104 UK's Labr Drops Bus Re-Regulation</a>
2583  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2583"> 64 19970104 Tokyo Gov Refuses To Hire Foreign W</a>
2584  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2584"> 80 19970104 JPN's New "Virtual" Employee Airlin</a>
2585  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2585"> 80 19970104 OECD Labr Committee Attacks Korean</a>
2586  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2586"> 88 19970104 Korean Unionsts Rally Across Countr</a>
2587  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2587"> 74 19970104 UK's Wage Inequality/Highest This C</a>
2588  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2588"> 126 19970104 S.A. Teachers Furious Over No Consu</a>
2589  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2589"> 204 19970104 Chinese Textile Workers Losing Jobs</a>
2590  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2590"> 162 19970104 TThai Economy Fuels Workers Unrest</a>
2591  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2591"> 44 19970107 Hoofdstedelijk Kraaknieuws januari 1997</a>
2592  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2592"> 85 19970106 ITUSC supports Korean strikers</a>
2593  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2593"> 55 19970104 Re: New Policies (fwd)</a>
2594  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2594"> 62 19970105 Re: New Policies (fwd)</a>
2595  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2595"> 66 19970105 Re: New Policies (fwd)</a>
2596  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2596"> 8 19970106 Re: New Policies (fwd)</a>
2597  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2597"> 85 19970106 ITUSC supports Korean strikers</a>
2598  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2598"> 151 19970105 (Fwd) Yale victory</a>
2599  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2599"> 132 19970105 Academic freedom = silence</a>
2600  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=2561-2600&menu=1.10&q=so&in=2600"> 183 19970105 Washington Post can't defend Peru's</a>
<hr>2561-2600/2601    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2521-2560">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2601-2640">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&q=so&rg=2601-2640">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.10&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-181</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B032-279</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/links.html 194.10.201.200 19970107175523 text/html 5430
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 18:54:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5227
Last-Modified: Sunday, 15-Dec-96 14:02:36 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<html>
<head>
<title>links</title>
</head>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<body>
<center>
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/online.gif">
<h1>LINKS</h1>
<hr>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/akai.gif">
<p>
<a href="http://www.akai.com"><b>Akai</b></a>: the official corporate pages<br>
<A HREF="http://www.cs.ruu.nl/~jules/Akai/"><b>Akai Samplers</b></A>: tremendous page for all Akai-samplers with lots of downloadable software
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/cybersnd.gif">
<p>
<a href="http://www.cybersound.com"><b>Cybersound</b></a>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/emagic.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.midifarm.com/midifarm/emagic.htm"><b>Emagic</b></A>: the official corporate pages<br>
<A HREF="http://www.mcc.ac.uk/~emagic/emagic_page.html"><b>Logic-Users Web Page</b></A>
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/e-mu.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.emu.com/"><b>E-MU Systems</b></a>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/fender.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.fender.com/"><b>Fender</b></A>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/gibson.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.gibson.com/"><b>Gibson</b></A>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/keyboard.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.hyperreal.com/music/machines/Analogue-Heaven/"><b>Analogue Heaven</b></A> info & pics on analog synths<br>
<A HREF="http://www.hyperreal.com/music/machines/"><b>Music Machines</b></A> info & pics on all types of synths<br>
<a href="http://www.harmony-central.com/"><b>Harmony Central</b></a> lots of info on various brands & synths, with pages introducing new releases
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/korg.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.city.ac.uk/~cb170/ws_subs.html"><b>Wavestation</b></A>: list with user-developed patches
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/kurzweil.gif">
<p>
<a href="http://www.beat.com/~misery/k2000"><b>K2000 tips & samples</b></a>
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/midifile.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.digiface.nl/midiweb/index.html"><b>MidiWeb</b></A><br>
<A HREF="http://www.goad.com/keithrg/midi.htm"><b>MIDI links</b></A><br>
<A HREF="http://www.aitech.ac.jp/~ckelly/SMF.html"><b>Standard MIDI Files on the Net</b></A><br>
<a href="http://www.cs.ruu.nl/pub/MIDI"><b>MIDI archive</b></a><br>
<a href="http://www.flexfx.com"><b>FlexFX</b></a> site with huge list of midi-sites<br>
<a href="http://www.eden.com/~progmon"><b>Eden</b></a> midi-files & patches for various synths<br>
<a href="ftp://ftp.ecn.nl"><b>midi-software via FTP at ecn in the Netherlands</b></a><br>
<a href="ftp://ftp.ibp.fr"><b>midi-files & software via FTP at IBP in France</b></a><br>
<a href="http://www.snafu.de/~rubo/songlab/musichops.html"><b>midi-files & samples</b></a>


<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/oberheim.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.gibson.com/products/oberheim/oberheim.html"><b>Oberheim</b></A>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/opcode.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.opcode.com/"><b>Opcode</b></A>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/rocktron.gif">
<p>
<a href="http://www.rocktron.com"><b>Rocktron</b></a>: the official corporate pages
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/roland.gif">
<p>
<a href="http://www.rolandcorp.com"><b>Roland Corporation</b></a> the official corporate pages<br>
<a href="http://www.rolandus.com"><b>Roland US</b></a> the official corporate pages for the USA<br>
<A HREF="http://www.midifarm.com/midifarm/roland.htm"><b>Roland at Midifarm.com</b></a><br>
<A HREF="http://www.intergate.com/~greene/roland.html"><b>Roland 3</b></A><br>
<A HREF="http://www.rain.org/~nigelsp/roland.htm"><b>Roland 4</b></A>
<p>


<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/steinber.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.steinberg-us.com/index.html"><b>Steinberg North America</b></A>: the official corporate pages for the USA<br>
<A HREF="http://www.midifarm.com/steinberg/"><b>Steinberg at Midifarm.com</b></A>: mirror site of the above
<p>

<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/yamaha.gif">
<p>
<A HREF="http://www.yamaha-network.com/index.html"><b>Welcome To Yamaha</b></a>: the official corporate pages<br>
<A HREF="http://www.neuroinformatik.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/ini/PEOPLE/heja/sy-computing.html"><b>SY & TG-Series</b></A><br>
<A HREF="ftp://wozzeck.tfo.arizona.edu/pub/patch_editing/patches/TG77/"><b>TG77-patches</b></A><br>
<A HREF="http://www.ids.net/~marshall/xg.htm"><b>Yamaha XG-series</b></A>

<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=middle src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a>
</body></html>






















</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-182</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B032-411</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107162038 text/html 1393
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 17:19:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1237
</DOCHDR>
peace news
<TITLE> peace news </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.12>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40 checked> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. A space is OR. 
	If no connectors are used, full matches are marked with '*'
	and displayed first. You can also use AND and NOT to in/exclude 
	words.  Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)
	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.12>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-183</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B040-290</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107184207 text/html 4715
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:41:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4559
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 701 records<br>

1  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=1"> 307 19960530 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51</a>
2  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=2"> 275 19960618 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52</a>
3  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=3"> 23 19960620 Report on Swedish arms trade</a>
4  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=4"> 48 19960621 Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar</a>
5  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=5"> 24 19960623 Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List</a>
6  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=6"> 327 19960624 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo</a>
7  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=7"> 37 19960628 Indonesian Airshow</a>
8  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=8"> 262 19960628 Arms acquisitions in Indonesia</a>
9  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=9"> 30 19960629 Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar</a>
10  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=10"> 271 19960628 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 53</a>
11  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=11"> 29 19960530 VOTE FOR PEACE</a>
12  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=12"> 111 19960531 Internationaal Gerechtshof onder druk.</a>
13  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=13"> 100 19960531 Acties in de USA</a>
14  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=14"> 180 19960531 Protestbrief tegen Nucleaire testen</a>
15  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=15"> 49 19960606 FReeDoM, WHaT DoeS iT MeaN To U ?????????????</a>
16  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=16"> 75 19960613 Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.</a>
17  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=17"> 83 19960614 NIEUWE INFO:Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.</a>
18  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=18"> 37 19960623 Innerlijke vrede</a>
19  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=19"> 29 19960628 Vredes-ideeen gevraagd</a>
20  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=20"> 46 19960628 Re: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd</a>
21  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=21"> 64 19960629 8 juli uitspraak inzake Kernwapens door Internationaal Gerechtshof</a>
22  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=22"> 156 19960629 !!!Uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof inzake Kernwapens!!!  </a>
23  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=23"> 74 19960630 Vertaling persbericht Internationaal Gerechtshof d.d. 28 juni</a>
24  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=24"> 259 19960703 new CTBT text</a>
25  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=25"> 44 19960529 Help needed on orimulsion</a>
26  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=26"> 68 19960529 No Subject Given</a>
27  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=27"> 392 19960530 Auschwitz (fwd)</a>
28  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=28"> 29 19960530 Elections in Israel. The day after</a>
29  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=29"> 58 19960530 5/28 News Alert: CTBT Talks</a>
30  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=30"> 23 19960603 Re: Elections in Israel. The day after</a>
31  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=31"> 50 19960605 Auschwitz</a>
32  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=32"> 69 19960610 CND respond to china test</a>
33  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=33"> 21 19960612 Social program Worchester</a>
34  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=34"> 118 19960614 Trident costs attacked by 'think tank'</a>
35  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=35"> 72 19960614 CND DEMONSTRATION - 'Give Trident the Boot'</a>
36  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=36"> 758 19960614 Re: News From Oz by John Hallam</a>
37  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=37"> 762 19960614 Re: News From Oz by John Hallam</a>
38  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=38"> 28 19960615 new address</a>
39  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=39"> 19 19960616 Re: new address</a>
40  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=40"> 44 19960625 Re: Auschwitz (fwd)</a>
<hr>1-40/701    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=681-720">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-184</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B010-168</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108183626 text/html 16598
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:35:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16439
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51
Date: 30 May 1996 10:19:34

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 51
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			May 30, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Global Security Concerns: Anticipating the Twenty-First Century, edited by
Dr. Karl P. Magyar and Lt. Col. Bradley S. David, Air University Press,
Maxwell Air Force Base, March 1996. See Chap. 13, "Conventional Armaments:
Mapping Warfare in the Twenty-First Century" by Mark Browne, pp. 239-258.

  Military Technology, Vol. 20 #4, 4/96, "Quo Vadis, Asian Defence?:
Conventional Arms Proliferation in East/Southeast Asia," pp. 10-12, 14-15.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, April 24, 1996, "GGC [Gulf Cooperation Council] Air
Forces," starts p. 18

  Aerospace Daily, April 30, 1996, "Indonesia's Suharto said to okay F-16
buy," p. 181.
  
  Jane's Intelligence Review, May 1996, "Burma develops its ability to build
arms," pp. 233-235.

  The Atlantic Monthly, May 1996, "Blowback," [The CIA poured billions into
a jihad against Soviet-occupied Afghanistan, creating a militant Islamist
Abraham Lincoln Brigade believed to have been involved in bombings from
Islamabad to New York. Is Bosnia next?],  p. 24, 26-28, and 36.

  The DISAM Journal, of International Security Assistance Management, Vol.
18, No. 3, Spring 1996, "Fiscal Year 1996 Security Assistance Legislation,"
, pp. 19-58.

  Boston Globe, May 9, 1996, "US sees conflict of interest over arms:
Commerce study looks at `offsets'," p. 1.

  The New Yorker, May 13, 1996, "What's the real Iran-Bosnia scandal?," p. 7.

  Defense News, May 13-19, 1996, "Finland Will Barter Missiles for Debt:
Delivery of Air Defense Weapons Would Reduce Russian Obligation," p. 30;
"Mirage Buy to Delay Pakistani Budget Cuts," p. 32.

  Civilian Pawns: Laws of War Violations and the Use of Weapons on the
Israel-Lebanon Border, Human Rights Watch Arms Project and Human Rights
Watch/Middle East, Released May 22, 1996, 142pp.

  Offsets In Defense Trade: A Study Conducted under Section 309 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, As Amended, Prepared By U.S. Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Export Administration, Office of Strategic Industries
and Economic Security, May 21, 1996, (73pp., not counting 4 appendices)

  Washington Post, May 22, 1996, "Specter Says Top Officials Hid Arms
Policy," p. A25.

  Washington Post, May 23, 1996, "U.S. Arrests Suspects With Ties to Chinese
Arms Firms in Gun Smuggling Sting," p. A16.

  New York Times, May 23, 1996, "Chinese Sought In Plot To Import Arms to
the U.S.," p. 1.

  Washington Post, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Executives Indicted in
Smuggling," p. A20.

  Washington Times, May 24, 1996, "Customs agents crack arms-smuggling ring
tied to Chinese VIPs," p. A3; and  "Talbott rebuts Woolsey on Iran-Bosnia
briefing: Tells Hill panel of arms-policy change," p. A11.

  New York Times, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Seized in Undercover Inquiry:
Raids Raise Questions on Officials' Knowledge, and Trade Status," p. A12.

  Washington Post, May 25, 1996, "China Is Asked to Aid Illicit Arms Probe,"
p. A6; and "Sowing Mayhem," [re landmines] [What's on Earth feature], A17.

  Defense News, May 20-26, 1996, " Industry Experts Doubt Russia's Plan To
Become Global Arms Export Force," pp. 42; and "U.K. Makes Final Effort To
Sell Subs to Canada," p. 44.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, May 27, 1996, "U.S. Export Push
Challenges Europeans," pp. 20-22; "$28-Billion Market Targeted by U.S.," p.
20; [for further details about the Clinton Administration's "Showcase Europe
aerospace marketing strategy and its "major projects list" in Western and
Central Europe call Will Fenter at the US Embassy in Paris. Phone # 33 1 43
12 23 18]; and "Sukhoi Upgrades Geared to South Asian Market," p. 57.
  New York Times, May 29, 1996, "Gun-Running in the Balkans: CIA and
Diplomats Collide," p. 1; and "Beijing Vows To Punish Unauthorized Arms
Exports," p. 5

  Wall Street Journal, May 29, 1996, "Ambassador Is In for Grilling Over
Arms Flow: Galbraith Scheduled to Give First Open Testimony On Shipments to
Bosnia," p. A9.

  Defense News, May 27-June 2, 1996, "U.S. Air Force To Certify AEW Hercules
for Export," pp. 4, 36; and "Albania Will Buy 5 U.S. Patrol Boats: Deal
Marks First U.S. Shipment of Equipment to Former East Bloc," p. 16

  Jane's Defence Weekly (Back Issues)
- 20 March 1996, "Brazil to give priority to SIVAM over F-5 upgrade," p. 6;
"Russia talks sales with eight nations," p. 8; "B-2 flypast marks US
presence at Chile airshow," p. 8; "Lockheed Martin confident that USA will
lift [combat] aircraft sale ban [to Latin America]," p. 8; "Hellfire deal
for Norway," p. 12; "First two La Fayettes ready to sail for Taiwan," p. 14;
and "Angola urged to reduce mines," p. 15.
- 27 March 1996, "Dutch join pact against anti-personnel mines," p. 12; and
"Russia in billion dollar arms sales to Iran
- 17 April, 1996, "UAE Navy to take over ex-Dutch Kortenaers," p. 5, "USA
restores grant aid training to Indonesia," p. 27; 
- 24 April, 1996, "UK radar will equip Chinese AEW aircraft," p. 3; "US
exporters face greater offset demands," p. 5; "China is poised to buy third
batch of Su-27s," p. 10
- 1 May 1996, "Cypriot arms build-up continues with T-80 buy," p. 3;
"Boutros-Ghali attacks vicious circle of global arms sales," p. 5; "USA and
Mexico work out UH-1H transfer," p. 8; and "France seeks shake-up of export
policy," p. 25.
- 8 May 1996, "MLU [Mid-Life Update]: Giving a new lease of life to F-16s,"
pp. 26-27;
- 15 May 1996, "Boutros-Ghali criticizes failure to ban landmines," p. 4;
and "USA urged to lift FMS ban [to Latin America], p. 5.
- 22 May 1996, "Global military spending is lowest for 20 years," p. 3; "USA
takes first step in banning anti-personnel mines," [Turkish] F-4E upgrade
accord `close'," p. 12; "Singapore to limit mine exports," p. 14; "S Africa
sales hit $198m," p. 17

 	Land Mines
  Soldiers, May 1996, "Demining Honduras," p. 21.
  Los Angeles Times (Wash. Ed.), May 8, 1996, "Long, Slow War on Land Mines:
Gain at Geneva meeting is just a fraction of what is needed," p. 10.
  Dallas Morning News, May 8, 1996, "Demonstrators rally for land mine ban,"
May 8, 1996, p. 10.
  Washington Post, May 16, 1996, "Clinton Won't Change Land Mine Policy:
President Seeks to Avoid Political Risk in Election Year, Critics Say," p. A11.
  Army Times, May 20, 1996, "Ban the production of land mines," p. 54.
  Washington Post, May 17, 1996, "Clinton Rejects a Ban on Use of Land
Mines," p. A24
  Aerospace Daily, May 17, 1996, "U.S. retains some anti-personnel mines for
Korea scenario," p. 284.
  Wall Street Journal, May 17, 1996, "Killing Fields: Land Mines Prove to Be
Even harder to Detect Than They Are to Ban: Technological Shortcomings In
Equipment Have Some Blasting Army Funding," Starts on p. A1.
  Washington Post, May 20, 1996, "The Agony of Mines," (Editorial), p. A20.
  Washington Post, May 21, 1996, "Land Mine Fizzle," (column by Mary
McGrory), May 21, 1996, p. A2.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database:
-- From back issues of Arms Control Today
- "Clinton's Conventional Arms Export Policy: So Little Change," May 1995,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.conarmex.txt
- "Clinton, Bhutto Seek Resolution to `Pressler' Ban on F-16 Deliveries,"
May 1995, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.pressler.txt
- "Clinton Waives Ban on Arms Sales to israel Boycott Supporters," May 1995,
At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.mideast/.israel/.waiveban.txt
- "Congressmen Seek Clinton Support For Stronger Landmine Prohibitions," May
1995, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnccw.txt
- "UN Conventional Arms Register Participation Declines Slightly," December
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.rgprtdec.txt
- "Pakistan Looks to Russia, France for Advanced Aircraft and Subs,"
December 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.paklkrus.txt
- "Conventional Arms Control Initiatives: Russia as a Special Case, December
1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.conarmru.txt
- "House Imposes New Limits On U.S. Military Aid Programs," August 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.u.s/.secassit/.newlimit.txt
- "Turkey, Faced With Budget Problems Looks to Moscow for Arms," June 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.turkey/.turk-mos.txt
- "Global Arms Sales Show Decline, But Upswing Could Come Soon," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armsaldn.txt
- "New Law Would Force Disclosure of `Offset' Arms Sales," May 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.offsets/.lawdiscl.txt
- "U.S. Bids to `Cap' Indian-Pakistani Program Faces Opposition," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.capinpak.txt
- "Clinton, at U.N., Proposes New Landmine Initiative," November 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnpro.txt
- "Pentagon Renews Direct Support for U.S. Arms Makers at Air Show," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.tradesho/.nwsupair.txt
- "Congress to Consider `Code of Conduct' for U.S. Arms Transfers," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.codeofco/.code.txt
- "Congress Blocks Conversion Funds As Loan Guarantees For Arms Sales,"
December 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.congblok.txt
- "Book, Banker Re-kindle Charges Of U.S. Arms Sales to Iraq," December
1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.pergulf/.iraq/.iraqsale.txt
- "Fate of U.S. Loan Guarantees for Arms Sales Abroad Still Uncertain,"
October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.fateuncr.txt
- "Factfile: U.S. Conventional Arms Transfers,"October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armtrans.txt
- "United States Maintains Ranking As World's Top Arms Exporter," September
1993, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.ustopaex.txt
- "Clinton Hears Congressional Views on Restraining Global Arms Trade,"
September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.congview.txt
- "Factfile: UN Register of Conventional Arms," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.register.txt
- "Arming Ethnic Conflict," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.small/.ethnic.txt
- "Yugoslave Crisis Renews Debate On Ending Bosnian Arms Embargo," May 1993,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.yugoslav/.bosembar.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: The Debate on the Future Issues,"
October 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.undebate.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: A New Instrument for Cooperative
Security," April 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.coopsec.txt
- "Russia's `New Look' Arms Sales Strategy, October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.rusnewlk.txt
Landmines
- DoD May 16, 1996 Background Briefing on Landmine Policy At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.dodbrief.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet: U.S. Demining Program At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House News Briefing on "New" Landmine Policy (including
statements by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense
William Perry, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright,
and Q&A Session), At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the President, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-05-.tex
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen.
Shalikashvili, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.jcstatem
- May 16, 1996 Statement of Sen. Patrick Leahy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.lm960516.htm
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet "U.S. Announces Landmine Policy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet, "U.S. Efforts to Address the Problem
of Antipersonnel Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- Star Wars Puts On Civvies to Hunt Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lmclrg

	New Links to other Web Sites
The [UK] Landmine Control Programme: A Humanitarian Initiative;
 The Humanitarian Foundation of People Against Landmines; 
Mine Facts; 
Norwegian's People's Aid - International Demining Activities; 
Landmines: Hidden Killers (From UNICEF's State of the World Children 1996
report); [U.S.A.] Landmine Use Moratorium Act of 1995; 
Landmines (From One World Online); 
Landmine Related Web Sites; 
Oxfam Home Page; 
Terrestrial Remote Sensing Projects; 
Dumb Landmines Versus Smart Landmines; 
Mine Warfare Association; 
Landmines Home Page (Slow Access)
DeTec - Demining Technology Center
[Australian] Assistance to Defence Exporters

  NEW!!  Recommended!! One of the more useful products available at the
recent CCW Landmine Review conference in Geneva was a multimedia CD-ROM
entitled "Random Ambush", published by the International Committee of the
Red Cross. Use is made of photos, voice recordings, video clips and
high-quality graphics to present a wide range of information on
antipersonnel mines and issues: the different types of mines; their
production, selling,  and export; injuries caused by mines, treatment and
rehabilitation of their victims, social and economic costs arising from
their use, techniques of mine clearance, gaps in international law governing
the use of antipersonnel mines, and the worldwide campaign to ban them.
	The program can be run on both Windows and Macintosh computers. The price
is 25 Swiss francs / $20.00
	Copies may be ordered from the International Committee of the Red Cross,
Division of Public Information, 19, av. De la Paix, CH 1202, Geneva
Switzerland or by E-mail at com_dip.gva@gwn.icrc.org

  New Books
- Arms Trade and the Future of the Russian Defense Industry, by V. Khrutsky
and T. Latypov; 1995, 124pp.; and The European Arms Trade, edited by Martin
Navias and Susan Willett, 155pp, 1996, both by Nova Science Publishers.

  Newsflash!
	- "U.S. President Bill Clinton's Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
(TPCC) will soon recommend that the United States launch multilateral
negotiations to eliminate, or reduce, the use of offsets in international
arms trade...The interagency TPCC is expected to include the recommendation
in its July-planned annual report."
--Defense News, May 27-June 3, 1996, p. 2

	- The National Security Archive has opened their web site. It has various
arms trade collections, including those donated by Michael Klare and Cindy
Aronson. To see what they have set your browser to
<a href=http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive>http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive</a>

.
<hr>1/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-185</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B010-241</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108183726 text/html 14734
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:36:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14575
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52
Date: 18 Jun 1996 07:45:55

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 52
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 17, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>
 

  Sidel, Victor  "Towards a Better World: The international arms trade and
its impact on health," British Medical Journal, December 23-20, 1995, V.
311, pp 1677-80,

  International Military Education and Training: An Assessment, October
1995, John A. Cope, McNair Paper 44, Institute for National Strategic
Studies, National Defense University, Washington, D.C., 70pp. (See online
table of contents at <a href=http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html>http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html</a>

  Military Technology, 5/96, "Winds of Change At Fidae ['96 Air Show], pp.
86-87.

  Recycled Weapons: American Exports of Surplus Arms, 1990-1995, A Study by
the Arms Sales Monitoring Project of the Federation of American Scientists
by Paul F. Pineo and Lora Lumpe, May 1996, 36pp. (NOTE: This is also
available online at <a href=http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm>http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm</a>

  Inside the Pentagon, May 16, 1996, "New Arms Transfer Teams To Help Army
Streamline Weapons Sales," p. 1

  Los Angeles Times, May 24, 1996, "U.S. Agents Say Chinese Tanks, Rockets
Offered," p. 1.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "AWACS-type C-130 set to get export
go-ahead," ;"$161m reconnaissance upgrade for Dutch F-16s," p. 8; "Ethiopian
Navy for sale to highest bidder," p. 15; 

  The Free China Journal, May 31, 1996, "US to sell missiles to Taiwan to
bolster defense," p. 1.

  Defense Daily, May 31, 1996, "Egyptians Sign Contract To Buy 21 F-16
Fighters," p. 358.

  Asia-Pacific Defence Reporter, May-June 1996, "The new Sino-Russian
partnership: SU-27s the icing on the cake," pp. 12, 13.

  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Will France Stay Number
One? Being the World's Foremost Arms Seller Is Not A Coveted Honor," p. 12.

  Jane's Intelligence Review, June 1996, "Russian arms makers seek business
abroad," pp. 246-247.

  Jane's Intelligence Review & Jane's Sentinel Pointer, June 1996,
"Death-blow to the [South African] arms industry [re second Cameron
Commission report], p. 12.

  Army, June 1996, "Security Assistance -- A Force Multiplier," pp. 42-46;
and "Security Assistance Programs: Promoting Democracy in the Post-Cold War
Era," pp. 25, 26, 28, 30.

  Washington Post, June 2, 1996, "Hill Panels May Enter Controversy Over CIA
Action on Croatia Envoy: State Dept. Officials Angered by Reports Covering
Bosnian Arms Policy," p. 12.

  Newsweek, June 3, 1996, "A Call to Open Arms: Congress is investigating
why U.S. Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbraith ignored the U.N. embargo and
a and allowed weapons into Bosnia," p. 58.

  Washington Post, June 5, 1996, "U.S. to Sell Jets to Indonesia, Transfer
Proceeds to Pakistan," p. A27.

  Los Angeles Times, June 5, 1996 (Wash. Ed.), "U.S. Shares Weaponry With
World, Report Says," p. 2.

  London Financial Times, June 5, 1996, "BaE wins Kuwaiti missile contract,"
p. 8.

  Washington Post, June 6, 1996, "U.S. Operation in Turkey Seeks To Train,
Unite Croats and Muslims," p. A21.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 6, 1996, "Guns and Money: Illicit arms
trade puts China on the defensive," p. 16.

  Defense Daily, June 7, 1996, "U.S. To Transfer Tanks, Helicopters To
Bosnia," p. 401.

  The following references are taken from the 6/8 listing off BASIC's
Project on the Arms Trade: Rewriting Canada's Military Export Control
Policies and Procedures, Ernie Regehr, Ploughshares Briefing [#96/2},
Project Ploughshares, Conrad Grebel College, Canada; and "The Arms Trade,
Military Assistance, and Recent Wars: Change and Continuity," Stephanie G.
Neumann, The Annals, American Academy of Political and Social Science,
September 1995.

  Defense News, June 3-9, 1996, "U.S. Offset Initiative Leaves Allies Cold,"
pp. 1, 33; "Israel's Request for 16 AMRAAMS May Change Air Warfare in
Mideast," pp. 3, 32; "Thai Hornet Buy Breaks Pattern: Marks First F/A-18
Sale to Country Operating Rival F-16 Aircraft," p. 4.

  Washington Post, June 11, 1996, "Woolsey, in Testimony, Criticizes White
House: Bosnia-Iran Stance Called Unwise, Not Illegal," p. 20.

  Congressional Record, June 11, 1996, Debate over the Foreign Operations
appropriations bill.  See sections on amendments by Rep. Obey to prohibit
IMET funding for Cambodia and Thailand, pp. H6145-6148; and Rep. Frank to
prohibit IMET funding for Indonesia, pp. H6150-6156.

  Defense News, June 10-16, 1996, "Canadian Fighter Sale Fuels Fear of
African Arms Race." p. 6; "Mideast Nations Near Arms Saturation Point:
Shopping Spree of Early 1990s Puts Strain on Logistics, Training," pp. 8,
20; "Kuwaiti Shifts Focus From Politics to Weapon Quality," p. 8; "Egypt
Woos Gulf States for Industrial Operation," p. 10; "Cash-Strapped Oman
Weights Upgrade to Air, Armor Forces," p. 12; "Egypt Grants Higher Status To
Enhancing Naval Power," p. 12; "Bahrain Puts Air Defense at Top of Upgrade
List," p. 16; and "Jordan To Benefit From U.S. Presence," p. 20.

  Defense News, June 17-23, 1996, "U.S. Readies Long-Awaited Export Loan
Program," pp. 4, 26; and "Sweden May Boost Exports: Eased Rules Would
Broaden Gripen Market Reach," p. 8; and "Pakistan-Ukraine Tank Deal Would
Open Supply Source," p. 8.

Landmines
  Military Technology, Vol. 20, No. 5, 5/96 "Of Mines and Clowns," p. 5.
  Disarmament Diplomacy, May 1996, "Diplomacy After the Negotiation:
Protocol II and the Anti-Personnel Landmine Ban," pp. 9-14.
  Syracuse Herald-Journal, May 11, 1996, "Take stand against killing kids,"
[editorial], p. 5.
  Boston Globe, May 17, 1996, "Ridding the world of land mines," [op-ed], p. 17.
  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, May 20, 1996, "Let U.S. push land-mine ban,"
[editorial] p. 10.
  The Sacramento Bee, May 20, 1996, "Land-Mine Compromise," [editorial] p. B6.
  Navy Times, May 27, 1996, "Clinton reverses his stance; U.S. to keep its
land mines," p. 10.
  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "Mines in Bosnia: a lethal legacy," 
  Defense Daily, "Army Looks To South Africa For Bosnia Countermine Effort,"
p. 341.
  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Hunting Hidden Killers:
Most Promising Mine-Detecting Technologies Now On Fast Track," pp. 18-19.
  Soldiers, June 1996, "Countering Mines: A Coordinated Army effort is
helping reduce the danger of mines in Bosnia," pp. 22-25.
  Air Force Times, June 3, 1996, "Most land mines will stay: Critics say
Clinton's policy is `nothing new' p. 30; and "How useful they remain is
debated," p. 30.
  Army Times, June 3, 1996 , "Clinton: Anti-personnel land mines to stay,"
p. 38; and "The pros and cons of land mines leave the Army divided," p. 38.
  Dallas Morning News, June 3, 1996, "Why won't Clinton ban land mines?," p. 9.
  Minneapolis Star Tribune, June 3, 1996, "Land mines: Missing a chance to
outlaw agony," p. 10.
  Providence Journal-Bulletin, June 3, 1996, "Watch your step, world!," p. B4.
  International Herald Tribune, June 4, 1996, "Revised Agreement Is No
Victory in War Against Land Mines," p. 8.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
	The papers and discussions from CDI's Capitol Hill "Conventional Arms
Transfer Restraint in the 1990s" conference, held November 16, 1994, are now
online. Set your broswer to
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/1/.atdb/.other/.cdiresou/.catr  
	The contents include, but are not limited to:
- Keynote Address by Amb. Ralph Earle, Deputy Director of ACDA
- What the U.S. Gains by Arms Transfer by Joel Johnson of AIA
- What the U.S. Loses by Arms Transfers, by William Hartung of the World
Policy Institute
- Do U.S. Arms Transfers Enhance Economic and Military Security?, by Dr.
Greg Bischak
- Producers vs. Buyers: Who Controls the Trade, by Andrew Pierre of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
- The Code of Conduct and Human Rights Issues, by Ms. Julie McGregor of Sen.
Hatfield's office
- Overview of the Conventional Arms Trade, by Dr. Larry Korb of the
Brookings Institute
- Finding Effective Arms Transfer Restraint Measures, by Dr. Natalie Goldring
- The Role of the UN and Regional Organizations in Restraining Conventional
Arms Transfers, by Dr. Frederick Pearson, Wayne State University
- Identifying Key Elements of a New U.S. Conventional Arms Transfer Policy,
Prof. Aaron Karp, Old Dominion University

	A tip of the hat goes to our taxpayer funded U.S. Defense Security
Assistance Agency. Although we wish they were not doing what they do, i.e.,
implementing arms sales, they have been kind enough to provide us the
computer files from their Foreign Military Sales database. We have finally
been able to decode and reformat the data and have posted it online.  The
following tables are based on the data as it appears in DSAA's "Foreign
Military Sales, Foreign Military Construction Sales, and Military Assistance
Facts" annual publication. We will be posting more tables online, based on
that work, in the future. And, further down the road we will be posting
tables that are formatted in accordance with DSAA's Fiscal Year Series.

- Foreign Military Construction Sales Agreements. 
 At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.2.txt
- Foreign Military Sales Deliveries.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.3.txt
- Foreign Military Construction Sales Deliveries.
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.4.txt
- Commercial Exports Licensed Under Arms Export Control Act 
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.6.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Merger Funds.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.7.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Program--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.10.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Delivered--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.11.txt

CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents
-Amended Protocol II, CCW Conference, May 1, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.amenprot.txt
- Article 11, Technical Cooperation & Assistance, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.art-11.txt
- Article 13, Paragraph 4, Proposal Submitted by Germany, April 22, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propgerm.txt
- Biographies of Selected members of the International Campaign to Ban
Landmines, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.bios.txt
- Campaign Highlights, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.highlite.txt
- China: Moratorium on the Export of AP Mines, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.china.txt
- Closing Statement by the President of the 1st Review Conference on CCW, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.molander.txt
- Compliance Annex, Proposal Submitted by the United States, CCW, 4/23/96,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propus.txt
- Draft Final Report of the Review Conference, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.drfinrep.txt
- FCO [UK] Spokesman: Minister Welcomes Adoption of New Agreement, May 3,
1996,  At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.fcospoke.txt
- List of Participants at the CCW Review Conference, 
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.particip.txt
- Main Committee I: Draft Final Declaration, CCW, May 1, 1996
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.declarat.txt
- Pentagon Memo Attacks Ban on Blinding Lasers, Human Rights Watch Arms
Project, April 21, 1996, 
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.laserban.txt
- Press Advisory: Production Could Resume in Italy, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.prodital.txt
- Press Advisory: UK's Policy Announces Procurement of New Mines, April 24,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.ukgroup.txt

- New Links: 
- Land Mine Awareness Education, At <a href=http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/>http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/</a>
- Northrop Grumman. At <a href=http://www.northgrum.com>http://www.northgrum.com</a>

QUOTE of the DAY!!
"On November 28, 1995, BXA [Commerce Department's Bureau of Export
Administration] published a final rule that expanded foreign policy controls
on specially designed implements of torture. Previously, such implements
were controlled as "crime control and detection" commodities in the same
category of as handcuffs, police helmets and shields. As such, they did not
require a validated license for export to member countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, or New Zealand. This
new rule created a control list entry requiring a validated license for
export of specially designed implements of torture to all destinations,
including Canada. Applications for such exports will continue to be subject
to a general policy of denial."
--Congressional Record, June 4, 1996, p. S5759

.
<hr>2/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-186</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B010-307</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108183821 text/html 1148
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:37:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 991
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: jpetersson@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Report on Swedish arms trade
Date: 20 Jun 1996 14:23:25 +0100 (SVT)

GOVERNMENTAL REPORT ON SWEDISH ARMS TRADE

Every year the Swedish government report it´s armstrade to the 
parliament. A week ago such a report was given.

This report will also in short be translated to english.

If you are intrerested in Swedish arms trade I can send you the english 
version of the report by mail when it´s done.

Send me your adress, preferably to this adress:
svenska.freds@educate.se

Yours sincerely,
Jens Petersson
Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society
.
<hr>3/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-187</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-33</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108183908 text/html 2642
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:38:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2484
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 21 Jun 1996 12:47:56

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Arms Trade Database


								June 21, 1996

Dear Arms Trade Citation List Recipients:

	As you know CDI established and continues to develop an Arms Trade Database
(ATDB) devoted to numerous aspects of the conventional arms trade, such as
data from CRS, ACDA, the UN, and DSAA, info on landmine proliferation, small
arms, developments in industry, and much more.

	Each new list I send out includes references to new material loaded into
the ATDB. I know that some of you, going on the basis of past
conversations--have found this to be quite useful.

	As you may be aware keeping the ATDB going and up to date is both a
time-consuming and expensive endeavor. Much information must be scanned in
which requires the services of a temp worker who struggles to scan in the
huge piles of relevant material. It also requires a significant portion of
my time, as well as that of some of the interns. 

	Mind you, this is not a complaint; just the facts, as Jack Webb, put it.
However, our initial funding for the ATDB is drawing to a close and to keep
it going will require new funding. You can help.

	I am NOT asking for money. I know that you have limited funds and equally
important priorities. But, I would ask for just a couple of minutes of your
time. If you have found the ATDB useful to you please let us know. Your
comments and testimonials will be of great value to us as we go to
foundations and seek new funding. Please take just a few minutes to send us
an e-mail detailing how the ATDB has been of use to you and how you would
like to see it continue. You don't have to go overboard. A simple message
noting that the ATDB is the best invention since sliced bread or the Swiss
Army knife will do.

	Send your e-mail to me. If you are not sending it as a reply to this letter
my e-mail is "disenber@cdi.org". Thanks in advance for your help in this
matter. I look forward to your comments.

.
<hr>4/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-188</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108183958 text/html 1153
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:39:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 996
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List
Date: 23 Jun 1996 03:19:24

From: "R.T. Naylor, Economics"  NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA 


Dear David

This note is just to let you know how useful, in fact essential, I 
have found the Citation list for my own work. At the present 
time I am compiling information for a book on the international arms 
black market funded by the John D. and Catherine MacArthur 
Foundation, and I  find the citation list an invaluable source.

Tom Naylor

Prof. R.T. Naylor
Department of Economics
McGill University
Montreal, Quebec
.
<hr>5/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-189</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-173</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108184056 text/html 13654
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:40:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13495
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: 24 Jun 1996 14:02:20

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 1996 13:59:00 +0200


European Parliament urges Member States again to halt arms
trade to Indonesia

Recently the European Parliament adopted a new resolution on
Indonesia and East Timor. This resolution is the result of two
resolutions brought forward on Indonesia and one on East
Timor. Watch Indonesia lobbied for a resolution on the release
of the former parliamentarian Dr. Sri-Bintang Pamungkas and
the condemnation of the unfair trials against him, AMOK-
Maritiem for an arms embargo on behalf of the European Network
Against Arms Trade and finally the increased military
repression was reason for a third resolution. Since 1994 the
European parliament adopted already four resolutions on East
Timor (17-11-94, 20-09-95) and East Timor and Indonesia (14-
12-95 and 19-06-96) in which arms trade was mentioned:

17-11-94:   "5.   Urges the member states to halt all military
                  aid and arms sales to Indonesia (...)

Unofficial translation from Portuguese:
20-09-95:   "4.   Calls on the International Community, in
                  particular the member states to halt all
                  military sales of arms and all military
                  assistance to Indonesia (...)

                  (Apela insistentemente  Comunidade
                  International, e nomendamente aos Estados-
                  membros, para gue cessem todas as vendas de
                  armas e toda a assistncia militar  Indonsi
                  (...))

14-12-95:   "6.   Calls again on the governments of the Member
                  States to cease all military assistance and
                  arms sales to Indonesia (...)

20-06-96    "7.   Reiterates its demand to the Member States of
                  the European Union to halt all military
                  assistance and all arms sales to Indonesia;"

Although the European Network Against Arms Trade asked for an
"arms embargo" to Indonesia this was not adopted by the
European Parliament. But in fact the difference between an
arms embargo and the request for a halt on all military
assistance and arms sales is not very big.

Hopefully this above mentioned clause from the following
resolution will be used to strengthen the opposition in the
member states of the EU against arms trade to Indonesia. 

Martin Broek

The following resolution on the situation in East Timor 
and the violation of human rights in Indonesia 
was adopted by the European Parliament in its Plenary Session 
in Strasbourg 20 June 1996
**************************************************************
*

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT

19 June 1996

                                                   
                                                B4-0764/RC1
                                                B4-0776/RC1
                                                B4-0777/RC1
                                                B4-0782/RC1
                                                B4-0784/RC1
                                                B4-0785/RC1
                                                B4-0800/RC1
                                                B4-0806/RC1
                                                B4-0817/RC1
                                                B4-0819/RC1
                                                B4-0825/RC1
                                                B4-0831/RC1


JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION (Rule 47)

by Barros Moura and d4Ancona, on behalf of the PSE Group
   Lucas Pires, Moorhouse and Dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of    
   the PPE Group 
   Vieira, Girao Pereira, Pasty and Baldi, 
   on behalf of the UPE Group Capucho, Pimenta, Cunha and      
   Porto,on behalf of the ELDR Group 
   Ribeiro, Vinci, Gutierrez Dias, Svensson, Elmalan and 
   Mohamad Ali, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group
   Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group
   Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of the ARE Group

to replace the motions for resolutions by:

- D'Ancona and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0764/96)
- de Melo and Cunha, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0776/96)
- Pimenta, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0777/96)
- Marinho and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0782/96)
- Vieira and others, on behalf of the UPE Group (B4-0784/96)
- Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of 
  the ARE Group (B4-0785/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0800/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0806/96)
- Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group             
  (B4-0817/96)
- McKenna, on behalf of the V Group (B4-0819/96)
- Moorhouse, on behalf of the PPE Group (B4-0825/96)
- Lucas Pires and others, on behalf of the PPE                 
  Group(B4-0831/96)

on the Situation in East Timor and the violation of human
rights in Indonesia

DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                        PE 250.944/RC1
                                            PE 250.957/RC1
                                            PE 250.958/RC1
                                            PE 250.963/RC1
                                            PE 250.965/RC1
                                            PE 250.966/RC1
                                            PE 250.981/RC1
                                            PE 250.987/RC1
                                            PE 250.998/RC1
                                            PE 251.000/RC1
                                            PE 251.006/RC1
                                            PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa    
         


                              - page 1 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT,

A. having regard to the illegal occupation of East Timor by 
Indonesia,

B. whereas Indonesian military repression against the
population of East Timor is continuing and has been stepped up
over recent days, particularly against young people,

C. deeply concerned at the incidents which occured in Baucau
between 9 and 11 June in the wake of the profanation of a
Catholic religious image, involving  protests by several
hundred young Timorese which where repressed by the 
Indonesian security forces, with at least two of the young
demonstrators being  killed, large numbers wounded and several
dozen being arrested, 

D. whereas the Indonesian government continues to ignore all
calls from the international community urging it to respect
human rights and the right of self-determination of the people
of East Timor, 

E. having regard to the developments following the approach
made by the Portuguese Prime Minister to the President of
Indonesia during the Euro-Asian  summit in Bangkok, 

F. having regard to the forthcoming meeting between the
Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers to be organized by
the UN Secretary-General, 

G. having regard to the fatal shooting of 25 year old Imanuel
Suares from East Timor on 7 June by the police in Jakarta,

H. whereas hundreds of political prisoners are still being
detained in Indonesia and in East Timor,

I. whereas the tension in Indonesia has been increasing, as
demonstrated by the incidents which have occured in Irian Jaya
(Western Papua), where young people clashed with soldiers, and
by the army4s brutal invasion of the university campus in
Ujung Pandang in order to stop a student demonstration
(protesting against a 150% increase in bus fares) which
resulted in the death of six young people,

J. whereas the Indonesian authorities accused the former
member of parliament Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas of being the
instigator of demonstrations in Germany,


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                    PE 250.944/RC1
                                        PE 250.957/RC1
                                        PE 250.958/RC1
                                        PE 250.963/RC1
                                        PE 250.965/RC1
                                        PE 250.966/RC1
                                        PE 250.981/RC1
                                        PE 250.987/RC1
                                        PE 250.998/RC1
                                        PE 251.000/RC1
                                        PE 251.006/RC1
                                        PE 251.012/RC1
                                                 Or.pa


                              - page 2 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

K. whereas this accusation was subsequently replaced by
another alleging that Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas had insulted
the President of the Republic of Indonesia during a lecture he
gave at the Technical University of Berlin on 9 April 1995,
which led to his being sentenced to 34 months4 imprisonment on
8 May 1996,

L. having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation
in East Timor and the violation of human rights in Indonesia,

1. Condemns once more the Indonesian military repression of
the people of East Timor and expresses its solidarity with the
victims and their families;

2. Deplores the provocative acts perpetrated by the
Indonesians against freedom of religion;

3. Reaffirms its solidarity with the people of East Timor in
their fight for self-determination, and its condemnation of
the illegal occupation of East Timor;

4. Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners,
including Mr Xanana Gusmao;

5. Reaffirms its support for the UN-sponsored negotiations now
under way aimed at resolving the problems of the basis of
respect for human rights and the right to self-determination;

6. Calls on the Indonesian government to respond to the
initiative of the Portuguese government;

7. Reiterates its demand to the Member States of the European
Union to halt all military assistance and all arms sales to
Indonesia;

8. Recalls its resolution of 1991 to send a delegation on a
fact-finding mission to East Timor and insists that the
Indonesian authorities should refrain from trying to prevent
this visit;

9. Demands that the Indonesian authorities drop the charge
against Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas, withdraw the sentence and
rehabilitate him;

10. Calls on the Indonesian government to guarantee the
exercise of free and fair trials in the future;


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                       PE 250.944/RC1
                                           PE 250.957/RC1
                                           PE 250.958/RC1
                                           PE 250.963/RC1
                                           PE 250.965/RC1
                                           PE 250.966/RC1
                                           PE 250.981/RC1
                                           PE 250.987/RC1
                                           PE 250.998/RC1
                                           PE 251.000/RC1
                                           PE 251.006/RC1
                                           PE 251.012/RC1
                                                    Or.pa


                         - page 3 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

11. Urges the Indonesian authorities to stop violating the
rights of peaceful critics and activists and to guarantee all
individuals, including independent journalists, their rights
to freedom of speech and association as expressed in
international declarations on human rights and in the
Indonesian Constitution;

12. Calls on the Commission to report on the situation in East
Timor and on the violation of human rights in Indonesia and to
take all the necessary steps in order to do so;

13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the
Council, the Commission, the parliaments of the Member States,
the Indonesian Government, the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.








DOC_EN\RE\302916                             PE 250.944/RC1
                                             PE 250.957/RC1
                                             PE 250.958/RC1
                                             PE 250.963/RC1
                                             PE 250.965/RC1
                                             PE 250.966/RC1
                                             PE 250.981/RC1
                                             PE 250.987/RC1
                                             PE 250.998/RC1
                                             PE 251.000/RC1
                                             PE 251.006/RC1
                                             PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa


                         - page 4 -

-------------------------------------------------------------



  
--- pgp key on request ---

.
<hr>6/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-190</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-235</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108184145 text/html 1908
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:41:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1750
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Indonesian Airshow
Date: 28 Jun 1996 14:36:05

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)

To late to act on but maybe informative for some.

The Indonesian Air show '69 and eurosatory '96: Tow shows and
the countries that host them come of age
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996, page 1
Editorial

On IAS of last weekend: (...) IPTN's CN-235 will be there. The
maritime patrol version combines the best of Indonesian
airframe technology with an advanced combat information system
designed by Boeing's ARGOSystems.
Russian Design Bureau Rubin will also be present with their
famed Projects 636 and Kilo [submarines] designs. These boats
are already a major success in Indian and Chinese service.
Should Rubin have success in Indonesia, Asia will find another
"black hole" lurking beneath the waves.
Alcatel SEL AG will be there. Alcatel is a leader in the
production if frequency hopping radio's. (...)
Bofors AB will be there with its fine range of guns.
Singapore Technologies will be present with systems range from
artillery to armoured vehicle and aircraft upgrades.
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd. will arrive to show its range of trainer
and border surveillance aircraft.
Leica, Oerlikon Contraves AG, Bae, Rosvoorouzhenie, Rostvertol
and other fine companies too numerous to mention will also be
there.


.
<hr>7/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-191</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-319</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108184241 text/html 14050
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:41:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13891
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Arms acquisitions in Indonesia
Date: 28 Jun 1996 15:12:45

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)


The following article comes from the Asian Defence Journal,
because it outlines the major arms procurement programs in
Indonesia I gave most of the text. The first two pages
are not inluded they are about the strategic situation in the
region and the external threat. This emphasis is also seen in
the second part of the article on the harware of ABRI it looks
like all arms are used to defende the country, but of course
readers of this conference know arms are being used in what is
described in the third part of the article the internal
threat. Although the writer uses the vocabulary of the regime
in power the second part makes it problably worth for those
opposing arms trade to the country to read it.


Defending Indonesia: An Update
By Mark G. Rolls
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996

(...)
"Certainly the issue of appropriate deployment of ABRI forces
(especially air force units) is exercising the minds of
Indonesian defence planners at the moment. In April, it was
disclosed that Armed Forces Chief, Gen Feisal Tanjung, has
been instructed to review the existing deployment of forces
with particular attention being given to the need to ensure
the adequate defence of 'strategic projects' such as the
Natuna islands, and of economic growth centres where Indonesia
is cooperating in sub-regional economic cooperation with its
ASEAN neighbours. There may also be a public relations aspect
to such a move, in sense of seeking to reassure investors
about the security of such areas. Following a large joint
exercise by the navy and air force near the Natunas in
December (which included four F-16's, a B737-200 MR plane,
seven warships and a submarine), the commander in charge of
the navy's western fleet, Rear admiral Widodo, was reported as
saying that investors "should not worry about security when
investing in this area.The air force has undoubtedly
considered the need to deploy its assets accordingly as part
of its ongoing development and procurement programme. This
programme is aimed at the strengthening of Indonesian air
defences through the development of a three-tiered AD-system
(radar; anti-aircraft artillery and missiles; and fighter
aircraft) in the crucial strategic locations around north
Sumatra and South Java.
The recent emphasis in this system is on the acquisition of
more fighter aircraft (both 'Hawks' and F-16's), partly to
replace ageing aircraft as well as, perhaps, attempt to re-
establish the regional air superiority which Indonesia enjoyed
in the 1960's.
In 1993, Indonesia ordered 24 British Aerospace (Bae) 'Hawks'
(14 Hawk-100 trainers and 10 Hawk-200 fighter variants), the
first three of which have now been delivered with the reminder
to follow over the next two years. Indonesia is now
negotiating the purchase of an additional 16 hawks (most
likely to be all 200's, bringing the total to 40 aircraft. The
deployment plan for the first 24 aircraft is that they will be
stationed at Pekanbaru, east Sumatra, replacing ageing A-4
'Skyhawks', in order to augment air defences in an arc from
north Sumatra to Central Java (possibly including the
Natunas). The additional 16 Hawk 200s will be deployed to
Pontianak, west Kalimantan, almost certainly to facilitate the
conduct of additional tactical air patrols over the Natuna
islands; Pontianak being only some 400km south of the main
Natuna island.
It had initially been thought that the procurement of the 16
additional Hawks would preclude the purchase of some of the
Pakistani F-16's currently in store in the US on the grounds
of cost. This was despite the US offering some of them for
sale to indonesia and Indonesia having a long-standing desire
to possess a full squadron of F-16's (currently it has 11 F-16
A/Bs). Doubts about the possibility of a purchase also
resolved around whether or not Indonesia would accept the
Pakistani F-16 A/B's on offer (perhaps preferring a more
advanced variant), and about the ongoing friction in
Indonesia's military relationship with America [on the passage
of warships through the archipelago, MB] which had seen
Indonesia make a deliberate effort to look elsewhere for arms.
It now appears, however, subject to the satisfactory outcome
of ongoing discussions over legal issues and offset
arrangements, that Indonesia will opt for 9 of the 28 F-16
A/B's available. Indonesia, it seems, especially given its
desire to augment its existing F-16's, has undoubtedly
persuaded by the very favourable terms on offer. Moreover, it
fits in with a traditional Indonesian procurement pattern,
which has sought to maximise its equipment holdings, whilst
minimising the cost out-lay on expensive state-of-the -art
technology, by opting for less advanced (often second-hand)
equipment.
The package of 9 Pakistani F-16 A/B's is reported to cost only
US$ 162 million and Indonesia is seeking to effectively reduce
the outlay of hard currency through an offset package which
could account for some 30% of the total. Significantly, the
offset package could see Indonesia persuading the US to
purchase aircraft components made by the state-run IPTN. The
role of Bae in securing a European airworthiness certificate
for IPTN's CN-235 utility aircraft has been cited as one of
the reasons for its success in selling Hawks. It may be the
case that by getting the US to procure IPTN-produced aircraft
components, Indonesia (and especially its Minister for
Research and Technology, B.J. Habibie) is preparing the ground
for future sales of his aircraft in the American market;
possibly the medium-range jet airliner which IPTN is
developing.
Facilitating the prospective F-16 deal has been a general
improvement in the climate of military relations between
Indonesia and the US. (...) [IMET see reports of Charles
Scheiner, MB]
If air force modernisation and expansion has been seen as
important, then that of the navy, especially given the
increasing territorial waters, must be seen as crucial.
Indeed, the defence white paper makes explicit the need for
naval expansion with the section on the navy's development
stating that "material developments calls for the acquisition
of ships so that by the end of the Sixth Five-year Plan it
will have 127 ships." [Currently, the navy's total strength
(all categories including support, is 94 ships, although this
does not include all the East German vessels many of which are
not yet operational. The Military Balance 1995-116]. Given the
prevalence of low intensity threats noted earlier, the
emphasis in expansion is to be on "more patrol boats for
operation in shallow and narrow waters." 
The ongoing process of expansion, though, is somewhat
problematic in practice, centring as it does, on the 1993
purchase of 39 ex-Est German ships (including corvettes, LST's
and minehunters. Although broadly in line with naval
procurement requirements, it is notable that their acquisition
was influenced by B.J Habibie's attempt to link their purchase
with his ambitious plans for the development of Indonesia's
shipbuilding and repair facilities revolving around state-run
PT Pal.
The costs of the attendant support facilities (especially
given Ministry of Defence opposition to the purchase) has been
deemed prohibitive by the Finance Ministry, which has limited
the amount it is prepared to finance the vessels purchase and
refurbishment to $319 million. The wrangling over the
allocation of funds for refurbishment, and the limited amounts
proposed, has undoubtedly delayed the actual refurbishment of
many of these ships meaning that few are yet operational and,
even then, they will have limited capabilities. It is
arguable, however, that the acquisition of the East German
ships should be seen in the context of Indonesia's traditional
procurement pattern and, in fact, they may only be designed to
provide a transitional capability.
Future expansion plans, therefor, should be seen more in terms
of the construction by PT Pal of four more PB-57 patrol craft
[license of Lrssen Germany, MB], due to be delivered in 1997.
It is feasible tat the demand for more patrol craft to fulfil
a long-term requirement may be met by domestic production of
more such vessels. This may be part of a process by which
Indonesia seeks to develop its indigenous defence industries
("Defence industries are planned to attain the capability of
supplying and maintaining most of the Indonesian Armed Forces'
materiel needs."); a process which has been somewhat stop-
start over the past decade despite similar statements
previously. PT Pal has been trying to develop its expertise in
naval shipbuilding over the past few years through, e.g.,
collaborating with British shipbuilder Swan Hunter on the
refit of an ex-Royal Navy 'Rover' small class fleet tanker
('Arun'), which included a technology transfer component.
Ambitious plans for a 20 (or 30) indigenous frigate-building
programme are on hold, due to financial constraints, is the
Indonesian plan to double its submarine fleet (currently
consisting of two German T-209's) to four, which has been
deemed a 'minimum' requirement.
Whilst there have been limitations on the funding of the
purchase and refurbishment of the east German ships, a new
naval base at Telex Ratai, southern Sumatra, is being
developed to support their operation. Certainly, the
development of new naval bases is regarded as an important
component of Indonesia territorial waters by facilitating the
expansion of the navy's coverage of them. Two new bases at
Sibolga west Sumatra, and the Aru Islands are being developed,
and there are also plans to construct a naval port on the
Natuna islands ready for the commencement of the
aforementioned gas project.
Lastly, in terms of service modernisation (and it is
'modernisation' of existing capabilities rather tan
'expansion') the army is to acquire new equipment to improve
its armoured capabilities. It was confirmed in March last year
that Indonesia was to purchase 50 Alvis 'Scorpions'. Of these,
30 were expected to be Scorpion 90 light tanks with a 90mm
cannon [from Belgium; Cockerill, MB]; 2 were to be the command
version of the 'Stormer' variant; and the remainder a mix of
ambulance and transport versions of the Stormer. The first
deliveries (reportedly 26 Scorpions and 2 Stormer command
versions) began in October. The Scorpions are due to replace
some of the ageing Dutch AMX-13's which Indonesia acquired in
the 1970's. In addition, Indonesia is also upgrading limited
numbers of its existing 'Ferret', 'Saladin' and 'Saracen'
APC's to extend further their already long service lives.

(...)

The defence and security budget for 1996/97 remains at 1.5% of
GDP although the figure of US$ 3,32 billion is a 19% increase
over the one last year. This represents a significant
increase, but it is still less tan the 25% increase which the
Ministry of Defence had requested, partially to fund arms
purchases.

(...)

Though Indonesia has been very successful in pursuing policies
which have lowered poverty levels, given the background of
sustained economic growth , it appears that the ongoing
process of socio-economic change has led t problems which
challenge the preservation of internal stability. notable in
this respect is one of the unintended consequences of
sustained economic growth which has been increasing
disparities in income and wealth. Such disparities combined
with apparent frustration over the rather halting process of
political development has led to increased social unrest over
the past few years. This has been evinced most recently in a
series of student demonstrations in several Javanese cities
and the capital of Sulawesi, Ujung Pandang.
Fomenting some of the social unrest, by exploiting the
widening gap between rich and poor; ABRI believes (at least in
public), are elements associated with the banned Indonesian
Communist Party (the PKI). These are now thought to be
operating as 'new style' communists, or, so-called 'formless
organisations.' In actuality, however, it may be that the
threat to stability lies with the re-emergence of another
traditional ABRI concern, islamic extremists. Last year, it
had been reported, the military arrested over 400 supporters
of the concept of 'Negara Islam Indonesia,' which calls for an
Islamic state.
Whatever the case, ABRI remains acutely concerned about the
threat which social unrest poses to Indonesia's security and
stability; a concern which is inextricable linked to ABRI's
historic 'dwifungsi' (dual-function) doctrine. (...)
The main threat to Indonesia's unity has been identified as
lying in the separatist movements which are ongoing in Irian
Jaya and East Timor. The fear is that these movements
continued existence could provide an example for other
disaffected groups. The 'military' threat posed by the OPM and
Fretilin remains low-key and manageable despite a recent
upsurge in insurgent activity. (...) Separatism however,
remains a very intractable problems which is likely to remain
a threat to Indonesia's archipelago-wide political stability
for the foreseeable future.
For ABRI ten, 'dwifungsi', whatever its merits in the
Indonesian context, inevitably means a divided focus. Given
the continued challenges to internal stability, at a time of
potential significance, it will be a demanding task for ABRI
to fully develop its external capabilities whilst it also
keeps watch on the home front.






.
<hr>8/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-192</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B011-382</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108184342 text/html 1500
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:43:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1342
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ggs2@columbia.edu
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 29 Jun 1996 11:29:55

From: Gary G Sick  ggs2@columbia.edu 
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar

Dear David,

As you know, I operate an electronic library for specialists on Persian
Gulf economics, politics, and security. I have come to rely on the CDI
Arms Trade Data Base as the most reliable and comprehensive check of my
own research on new publications and data on arms transfers to the Middle
East. 

As a fellow practitioner, I understand how much time and effort goes into
the creation (and timely publication) of such information. I also
appreciate as a consumer the value of receiving this information in a
relaible and usable format, instead of being required to search for it on
the Internet and elsewhere.

Keep up the good work!

Gary Sick
Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University
Executive Director, The Gulf/2000 Project

.
<hr>9/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-193</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-39</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108184443 text/html 16108
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:43:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15949
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 53
Date: 28 Jun 1996 13:52:57

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 53
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 28, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Small Arms Management and Peacekeeping in Southern Africa, United Nations
Institute for Disarmament Research, Disarmament and Conflict Resolution
Project, UNIDIR/96/21, 114pp.

  AIA [Aerospace Industries Association] Update, June 1996, "U.S. Pursues
International Discussion on Offsets," pp. 1, 4.

  Jane's Defence Contracts, USA and Norway join on missile accord, p. ; and
[US] Missile activity from Portugal to Taiwan," p. 5.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 5 June 1996, "Germany plans to ease defence
exports," p. 8; "Philippines to make fighter decision soon,"p. 11; and
"Seoul '96 [aerospace exhibition] joins show scene," p. 11.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 12 June 1996, "First European showing for Russian
systems," p. 4.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 19 June 1996, "Surplus US fighters swell Israel's
air fleet," pp. 59, 61, 63-64, and 67.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 20, 1996, "Flying Into Flak: Controversy
mires major arms deals in Pakistan," pp. 15-16.

  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Jordan F-16s Will Counter Iraqi, Syrian
Threat, Pentagon Says," p. 5; and "`Russia Competing Aggressively For
Africa's Market'", pp. 12, 13.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, June 24, 1996, "U.S. Contractors Commit
Early to Paris Air Show," p. 31.

  Washington Post, June 24, 1996, "Arms Trade Menaces U.S. Security, Panel
Says: Clinton-Appointed Group Urges Restraint in Selling Conventional
Weapons to Other Countries," p. A9.

  Aerospace Daily, June 25, 1996, "Lockheed Martin F-16 team visits Poland,"
p. 493.

  Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy, by
Dr. Janne E. Nolan, Chair, Edward Randolph Jane II, Ronald F. Lehman, David
E. McGiffert, Paul C. Warnke, Publicly released June 25, 31pp. (Available in
its entirety in the Arms Trade Database; see below ATDB listings ) Also
released as a companion study was RAND monograph Arms Proliferation Policy:
Support to the Presidential Advisory Board by Marcy Agmon, James L. Bonomo,
Michael Kennedy, Maren Leed, Kenneth Watman, Katharine Webb and Charles
Wolf, Jr., (MR-771-OSD), 132pp. (Abstract available in database; see below)

  Defense News, June 24-30, 1996, "Panel: Security, Not Economy
 Should Drive U.S. Arms Sales," pp. 1, 76; "U.S. Readies Stinger Missile
Package for Taiwan," p. 3; "Europeans To Gain Ground in East Asian Arms
Market: Export Restrictions, Policies Hamper U.S. Growth in Region," p. 36;
"Export Variants Give U.S. Options," [op-ed] p. 45; "Yeltsin's Moves May
Calm U.S. About Arms Trade With Iran," p. 54; "Rising Costs May Scuttle
Pakistani Mirage Purchase," p. 58

Landmines
  International Security Digest, Vol. 3, No. 7, May 1996, "Convention on
Conventional Weapons Ends With Limited Results - Other Avenues Must be
Sought to Ban Landmines." 
  The Military Utility of Landmines.......?, Edited by Dr. Chris Smith,
North-South Defence and Security Programme, Centre for Defence Studies,
King's College, University of London, June 1996, 104pp. Contents include:
Background and Context, History of Antipersonnel Mines; Current Trends in
Landmine Technology; Landmines and the Czech Republic, Landmines and
Finland; Landmines and Sweden; Landmines and Germany; Landmines and the
United Kingdom; Do Landmines Have a Military Utility?; and Alternatives to APM.
  Jane's Defence Contracts, "UK Barmine to receive short-term face-lift," p. 4; 
  Congressional Record, June 19, 1996, "House Provision on Antipersonnel
Landmines," pp. S6483-S6484.
  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Full Slate of Counter-Mine Tools Due in
Bosnia By Fall," p. 3; and "Airborne Mine-hunter Could Fly Over Bosnia by
September," pp. 3, 5.
  The Nation, July 1, 1996, "Clinton's Minefield," pp. 5-6

 New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
  The bibliographies for Bahrain, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi
Arabia have been updated.
  (Just Came Out! Be the first on your block to download this.)
- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy. At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.presadvi.txt
- Arms Proliferation Policy: Support to the Presidential Advisory Board.
(Abstract) At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.rand.txt
  CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents (Continued from last list)
- Press Release: United Kingdom Pledges Active Support For A Global Ban on
Anti-Personnel Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.uksuppor.txt
- Proposed Changes to Article 14 of the President's Text, United Kingdom,
CCW, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propuk.txt
- Protocol II: President's Papers and Technical Annex: Article 2:
Definitions, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.proto2.txt
- Report of Main Committee I, CCW, May 1, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.maincom1.txt
- Report of the Credentials Committee, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.credenti.txt
- Statement by African Landmine Victim, CCW, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moon.txt
- Statement by Bosnian Landmine Victim, CCW, April 25, 1996, At 
 gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.pero.txt
 - Statement by Cambodian Landmine Victim, May 3, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.channare.txt
- Statement by Handicap International, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker.txt
- Statement by Trade Unionists of Valsella Factory, Italy, April 24, 1996,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.tradital.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Japan, Head of Japanese Delegation, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.kurokoch.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Norway, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.skogmo.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.shazukan.txt
- Statement by the Delegation of Canada, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moher.txt
- Statement by the Deputy Leader of the Delegation of India, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sood.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker3.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker2.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Belgian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.guillaun.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Brazilian Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.filho.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Irish Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.anderson.txt
- Statement by the President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.icrcstat.txt
- Statement by the Program Director, Human Rights Arms Project, January 19,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goose.txt
- Statement by the Representative of Italy on behalf of the European Union,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.italy.txt
- Statement by the Vice-President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.roethlis.txt
- Statement by Jody Williams, Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.williams.txt
- Statement by the U.N. Department of Humanitarian Affairs to the review
conference of the States Parties of the Convention on CCW, April 22, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.humanita.txt
- Sweden's Landmine Defense, from Swedish Save the Children, March 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sweden.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Belgium, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techbelg.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Canada, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techcana.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by France, CCW, April 24, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techfran.txt
- The Good News/The Bad News, Prepared by Human Rights Watch Arms Project,
April 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.good%26bad.txt
- The New Protocol--Not A Step Out of the Minefield, International Campaign
to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.notastep.txt
- Chap. 17 of SIPRI Yearbook 1996, "The Review Conference of the Inhumane
Weapons Convention," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goldblat.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Review Conference on the CCW, April 16,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.confresu.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen2.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen.txt
- We Are Outraged, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, May 1, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.outraged.txt

  Quotes of the Day
	"The extent of human rights abuses associated with armed conflict, as well
as the  increasingly sophisticated technological environment, means that
Amnesty International has to intensify its work to address the conduct of
security forces, and their international partners. When transfers of
equipment, technology, or training can reasonably be assumed to contribute
to human rights abuses, Amnesty International Campaigns against them.
	...Legislation and regulations should be established at national and
international level. These should prohibit any transfer of military,
security or police equipment, technology, training or personnel -- as well
as financial and logistical support for such transfers -- unless it can be
reasonably demonstrated that such transfers will not contribute to grave
human rights violations. These laws and regulations should ensure that the
human rights situation in the receiving country is taken into consideration
before any decision to approve a transfer. The supplier government should
take responsibility for the use of transfers through regular monitoring and
legally binding "end-user certificates" citing human rights criteria. All
information necessary to allow the country's legislative assembly to
exercise proper control over the implementation of the law should be
supplied and all transfers should be publicly disclosed in advance."
		-- Amnesty International Report 1996, pp. 17-18

	Blowback
	"All through 1985, we poured weapons into Afghanistan--heavy machine guns,
SA-7s, and the Oerlikon antiaircraft cannons, all of which began to produce
increasing aircraft losses for the Soviets. In addition to large increases
in weapons, we improved the logistics base and our ability to bring the
weapons, ammunition, food, and clothing to those inside Afghanistan--laying
the basis for the extraordinary Mujahedin success in 1986 and 1987. (This
included importing thousands of Chinese mules in Afghanistan to transport
weapons. We could not find enough suitable U.S. mules to meet our needs.)
Funds for 1986 were increased by more than $125 million over 1985, to be
used to buy many more weapons of all kinds.
	It was during this period that we began to learn of a significant increase
in the number of Arab nationals from other countries who had traveled to
Afghanistan to fight in the Holy War against the Soviets. They came from
Syria, Iraq, Algeria, and elsewhere, and most fought with the Islamic
fundamentalist Muj groups, particularly that headed by Abdul Rasul Sayyaf.
We examined ways to increase their participation, perhaps in the form of
some sort of "international brigade," but nothing came of it. Years later,
these fundamentalist fighters trained by the Mujahedin in Afghanistan would
begin to show up around the world, from the Middle East to New York City,
still fighting their Holy War--only now including the United States among
their enemies. Our mission was to push the Soviets out of Afghanistan. We
expected post-Soviet Afghanistan to be ugly, but never considered that it
would become a haven for terrorists operating worldwide."
From the Shadows: The Ultimate Insider's Story of Five Presidents and How
They Won The Cold War, Robert M. Gates (Former Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency) p. 349.

	Are you listening, Joel Johnson?
	"The Board finds that U.S. arms transfer policy can and should be developed
and executed separately from issues of maintenance of the defense industrial
base, which we believe are better handled by specific DoD industrial base
policy. We do not believe that arms sales that would be rejected on the
basis of foreign policy and national security considerations should be
approved simply to preserve jobs or keep a production line open. The Board
believes it is essential that the U.S. government takes steps to make this
policy clear at home and abroad."  (Pp. 15-16)
	AND
	"The Board rejects any notion that stepping back from well-conceived arms
restraint policies is the way to ensure the health of our defense industrial
base. The radical restructuring and adjustment to much smaller markets in
the world's defense industries will, as the RAND and other studies document,
continue in the foreseeable future. The export market is much too small to
offset the overall decline in defense procurement. Hence, the existence of
export sales opportunities for U.S. firms, while obviously valuable inn
preserving jobs and production lines in many cases, will not be sufficient
to allow the affected companies to forgo the downsizing required for their
survival." 
-- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy

.
<hr>10/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-194</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-96</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108184535 text/html 1334
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:44:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1176
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
From: M.Oosterman@inter.nl.net (Marja Oosterman)
Subject: VOTE FOR PEACE
Date: Thu, 30 May 1996 23:57:52 GMT

29 juni zijn er presidentsverkiezingen op IJsland. 
Deze verkiezingen worden aangegrepen voor een grootse aktie op
Internet: VOTE FOR PEACE.

IJslanders geven als hun hele geschiedenis het goede voorbeeld: sinds
de ontdekking van IJsland in 974 heeft dit land nog nimmer een leger
gehad.

De aktie wordt op internet gevoerd:

<a href=http://www.icemall.com/peace.html.>http://www.icemall.com/peace.html.</a>

De organisatoren van deze aktie hopen dat  vele stemmen voor vrede
deze pagina tot de grootste ter wereld zal maken.

VOTE FOR PEACE.

Een droom is een droom. Als vele mensen dezelfde droom hebben wordt de
droom werkelijkheid (vrij naar Yoko Ono)



.
<hr>11/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-195</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-163</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108184624 text/html 5657
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:45:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5499
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Internationaal Gerechtshof onder druk.
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 12:30:08 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Wed, 29 May 1996 23:12:32 +0200
Subject:   Het ICJ staat onder druk 

Het Internationaal Gerechtshof staat onder druk.

In december 1994, heeft de Algemene Vergadering van de UN 
(UNGA), ondanks de weerstand van de NATO Kernwapen Staten een 
resolutie aanvaard waarin het Internationaal Gerechtshof (ICJ) 
dringend gevraagd werd een uitspraak te doen over de vraag: "Is 
het dreigen met -- of gebruik van Kernwapens in elke situatie 
toegestaan onder internationaal recht?" 
Tijdens de publieke hoorzittingen afgelopen november hebben 16 
Anti-Kernwapen Staten nog meer druk van de USA, de UK en 
Frankrijk weerstaan en hebben goed onderbouwde argumenten voor 
het illegaal zijn van Kernwapens naar voren gebracht.  
China is niet verschenen en de overige Kernwapen Staten konden 
alleen Duitsland en Italie overhalen om in hun voordeel te 
getuigen.  

Het World Court Project (WCP) wacht samen met andere 
Vredesgroepen, en ook Milieugroepen op de beslissing van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof over bovenstaande vraag. Het is 
misschien wel de belangrijkste zaak, waarover het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof in haar bestaan, een uitspraak zal doen.  Een 
uitspraak, die nu toch wel verwacht zou mogen worden. Eerst werd 
deze uitspraak verwacht in Maart, daarna in Mei en nou zijn er 
aanwijzingen dat het wel eind Juni kan worden; net voor de 
sluiting van het hof, vanwege haar zomerreces.  
 
Een legitieme reden hiervoor is dat het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zeer zeker erg hard aan het werk is aan de Bosnie-
Joegoslavie-zaak.  Maar er blijken ook andere reden te bestaan 
die ons (Groepen binnen het Abolition 2000 netwerk, waaronder 
WCP en GANA) grote zorgen baren.  

1. Op een conferentie in Edinburgh van de International Law 
Association hebben we op 10 mei van Sir Robert Jennings (oud 
president van het Internationaal Gerechtshof te Den Haag) te 
horen gekregen dat het Internationaal Gerechtshof in financiele 
moeilijkheden is. Hij waarschuwde dat het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof gesloten werd.  Hij gaf aan dat het complete 
secretariaat van het Internationaal Gerechtshof naar huis 
gestuurd is; en het aantal vertalers (toch al onderbemand) nog 
verder is teruggebracht.  Hij vroeg iedereen zijn invloed aan te 
wenden om het hof te beschermen, speciaal op het moment dat het 
hof bezig is een beslissing te nemen over haar kostbare creatie. 
(voetnoot 1) 

Als deze uitspraak van Sir Robert Jennings in verband gebracht 
wordt met het feit dat de USA haar geweldige schuld aan het UN 
budget, waarvan het budget voor het Internationaal Gerechtshof 
slechts een klein deel van uitmaakt, nog steeds niet heeft 
betaald, dan is dat op zijn minst opmerkelijk.  (voetnoot 2) 

Sindsdien hebben we gehoord dat de Persofficier van het 
Internationaal gerechtshof plotseling met pensioen is gestuurd 
en niet zal worden vervangen.  

De ideale uitkomst voor de NATO kernwapen staten zou zijn dat 
het Internationaal Gerechtshof geen uitspraak kan doen vanwege 
het gebrek aan secretariele ondersteuning en vanwege ruzies 
tussen sommige ge-intimideerde rechters. Het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zou de zaak laten vallen, waarop de zaak behandeld 
zou worden afgedaan als irrelevant voor de Wereld.  Vooral de 
Britse en de Franse regeringen, in het bijzonder, vrezen dat, 
met een bevestiging van het Internationaal Gerechtshof dat het 
dreigen met -- en het gebruik van Kernwapens illegaal is, hun 
permanente zetels in de UN veiligheids- raad (UN Security 
Council) in gevaar zouden komen, omdat ze geloven dat ze die 
zetels alleen vanwege hun Kernwapen arsenaal bezitten.  Maar de 
rechters hebben echter hun reputatie hoog te houden.... en het 
zou duidelijk aantonen dat ze gemanipuleerd werden.  

2. Het is ook goed mogelijk dat het reusachtig belang van deze 
zaak de rechters parten speelt. Ze zijn er zeer zeker van 
doordrongen dat het toekomstige belang van het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zal worden be-invloed door hun uitspraak. Er wordt 
zelfs verteld dat ze onder druk zouden staan hun uitspaak uit te 
stellen tot na de ondertekening van de Comprehensive Test Ban 
Treaty, vanwege het eventuele negatieve effect dat hun uitspraak 
zou kunnen hebben op deze onderhandelingen.  

Voetnoten:
(1)  De kostbare creatie waar Sir Robert Jennings het over 
heeft, is de adviserende uitspaak van het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof of het dreigen met -- en het gebruik van Kernwapens 
legaal is of niet.  
(2) De Totale schuld van alle lidstaten aan de UN is 2,3 miljard 
Am.  Dollars. De USA neemt van deze totale schuld het grootste 
deel voor haar rekening nl. 1.6 miljard Am. Dollars.  

Ak Malten,

Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA).

..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>12/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-196</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-224</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108184716 text/html 4901
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:46:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4743
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Acties in de USA
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 12:37:18 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Wed, 29 May 1996 23:12:32 +0200
Subject:   Het ICJ staat onder druk en acties in de USA.

Acties in de USA rond het Kernwapen programma van de USA

Er zijn door belangrijke Vredesgroepen en Milieugroepen in de 
USA acties gestart rond het in de USA bestaande Kernwapens 
arsenaal; het uitbreiden in de USA van het Kernwapen arsenaal 
met nieuwe wapens en het in de USA doen van testen voor het 
instandhouden en uitbreiden van hun Kernwapen arsenaal.  De 
acties bestaan uit campagnes van belangrijke Vredes- en Milieu 
groepen om de Amerikaanse politici en het Amerikaanse volk voor 
te lichten over het buitensporige en provocerende Kernwapen 
arsenaal beheers- en besturings programma van het Ministerie van 
Energie (Department Of Energy (DOE)).  En nadat dit algemeen 
bekend is, dit beheers- en besturings programma te gaan 
controleren en het Kernwapen arsenaal in te krimpen.  

Een facet van deze acties is een brief gericht aan de Secretaris 
Hazel O'leary van het Ministerie van Energie (DOE) die voor eind 
mei aan haar verzonden zal worden.  
De brief is ontworpen om delen van het Kernwapen arsenaal 
beheers- en besturings programma (zoals het doen van 
"subcritical" tests (voetnoot 1)) af te remmen en een eerlijke 
discussie rond de Kernwapen politiek van de USA, met druk vanuit 
groepen, die strijden voor ontwapening, te openen.  Alle 
Amerikaanse Vredesgroepen en Milieugroepen worden dringend 
gevraag deze brief te ondertekenen.  
Op het moment dat ik dit schrijf, wordt deze brief ter 
ondertekening aan Amerikaanse Vredes- en Milieu organisaties 
rond gestuurd.  (sorry, het is jammer voor ons, maar we kunnen 
niet meedoen aan deze actie, tenzij je een Amerikaans paspoort 
hebt; het is een interne Amerikaans Politieke zaak. Indien je 
echter een Amerikaans paspoort wel hebt, dan kan je contact 
opnemen met Greg Mello van  de Los Alamos Study Group; E-mail 
lasg@igc.apc.org of Tel: +1.505.982.7747 en daar de brief 
ondertekenen met je naam en naam van de organisatie waartoe je 
behoort.) 

Afhankelijk van het antwoord van het Amerikaanse Ministerie van 
Energie (DOE) op de inhoud en standpunten, die in de 
bovengemelde brief staan, zal het onderhandelingsproces kunnen 
uitmonden in een proces tegen de DOE, vanwege het overtreden van 
de Nationale Milieupolitieke Wet (National Environmental Policy 
Act (NEPA)).  
Een kerngroep van organisaties, die op dit gebied werkzaam 
geweest zijn, zal met een juridisch team onderleiding van NRDC 
samenwerken om deze Nationaal Milieupolitieke onderwerpen met de 
DOE op te lossen of indien nodig een proces tegen de DOE 
hierover te beginnen.  

De bovenvermelde brief was toen ik hem in mijn bezit kreeg, 
reeds ondertekend door: 
American Friends Service Committee (Denver), Citizen Alert, 
Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety, Economists Allied for 
Arms Reduction, Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, 
Institute for Science and Security, Los Alamos Study Group, 
Natural Resources Defense Council, Physisian for Social 
Responsibility, Tri-Valley CAREs and Western States Legal 
Foundation.  

Voetnoten:
(1) "Subcritical" tests zijn o.a. testen met gebruik van 
nucleair materiaal ter grote van een briefkaart, wat tot 
ontploffing gebracht wordt met behulp van een laser, zonder dat 
bij deze ontploffing een daadwerkelijke kernreactie (= ketting 
reactie) plaatsvind. Maar natuurlijk is dit wel een nucleaire 
test en levert dit wel schade op voor het milieu.  

Ak Malten, 

Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA).  

N.B. Een afschrift van de bovenvermelde brief (in het Engels) is bij
ondergetekende verkrijgbaar.
(070-3608905).

Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten
         Irisstraat 134          Tel:+31.70.3608905
         2565TP The Hague        Fax:+31.70.3608905
         The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl

..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>13/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-197</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-283</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108184811 text/html 7932
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:47:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7774
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Protestbrief tegen Nucleaire testen
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 15:51:07 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Thu, 30 May 1996 22:46:06 +0200
Subject:   Engelse Protest brief aan President Clinton 
           tegen Nucleaire testen.

Beste vrienden,

Hieronder tref je een protestbrief aan, gericht aan President 
Clinton (in het Engels) klaar om te printen en te verzenden en 
een ruwe vertaling van deze brief in het nederlands.  

De brief is een bewerking door mij van de brief die Alice Slater 
op abolition-caucus gezet heeft en die bedoeld is voor 
Amerikanen om hun Senatoren aan te schrijven, met het verzoek 
een protestbrief aan Clinton te sturen.  

In de Protestbrief aan Clinton wordt hem gevraag de geplande 
"sub-critical" testen, niet uit te voeren. De eerste is gepland 
voor 18 juni; we hebben dus enige haast voor het uitvoeren van 
deze actie.  Kopieer de brief; laat mensen hun handtekening 
zetten en de brief opsturen.  

Groetjes, 

Ak Malten, 

GANA.
===============================================================================
The Honourable William J. Clinton
President of the United States of America
The White House
Washington, DC 20500
USA
 
Dear Mr. President,

        Please Mr. President, as a citizen of the Netherlands 
and on behalf of the World, its Nature and its Inhabitants, I 
urge you to cancel announced plans to conduct six "sub-critical 
" underground nuclear tests at the Nevada test site scheduled to 
begin on June 18th.  

        The tests are part of  a so-called plan for a $40 
billion "stockpile stewardship program" designed by 
unreconstructed cold warriors to "keep the design team 
together", as they work on megacomputers to design new nuclear 
weapons for use in space and as earth penetrators.  The 
weaponeers contend that they test merely to insure the "safety 
and reliability" of the ageing arsenal. But the purpose of the 
new form of nuclear testing, "sub-critical" in combination with 
the use of extensive computer simulation programs is actually to 
test new nuclear weapon designs in virtual reality and 
underground.  

        Rather than passively monitoring the nuclear arsenal 
while it awaits dismantlement, the USA has plans for a whole new 
panoply of nuclear experiments, including a $1.5 billion 
contract with Bechtel for "sub-critical" tests. It plans to 
equip the labs with technology for virtual reality computer 
simulations of new weapons, ie, the National Ignition Facility 
at Livermore, the Dual Axis Radiographic Hydrotest Facility at 
Los Alamos, the Jupiter Facility at Sandia, and other 
technologies which are sure to encourage proliferation by other 
countries who will doubt the USA's commitment to the promise 
made at the Non-Proliferation Treaty conference to work for 
nuclear disarmament.  

        Thus while CTB negotiations continue in Geneva for your 
professed goal of a "zero-yield" CTB, the weapons labs go 
forward with sub-critical and computer testing, making a mockery 
of the original intention of the CTB to end the development of 
new weapons.  In the June 18th sub-critical test in Nevada, high 
explosives will be detonated underground in proximity to 
plutonium without quite setting off a critical chain reaction, 
at a cost of $20 million dollars for each test.  

        Please support us in our efforts to end the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons by canceling the sub-critical 
tests and close the test sites.  

Sincerely, 








The Netherlands, June 1996.                                     

------------ wat volgt is een ruwe vertaling van de brief

Aan de Zeer Geachte Heer  W.J.Clinton
President van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika
Het Witte Huis
Washington, DC 20500
USA

Zeer Geachte Meneer de President, 

Als 't U blieft, Meneer de President, als inwoner van Nederland 
en omwille van de Wereld, haar Natuur en haar Bevolking vraag ik 
U vriendelijk, doch dringend om de aangekondigde zes "sub-
critical" ondergrondse nucleaire test in het Nevada testgebied, 
te beginnen op de 18 de Juni, niet uit te voeren.  

De testen zijn een onderdeel van het 40 miljard dollar kostende 
plan, "Het beheersprogramma van het Kernwapen arsenaal". Dat 
plan is ontworpen door niet met hun tijd meegaande Koude Oorlog 
krijgers "om hun ontwerp-team bij elkaar te houden", terwijl ze 
werken op hun supercomputers om nieuwe Kernwapens te ontwerpen. 
Deze nieuwe Kernwapens zijn bedoeld voor het gebruik in de 
ruimte en om door de aardkorst heen te dringen. De Kernwapen 
ontwerpers willen ons doen geloven dat ze alleen maar bezig zijn 
met het testen om de "veiligheid en zekerheid" te onderzoeken 
van hun ouder wordend arsenaal. Maar het doel van de nieuwe vorm 
van testen, "sub-critical" in combinatie met het gebruik van 
zeer uitgebreide computer simulatie programma's is het testen 
van nieuwe kernwapen ontwerpen m.b.v. virtual reality en 
ondergronds.  

In plaats van passief hun Kernwapen arsenaal te bewaken, totdat 
het ontmanteld zal worden, heeft de USA plannen gemaakt voor een 
geheel nieuwe serie van nucleaire experimenten, inclusief een 
1,5 miljard dollar kostend contract met Bechtel voor "sub-
critical" testen. Het heeft plannen om de wapenlaboratoria, 
zoals de National Ignition Facility in Livermore, de Dual Axis 
Radiographic Hydrotest Facility in Los Alamos, de Jupiter 
Facility in Sandia, te bevoorraden met technologie voor het doen 
van virtual reality computer simulaties van nieuwe wapenvormen 
en andere technische hoogstandjes. Andere landen zullen de 
Amerikaanse, tijdens de conferentie over het "Non-Proliferatie 
Verdrag", gedane belofte om te werken aan een ontwapening op het 
gebied van Kernwapens in twijfel trekken. Wat deze landen zeker 
zal aanmoedigen zich ook te bewapenen.  

Dus, terwijl de CTB onderhandelingen doorgaan in Geneve om het 
door U publiekelijke uitgesproken gewenste doel van een "Nul-
optie" CTB te bereiken, gaan de Kernwapen laboratoria verder met 
sub-critical testen en computer simulaties die de 
oorspronkelijke opzet van het CTB om de ontwikkeling van nieuwe 
wapens te be-eindigen, belachelijk maken. Tijdens de "sub-
critical" test van 18 juni in Nevada zullen zeer explosieve 
stoffen in de nabijheid van plutonium ondergronds tot 
ontploffing gebracht worden, zonder dat dit een Nucleaire 
kettingreactie van het plutonium ten gevolg heeft. De kosten van  
zo'n test is 20 miljoen dollar.  

Als 't U blieft, steun ons in onze pogingen om de uitbereiding 
van Kernwapens een halt toe te roepen, door de sub-critical 
testen niet uit te voeren en de testgebieden te sluiten.  

Hoogachtend, 


Nederland, juni 1996.
=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten
         Irisstraat 134          Tel:+31.70.3608905
         2565TP The Hague        Fax:+31.70.3608905  
         The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>14/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-198</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-337</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108184857 text/html 2561
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:48:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2403
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: smart@xs4all.nl (M a R T)
Newsgroups: alt.society.zeitgeist,alt.theosophy,ann.algemeen,ann.vrede,aus.general,bionet.general
Subject: FReeDoM, WHaT DoeS iT MeaN To U ?????????????
Date: Thu, 06 Jun 1996 18:01:51 GMT

Freedom.
Reality for you or just something abstract ?
What do you think freedom is? And what do you think freedom should be
for mankind.
Please help with this inquiry by filling in the following form.
The result of this inquiry will be published on:
		<a href=http://www.xs4all.nl/~smart/freedom>http://www.xs4all.nl/~smart/freedom</a>

=================================================================
                                              -=The Freedom Inquiry=-

Gender (Male, Female).[ ]
Age...................[  ]
Country...............[                                         ]
City                  [                                         ]
Lived before in.......[                                         ]
                      [                                         ]
                      [                                         ]
                      [                                         ]

Profession............[                                         ]
Education.............[                                         ]

Personal Freedom
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]

Ultimate Freedom For Mankind
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
=================================================================
		Send this form to: smart@xs4all.nl


--

                    There Is No Time Like The Present

.
<hr>15/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-199</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B012-393</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108184945 text/html 3664
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:49:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3506
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.
Date: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 18:34:41 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Hierbij wil ik ieder op de hoogte stellen van de komende acties tegen zowel
de Chinese als Amerikaanse Kernproeven.
China heeft vorige week zaterdag een ondergrondse Kernproef gehouden. China
heeft verder aangekondigd voor eind september nog een kernproef te willen
houden.
Daarna wil China in de komende 10 jaar geen Kernproeven meer te houden, om
na die periode e.v.t. te besluiten weer opnieuw Kernproeven te gaan uitvoeren.
Amerika heeft aangekondigd dit jaar 2 "sub-critical" Kernproeven te willen
houden en in de loop van volgend jaar nog een serie van 4 "sub-critical"
Kernproeven. De eerste Amerikaanse test zal 18 juni a.s. uitgevoerd worden in
de staat Nevada.

Hiertegen moet actie worden gevoerd. In de hele wereld zijn er dan ook in
deze en de komende week acties gepland.

In Nederland zijn er 3 acties gepland. Er wordt hierbij samengewerkt door
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Het Haags Vredes Platform, een scholierengroep
Zoutzuur,
Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance. Alle 3 de acties zijn in Den Haag, omdat daar
de Ambassades gevestigd zijn en ook het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken in 
Den Haag zit.
Het is de bedoeling de acties vreedzaam te laten verlopen.

Actie 1.: Een Demonstratieve Wake op maandag 17 juni om 20.00 uur voor de
          Amerikaanse Ambassade tegen hun voorgenomen "sub-critical"
          Kernproeven.
Actie 2.: Een protestdemonstratie op dinesdag 18 juni om 11.00 uur voor de
          Chinese Ambassade (A.Goekooplaan) tegen de onlangs uitgevoerde
Kernproef.
Actie 3.: Aansluitend aan actie 2. zal er als Minister van Mierlo ons zou 
          willen ontvangen, hem 4000 petities aangeboden worden en hem
          vriendelijk, maar dringend verzocht worden zijn stem te verheffen
          bij de Veiligheidsraad van de Verenigde Naties en de Kernproeven
          van zowel China als de Verenigde Staten af te keuren.

In de 4000 petities wordt de Nederlandse Regering de volgende eisen gesteld:
* Geen geld voor kernenergie;
* Geen steun aan de ontwikkeling en instandhouding van kernenergie in Oost-
  Europa;
* Investeren in duurzame energie en energiebesparing.

Iedereen die aan de actie wil meedoen is welkom.
Voor verdere informatie:
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Marie-Jose Godding, 077-3511684 (Venlo);
Het Haags Vredes Platform, 070-3457133 (Den Haag);
Global Anti-Nuclear Allinace, Ak Malten, 070-3608905 (Den Haag).

Hopelijk tot ziens op een van de of op alle demonstraties,
Reacties e.v.t. per E-mail aan: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905			         
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905					  
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>16/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-200</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-36</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108185037 text/html 4000
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:49:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3842
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: NIEUWE INFO:Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.
Date: Fri, 14 Jun 1996 09:53:38 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Hierbij wil ik ieder op de hoogte stellen van de komende acties tegen zowel
de Chinese als Amerikaanse Kernproeven.
China heeft vorige week zaterdag een ondergrondse Kernproef gehouden. China
heeft verder aangekondigd voor eind september nog een kernproef te willen
houden.
Daarna wil China in de komende 10 jaar geen Kernproeven meer te houden, om
na die periode e.v.t. te besluiten weer opnieuw Kernproeven te gaan uitvoeren.
Amerika heeft aangekondigd dit jaar 2 "sub-critical" Kernproeven te willen
houden en in de loop van volgend jaar nog een serie van 4 "sub-critical"
Kernproeven. De eerste Amerikaanse test zal 18 juni a.s. uitgevoerd worden in
de staat Nevada.

Hiertegen moet actie worden gevoerd. In de hele wereld zijn er dan ook in
deze en de komende week acties gepland.

In Nederland zijn er 3 acties gepland. Er wordt hierbij samengewerkt door
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Het Haags Vredes Platform, een scholierengroep
Zoutzuur,
Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance. Alle 3 de acties zijn in Den Haag, omdat daar
de Ambassades gevestigd zijn en ook het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken in 
Den Haag zit.
Het is de bedoeling de acties vreedzaam te laten verlopen.

Actie 1.: Een Demonstratieve Wake op maandag 17 juni om 20.00 uur voor de
          Amerikaanse Ambassade tegen hun voorgenomen "sub-critical"
          Kernproeven.
Actie 2.: Een protestdemonstratie op dinesdag 18 juni om 11.00 uur voor de
          Chinese Ambassade (A.Goekooplaan) tegen de onlangs uitgevoerde
Kernproef.
Actie 3.: Aansluitend aan actie 2. zal er op dinsdag 18 juni om 13.00 uur
aan             Dhr. Gevers, Hoofd Afdeling Ontwapening en Internationale

          Vredesvraagstukken van het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken, 4000 
          petities aangeboden worden en hem vriendelijk, maar dringend verzocht
          worden Minister van Mierlo vriendelijk, maar dringend te verzoeken 
          zijn stem te verheffen bij de Veiligheidsraad van de Verenigde Naties 
          en de Kernproeven van zowel China als de Verenigde Staten af te 
          keuren.

In de 4000 petities wordt de Nederlandse Regering de volgende eisen gesteld:
* Geen geld voor kernenergie;
* Geen steun aan de ontwikkeling en instandhouding van kernenergie in Oost-
  Europa;
* Investeren in duurzame energie en energiebesparing.

Iedereen die aan de actie wil meedoen is welkom.
Voor verdere informatie:
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Marie-Jose Godding, 077-3511684 (Venlo);
Het Haags Vredes Platform, 070-3457133 (Den Haag);
Global Anti-Nuclear Allinace, Ak Malten, 070-3608905 (Den Haag).


N.B. er zullen plaatselijke vertegenwoordigers van het CDA, de PVDA 
en Groen Links aanwezig zijn tijdens de demonstraties.

Hopelijk tot ziens op een van de of op alle demonstraties,
Reacties e.v.t. per E-mail aan: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905			         
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905					  
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>17/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-201</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-101</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108185129 text/html 2108
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:50:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1950
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Arnold.Klomberg@inter.nl.net (Arnold Klomberg)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Innerlijke vrede
Date: Sun, 23 Jun 1996 05:23:50 GMT

IK BEVIND ME IN HET CENTRUM VAN VREDE

De wereld daarbuiten heeft geen vat op mij. Ik sta aan het hoofd van
mijn eigen wezen. Ik bewaak mijn eigen innerlijke wereld, want daar is
het waar ik creëer. Ik doe wat nodig is om mijn eigen innerlijke
wereld vredig te houden.

Mijn innerlijke vrede is essentieel voor mijn gezondheid en welzijn.
Ik keer naar binnen en vind die ruimte waar alles rustig en sereen is.
Ik kan haar zien als een vredig, diep en stil meer, omringd met groen
gras en met hoge, stille bomen. Ik kan haar voelen als witte, golvende
wolken waar je op kunt liggen en vertroeteld kunt worden. Ik kan haar
horen als heerlijke, vloeiende muziek die mijn zintuigen streelt.

Hoe ik ook mijn innerlijke ruimte wil ervaren, ik vind vrede. In het
midden van die vrede bevind ik mij. Ik vorm de puurheid en de stilte
van mijn creatieve proces. In vrede creëer ik. In vrede leef en beweeg
ik en ervaar ik het leven. Omdat ik midden in die innerlijke vrede
blijf staan, vind ik vrede in de wereld buiten mij.

En hoewel anderen misschien in chaos en ruzie leven, heeft dat geen
vat op mij, want ik verklaar mijzelf in vrede. En ook al is er waanzin
overal om mij heen, ik ben kalm, rustig en tevreden. Het Universum
kenmerkt zich door grote ordelijkheid en vredigheid en ik weerspiegel
dit in ieder moment van mijn leven. Ik kies ervoor te-vrede-nheid uit
te drukken, want ikzelf ben vrede.
En zo is het.

(Louise Hay)

.
<hr>18/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-202</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-152</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108185215 text/html 1597
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:51:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1439
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 96 16:47:13 GMT

    Gevraagd: vredes-ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw 

    ZWOLLE (Omslag) - De Stichting voor Aktieve Geweldloosheid 
(SVAG) heeft ter gelegenheid van haar dertigjarig bestaan een 
prijsvraag uitgeschreven voor de beste vredes-ideeen en 
vredesfoto's. Dit meldt de SVAG in een persbericht.  

    De beste inzendingen worden opgenomen in het boek 'Vredes-
ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw', dat op 19 oktober verschijnt.  
Iedere deelnemer ontvangt een gratis exemplaar van dat boek.  
Bovendien zijn er tien geldprijzen beschikbaar, van honderd tot 
duizend gulden.  

    De presentatie van het vredesboek vindt plaats op 19 oktober 
in Utrecht, tijdens de manifestatie 'Naar een wereld veilig voor 
mens en milieu'.  

    Er is een speciale krant met uitgebreide informatie over de 
prijsvraag. Deze is gratis verkrijgbaar bij de SVAG, Postbus 
137, 8000 AC Zwolle. Tel. 038-4216587.  

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling 
.
<hr>19/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-203</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-219</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108185308 text/html 2351
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:52:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2193
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: bniels@future.antenna.nl (BAS NIELS)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Re: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 96 23:14:00 -0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------

O>    Gevraagd: vredes-ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw 

O>    ZWOLLE (Omslag) - De Stichting voor Aktieve Geweldloosheid 
O>(SVAG) heeft ter gelegenheid van haar dertigjarig bestaan een 
O>prijsvraag uitgeschreven voor de beste vredes-ideeen en 
O>vredesfoto's. Dit meldt de SVAG in een persbericht.  

O>    De beste inzendingen worden opgenomen in het boek 'Vredes-
O>ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw', dat op 19 oktober verschijnt.  
O>Iedere deelnemer ontvangt een gratis exemplaar van dat boek.  
O>Bovendien zijn er tien geldprijzen beschikbaar, van honderd tot 
O>duizend gulden.  

O>    De presentatie van het vredesboek vindt plaats op 19 oktober 
O>in Utrecht, tijdens de manifestatie 'Naar een wereld veilig voor 
O>mens en milieu'.  

O>    Er is een speciale krant met uitgebreide informatie over de 
O>prijsvraag. Deze is gratis verkrijgbaar bij de SVAG, Postbus 
O>137, 8000 AC Zwolle. Tel. 038-4216587.  

O>--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling 
O>                                                              
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Een TV-Kanaal gericht op de goede kanten van de mens.
(Positief-liefdevol-met respect voor alles-en eerlijk denken)
Want in de mind ligt de sleutel naar vrede.
En met het media gebeuren kom je tot de grote massa.
Wat is vrede? ?Geen oorlog. ?Rust met jezelf. ?Respect voor elkaar.
Tsjakkaa! Een oppep kanaal.
Maar het moet niet zweverig zijn.
(Hmmm, daar zou ik wel willen werken.)
????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
---
þ CMPQwk #1.42þ UNREGISTERED EVALUATION COPY

.
<hr>20/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-204</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-272</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108185401 text/html 2692
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:53:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2534
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: 8 juli uitspraak inzake Kernwapens door Internationaal Gerechtshof
Date: Sat, 29 Jun 1996 00:26:09 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Rob Green,  UK Chair World Court Project, belde me deze middag met het 
volgende verheugende nieuws en stuurde ieder lid van het Abolition 2000
Netwerk per E-mail het volgende bericht:
=======================================================================
>Dear Fellow Abolitionists, I have just heard from the Secretary of
>the World Court that Nuclear Judgment Day will be on Monday 8 July
>at 1000.  A Press Communique will be released shortly by the
>Court.

>Comments welcome on the effect this might have on the CTBT
>negotiations!

>Best wishes, Rob Green,  UK Chair World Court Project 

-----------
Vertaling voor de ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep:

Beste Mede Abolitioners, Ik heb net van de Secretaris van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof gehoord dat uitspraak inzake Kernwapens 
zal plaatsvinden op maandag 8 juli om 10.00. Een Persbericht zal 
spoedig door het Gerechtshof uitgegeven worden.

Kommentaar over mogelijk effect hiervan op de CTBT onderhandelingen
is welkom!

Hartelijke groeten, Rob Green, UK voorzitter van World Court Project.
---------

Voor ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep: Let op!!! ik kan wel E-mailen naar ANN.VREDE
maar ik kan de discussie op ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep niet volgen, dus graag
bij reactie een cc naar hieronder vermeld E-Mail adres.
====================================================================
Kommentaar in Engels of Nederlands welkom via E-Mail bij:

A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)


Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 Network,
                      A Global Network to Eliminate 
                      Nuclear Weapons
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>21/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-205</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B013-338</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108185459 text/html 6782
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:54:05 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6624
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: !!!Uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof inzake Kernwapens!!!  
Date: Sat, 29 Jun 1996 22:12:23 +0200

subject: Datum uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof/
         Datum van het ophalen van de Declarations of Public Conscience bij
         het Internationaal Gerechtshof.

Beste vrienden,

Hieronder volgt belangrijk nieuws inzake de uitspraak over de 
legaliteit van Kernwapens door het Internationaal Gerechtshof.
En wat betreft de Declarations of Public Conscience (DPC)
(Dat zijn Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn van particulieren
over de hele wereld verzameld, die aan de rechters van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof zijn aangeboden als ondersteuning
van de uitspraken van de verschillende landen tegen Kernwapens)

Het Internationaal Gerechtshof zal maandag 8 juli om 10.00 uur
een adviserende uitspraak doen inzake de legaliteit van Kernwapens.
(see COMMUNIQUE 96/21, sorry voor lezer van ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep,
maar ik heb geen tijd voor een vertaling).

Op dinsdag morgen 9 juli om 10.00 uur zullen de dozen met
Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn van particulieren voor 
de hekken van het Internationaal Gerechtshof worden opgesteld,
waarna ze door de Japanse TV worden gefilmd.
In het totaal zijn er 3.691.899 Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn 
door particulieren ondertekend, waarvan er alleen al in Japan 
3.338.408 zijn verzameld. 
Ik schat dat er ongeveer 120 dozen opgestapeld moeten worden.
Voor de nederlandse pers is dit OOK de gelegenheid om deze dozen 
te fotograferen en/of te filmen en een interview te houden met 
leden van het World Court Project. 
Nadat dit gebeurd is zullen de dozen weer ergens worden opgeslagen,
totdat ze aan de reis naar Engeland beginnen (sept/okt), waar
ze permanent tentoongesteld gaan worden in een vredesmuseum.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.

(Voor ANN.VREDE graag reacties naar mijn E-mail adres;
ik kan wel E-mailen naar ANN.VREDE, maar de discussie
op de nieuwsgroep niet volgen!)

E-mail Adres: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
===============================================================
June 28, 1996
 
Dear Abolition Friends,
RE: INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE TO ISSUE OPINION ON
JULY 8, 1996 IN THE HAGUE
 
Here at last is the news we've been waiting for from the
International Court of Justice in the Hague. They will issue their
advisory opinion on Monday, July 8 at 10:00 a.m. What follows is
the verbatim communique from the court. If you have questions,
please contact the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy in the U.S.
(212) 670 7794, the International Peace Bureau in Geneva,
Switzerland +41 22 731 6429, the World Court Project/UK +44 1323
844 269, or the International Physicians for the Prevention of
Nuclear Arms in the U.S. (617) 868 5050.
 
                International Court of Justice
               Peace Palace, 2517 KJ The Hague. 
                    Tel. +31 70 302 23 23 
                      Cables: Intercourt 
              The Hague Telefax +31 70 364 99 28
 
COMMUNIQUE
unofficial 
for immediate release
No. 96/21
28 June 1996
 
      Legality of the Use by a State of Nuclear Weapons 
                       in Armed Conflict
                (Request for Advisory Opinion 
               by the World Health Organization)
                               
       Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons
                (Request for Advisory Opinion 
        by the General Assembly of the United Nations)
                               
       Advisory Opinions to be delivered on 8 July 1996
                               
The following information is communicated to the Press by the
Registry of the International Court of Justice:
 
The Court will hold a public sitting at 10 a.m. on Monday 8 July
1996 in the Great Hall of Justice of the Peace Palace in The Hague
for the purpose of delivering its Advisory Opinions on the
requests made in the above cases by the World Health
Organization and by the General Assembly of the United Nations
respectively.
 
                      NOTE FOR THE PRESS
 
 
1. The public sitting will be held in the Great Hall of Justice of
the Peace Palace, The Hague, The Netherlands. Members of the
Press will be entitled to attend on presentation of an admission
card, which may be obtained upon application. The tables reserved
for them are situated on the far left of the public entrance of the
courtroom.
 
2. Photographs may be taken at the opening, during the first five
minutes of the sitting; and also for a few minutes towards its end.
Filming for television purposes is authorized; advance notice to be
given as per paragraph 6 below.
 
3. In the Press Room, located on the ground floor of the Peace
Palace (Room 5), the reading of the Court's Opinions will be
relayed through a loudspeaker.
 
4. After the close of the sitting, a press Communique will be
distributed in the Press Room (Room No. 5).
 
5. Members of the Press who wish to make telephone calls may use
the public telephones in the Post Office in the basement of the
Palace.
 
6. Mr. Arthur Witteveen, Secretary of the Court (Press and
Information Matters) (tel no. +31 70 302 23 36) will be available to
deal with any requests for information by members of the Press
or for making arrangements for television coverage.
 
-30-
 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
ABOLITION 2000: A Global Network to Eliminate Nuclear Weapons
                Pamela S. Meidell, Facilitator
                     Global Network Office
                         P.O. Box 220 
           Port Hueneme, California, USA 93044-0220
fax: 805/985 7563 tel: 805/985 5073 email: pmeidell@igc.apc.org
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 Network,
                      A Global Network to Eliminate 
                      Nuclear Weapons
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>22/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-206</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B014-43</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108185547 text/html 3150
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:55:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2992
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Willemijn Straeter  wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl 
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Vertaling persbericht Internationaal Gerechtshof d.d. 28 juni
Date: Sun, 30 Jun 1996 14:36:23 +0200

Hier onder volgt de (NIET-officiele) vertaling in het Nederlands van het
persbericht uitgegeven door het Internationaal Gerechtshof op 28 juni 1996
(nr. 96/21), betreffende de datum van een uitspraak over kernwapens.

Internationaal Gerechtshof
Vredespaleis, 2517 KJ Den Haag
tel : 070 302 23 23
fax: 070 364 99 28

Persbericht
nr. 96/21
28 juni 1996

RECHTMATIGHEID VAN HET GEBRUIK VAN KERNWAPENS DOOR EEN LAND IN GEWAPEND
CONFLICT (verzoek om een adviserende uitspraak door de Wereld
Gezondheidsorganisatie)

RECHTMATIGHEID VAN HET DREIGEN MET, OF HET GEBRUIK VAN KERNWAPENS (verzoek
om een adviserende uitspraak door de Algemene vergadering van de Verenigde
Naties)

Uitspraak zal gedaan worden op 8 juli 1996

De griffie van het Internationaal Gerechtshof verstrekt de volgende
informatie aan de pers:

Het Hof zal op 8 juli 1996 om 10.00 uur een openbare zitting houden in de
grote rechtszaal
van het Vredespaleis in Den Haag om uitspraken te doen  in bovengenoemde
kwesties, zoals gevraagd door  respektievelijk de Wereld
Gezondheidsorganisatie en de Algemene Vergadering van de Verenigde Naties.

MEDEDELING VOOR DE PERS
1. De openbare zitting wordt gehouden in de grote rechtszaal van het
Vredespaleis, Den Haag. Leden van de pers kunnen dit bijwonen op vertoon van
een toegangskaart die op aanvraag verkregen kan worden. De voor hen
gereserveerde plaatsen bevinden zich geheel links bij de publieke ingang van
de rechtzaal.

2. Er kunnen foto's gemaakt worden tijdens de opening, tijdens de eerste 5
minuten van de zitting en ook enkele minuten tegen het eind van de zitting.

3. In de perszaal, die zich op de begane grond van het Vredespaleis bevindt
(zaal 5), wordt de lezing van de uitspraken van het Hof door een luidspreker
weergegeven.

4. Na sluiting van de zitting zal een persbericht worden verspreid in de
perskamer (nr. 5).

5. Leden van de pers die willen telefoneren, kunnen gebruik maken van de
publieke telefoons in het postkantoor in het sousterain van het Vredespaleis.

6. De Heer Arthur Witteveen, Secretaris van het Hof (pers- en
informatiezaken; tel. 070-302 23 36) is beschikbaar voor alle
informatieverzoeken door de pers, of voor het maken van afspraken ten
behoeve van  tv-uitzendingen.



****************************************************************************
***********************


Een kopie van eventuele reakties in de nieuwsgroep, graag naar:
A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)


.
<hr>23/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-207</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B014-121</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108185650 text/html 12907
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:55:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 12748
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: Womens International League for Peace and Freedom  womensleague@gn.apc.org  (by way of Willemijn Straeter  wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl )
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: new CTBT text
Date: Wed, 3 Jul 1996 17:31:53 +0200

Hieronder volgen  de belangrijkste stukken uit de nieuwe compromis-tekst
voor een CTBT (Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty), zoals die afgelopen vrijdag
28-6-96 in Geneve door de voorzitter, ambassadeur Ramaker,  is voorgelegd
aan de Conference on Disarmament (CD). 

Deze tekst wordt nu door de 61 lidstaten van de CD bestudeerd. Het is de
bedoeling dat de CD-delegaties op 29 juli weer bij elkaar komen, om dan
(hopelijk) tot formele overeenstemming te komen. 
Als dat gelukt is, kan vervolgens de Algemene Vergadering van de VN (in een
speciale sessie in augustus) haar goedkeuring verlenen, om tenslotte in
september door de VN  ondertekend te worden.

De tijd ontbrak helaas om dit bericht uit de nieuwsgroup "abolition-caucus
in het Nederlands te vertalen, terwijl noch het Miniserie van Buitenlandse
Zaken, noch NGO-waarnemers in de CD, een (officiele) Nederlandse vertaling
zullen maken.

Graag weer Kopieen van eventuele reakties in de diskussiegroep naar:
wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl
of
A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)



========================================================================
The following is the interesting segments of the new text of the CTBT put
down by Jaap Ramaker 4pm Friday 28th June. Words that are underlined will be
in capitals for emailing purposes. Please excuse typos, I've done this in a
hurry to get it out ASAP, love felicity ruby 

Preamble

The States Parties to this Treaty (hereinafter referred to as "the States
Parties"),

WELCOMING the international agreements and other positive measures of recent
years in the field of nuclear disarmament, including reductions in arsenals
of nuclear weapons, as well as in the field of the prevention of nuclear
proliferation in all its aspects,

UNDERLINING the importance of the full and prompt implementation of such
agreements and 
measures,

CONVINCED that the present international situation provides an opportunity
to take further effective measures towards nuclear disarmament and against
the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects, 

and DECLARING their intention to take such measures,

STRESSING therefore the need for continued systematic and progressive
efforts to reduce nuclear weapons globally, with the ultimate goal of
eliminating those weapons, and of general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control,

RECOGNIZING that the cessation of all nuclear weapon test explosions and all
other nuclear 
explosions, by constraining the development and qualitative improvement of
nuclear weapons and ending the development of advanced new types of nuclear
weapons, constitutes and effective measure of nuclear disarmament and
non-proliferation in all its aspects, 

FURTHER RECOGNISING that an end to all such nuclear explosions will thus
constitute a 
meaningful step in the realisation of a systematic process to achieve
nuclear disarmament,

CONVINCED that the most effective way to achieve an end to nuclear testing
is through the 
conclusion of a universal and internationally and effectively verifiable
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, which has long been one of the
highest priority objectives of the international community in the field of
disarmament and non-proliferation,

NOTING the aspirations expressed by the Parties to the 1963 Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water to
seek to achieve the discontinuation of all test explosions of nuclear
weapons for all time,

NOTING ALSO the views expressed that this Treaty could contribute to the
protection of the 
environment,

AFFIRMING the purpose of attracting the adherence of all States to this
Treaty and its objective to contribute effectively to the prevention of the
proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects, to the process of
nuclear disarmament and therefore to the enhancement of international peace
and security,

HAVE AGREED as follows:

end Preamble

ON SITE INSPECTIONS

34. Each State Party has the right to request an on-site inspection in
accordance with the provision of this Article and Part II of the Protocol in
the territory or in any other place under the jurisdiction or control of any
State Party, or in any area beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State.

35.  The sole purpose of an on-site inspection shall be to clarify whether a
nuclear weapon test explosion or any other nuclear explosion has been
carried out in violation of Article I and, to the extent possible, to gather
any facts which might assist in identifying any possible violator.

36.  The requesting State Party shall be under the obligation to keep the
on-site inspection request within the scope of this Treaty and to provide in
the request information in accordance with paragraph 
37.  The requesting State party shall refrain from unfounded or abusive
inspection requests.

37.  The on-site inspection request shall be based on information collected
by the International Monitoring System, on any relevant technical
information obtained by national technical means of verification in a manner
consistent with generally recognised principles of international law, or a
combination thereof.  The request shall contain information pursuant to Part
II, paragraph of the Protocol.

38.  The requesting State Party shall present the on-site inspection request
to the Executive Council and at the same time to the Director-General for
the latter to begin immediately processing.

FOLLOW UP AFTER SUBMISSION OF AN ON-SITE INSPECTION REQUEST

39.  The Executive Council shall begin its consideration immediately upon
receipt of the on-site inspection request.

40.  The Director-General, after receiving the on-site inspection request,
shall acknowledge receipt of the request to the requesting State party
within two hours and communicate the request to the State party sought to be
inspected within six hours.  The Director-General shall ascertain that the
request meets the requirements specified in part II, paragraph 41 of the
Protocol, and, if necessary, shall assist the requesting State party in
filing the request accordingly, and shall communicate the request to the
Executive Council and to all other States Parties within 24 hours.

41.  When the on-site inspection request fulfills the requirements, the
Technical Secretariat shall begin preparations for the on-site inspection
without delay.

42.  the Director-General, upon receipt of an on-site inspection request
referring to an inspection area under the jurisdiction or control of a State
Party, shall immediately seek clarification from the State party sought to
be inspected in order to clarify and resolve the concern raised in the request.

43.  A State party that receives a request for clarification pursuant to
paragraph 42 shall provide the Director-General with explanations and with
other relevant information available as soon as possible, but no later than
72 hours after receipt of the request for clarification.

44. The Director-General, before the Executive Council takes a decision on
the on-site inspection request, shall transmit immediately to the Executive
Council and additional information available from the International
Monitoring System or provided by any State Party on the event specified in
the request, including any clarification provided pursuant to paragraphs 42
and 43, as well as any other information from within the Technical
Secretariat that the Director-General deems relevant or that is requested by
the Executive Council.

45.  Unless the requesting State party considers the concern raised in the
on-site inspection request to be resolved and withdraws the request, the
Executive Council shall take a decision on the request in accordance with
paragraph 46.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL DECISIONS

46.  The Executive Council shall takes a decision on the on-site inspection
request no later than 96 hours after receipt of the request from the
requesting State party. The decision to approve the on-site inspection shall
be made by a majority of all members of the Executive Council.  If the
Executive Council does not approve the inspection, preparations shall be
stopped and no further action on the request shall be taken.

47.  No later than 25 days after the approval of the on-site inspection in
accordance with paragraph 46, the inspection team shall transmit to the
Executive Council, through the Director-General, a progress inspection
report.  The continuation of the inspection shall be considered approved
unless the Executive Council, no later than 72 hours after receipt of the
progress inspection report, decides by a majority of all its members not to
continue the inspection.  If the Executive Council decides not to continue
the inspection, the inspection shall be terminated, and the inspection team
shall leave the inspection area and the territory of the inspected State
Party as soon as possible in accordance with Part II, paragraphs 109 and 110
of the Protocol.

END ON ON-SITE INSPECTION TEXT THAT I HAVE

REVIEW OF THE TREATY - ARTICLE VIII

1.  Unless otherwise decided by a majority of the States Parties, ten years
after the entry into force of this Treaty, a Conference of the States
Parties shall be held to review the operation and effectiveness of this
Treaty, with a view to assuring itself that the objectives and purposes in
the Preamble and the provisions of the Treaty are being realized.  Such
review shall take into account any new scientific and technological
developments relevant to this Treaty.  On the basis of a request by any
State Party, the Review Conference shall consider the possibility of
permitting the conduct of underground nuclear explosions for peaceful
purposes.  If the Review Conference decides by consensus that such nuclear
explosions may be permitted, it shall commence work without delay, with a
view to recommending to States parties an appropriate amendment to this
Treaty that shall preclude any military benefits of such nuclear explosions.
Any such proposed amendment shall be communicated 
to the Directory-General by any State Party and shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provision of Article VII.

2.  At intervals of ten years thereafter, further Review Conferences may be
convened with the same objective, if the Conference so decides as a matter
of procedure in the preceding year.  Such Conferences may be convened after
an interval of less than ten years if so decided by the Conference as a
matter of substance.

3.  Normally, any Review Conference shall be held immediately following the
regular annual session of the Conference provided for in Article II.

END OF REVIEW

ENTRY INTO FORCE - ARTICLE XIV

1.  This Treaty shall enter into force 180 days after the date of deposit of
the instruments of 
ratification by all States listed in Annex 2 to this Treaty, but in no case
earlier than two years after its opening for signature.

2.  If this Treaty has not entered into force three years after the date of
the anniversary of its opening for signature, the Depository shall convene a
Conference of the States that have already deposited their instruments of
ratification on the request of a majority of those States.  That Conference
shall examine the extent to which the requirements set out in paragraph 1
has been met and shall consider and decide by consensus what measures
consistent with international law may be undertaken to accelerate the
ratification process in order to facilitate the early entry into force of
this Treaty.

3.  Unless otherwise decided by the Conference referred to in paragraph 2 or
other such conferences, this process shall be repeated at subsequent
anniversaries of the opening for signature of this Treaty, until its entry
into force.

4.  All States signatories shall be invited to attend the Conference
refereed to in paragraph 2 and any subsequent conferences as referred to in
paragraph 3, as observers.

5.  For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are deposited
subsequent to the entry into force of this Treaty, it shall enter into force
on the 30th day following the date of deposit of their instruments of
ratification or accession.





.
<hr>24/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=58&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-208</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B015-24</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108185736 text/html 1608
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:56:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1450
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: emmac@foe.co.uk
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Help needed on orimulsion
Date: 29 May 1996 10:52:29

From: emmac@foe.co.uk (Emma Craig)

>From Pat Craig (via her daughter Emma Craig and I can pass on any 
message to her)

Dear friends

A cry for help follows

We live  on the beautiful and environmentally  important Pembrokeshire 
coast where there was a serious  oil spill when the Sea Empress went 
aground in February.

This has revived and extended anxiety about the proposal  to burn 
orimulsion in Pembroke and to land it in Milford Haven, approaching 
which the Sea Empress was holed.

Because our association with Medact and IPPNW we have been asked "what 
can your organisation do about it?"  We feel there must  be something.

A grass roots response by local  physicians is taking shape.  What they 
need is  to be in touch with any physicians who have experience  of the 
medical consequences of using orimulsion.



In peace

Pat Craig


-- 


------
These personal opinions do not necessarily reflect the policy of Friends 
of the Earth.
.
<hr>287/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=319&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-209</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B015-92</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108185832 text/html 3201
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:57:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3043
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: cnd@gn.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: No Subject Given
Date: Wed, 29 May 1996 21:23:25 +0100 (BST)

From: cnd (The CND staff team)

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday 21 May 1996


Chinese Nuclear Test 'imminent'

China is expected to conduct a nuclear test in the next few days, say the 
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND).

According to Jane's Defence Weekly (24 April 1996), the peak seasons for 
testing at China's Lop Nor test site are mid-May to mid-June, and mid-
September to mid-October.  

A briefing paper from CND published today states that China's current 
testing programme involves warheads for two new missile systems, one for 
deployment in the late 1990s, and another for around 2010.  China is also 
developing a new sea-launched missile (JL-2) for deployment on its second 
generation strategic nuclear-powered submarine.

China has said it will abide by a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), but 
probably only when it enters into force - which could be some time after 
the actual signing.  When the current round of CTBT negotiations began in 
Geneva on 13 May China was still presenting a major obstacle to the 
conclusion of a test ban by continuing to insist on the right to conduct 
so-called 'Peaceful Nuclear Explosions' (PNEs).  Chinese officials have 
added that they intend to carry out between four and six more nuclear tests 
before implementing any test ban.

CND Chair Janet Bloomfield said:

"There is no such thing as a 'peaceful nuclear explosion', as China claims.  
Such explosions could be used to collect data to assist in nuclear weapons 
development, would be impossible to verify as being solely peaceful in 
nature, and would cause widespread environmental destruction.

"China should abandon its false claim to the right to conduct PNEs, and 
adopt instead the proposal for a zero yield test ban, as advocated by the 
other four nuclear weapon states.

"The Chinese Government should learn the lessons of the French nuclear 
testing programme.  By pressing ahead regardless, it risks becoming a 
pariah nation, isolated itself from the international community and 
threatening trade links.

"A nuclear test now would come as yet another hammer blow to the 
Comprehensive test Ban Treaty, already delayed by a year and beset by 
arguments over the nuclear club's seeming double-standards."

Press Enquiries and full report on Chinese nuclear testing available from 
0171-700 2393.
                                  
Ian Cleary - Membership and Fundraising Development Worker

The CND staff team (cnd@gn.apc.org)
162 Holloway Road
LONDON
N7 8DQ
tel: (uk)171 700 2393
fax: (uk)171 700 2357

.
<hr>288/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-210</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B015-134</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108185935 text/html 16985
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:58:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16826
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ekahan@post.tau.ac.il
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Auschwitz (fwd)
Date: 30 May 1996 00:28:06

From: "Dr. Ernesto Kahan"  ekahan@post.tau.ac.il 


Dear Dr Hammel:


Here's an update I have tracked down from Judy Balint, US national
director of the Coalition for Jewish Concerns-Amcha.  It has correct e-
mail addresses, as well as information on how to stay informed in the
future.

I still feel very frustrated that the original message contained so many
errors.  Have you been able to identify the original sender, at least to
make sure that these errors are not being repeated?

warm regards,

Ernesto Kahan MD MPH
Head Epidemiology Unit
Institute for Occupational Health
Tel  Aviv University
and
President
Physicians for Peace and Preservation of the Environment
Israel( Affiliated to IPPNW) 


Text of message from JudyB14868@aol.com, 26 May 1996, 02:29 AM
Dear Dr Forrow, IPPNW 


[To keep up with this kind of thing, please subscribe to the amcha list.
 Send message to listproc@shamash.org.  Subject: none.  Message: subscribe
amcha yourfirstname yourlastname.]

If you could circulate this updated info, I'd appreciate it.

Here's the update on the shopping center project at Auschwitz:  Please
note that there is still a church in a building at Birkenau (Auschwitz-2)
which was the headquarters of the SS commandant.  We have protested the
church since 1993, but unfortunately, many organizations and individuals
who have spoken out against the shopping center are unwilling to confront
the Catholic church on this issue.

Please note dates on Reuters reports:


      WARSAW, April 23 (Reuter) - The investor behind a controversial plan
      to
build a supermarket near the former World War Two Auschwitz death camp has
decided to drop the project, PAP news agency reported.

    The agency late on Monday quoted Janusz Marszalek, head of the Maja
company developing the site in southern Poland, as saying it had halted
all work there and would not resume it.

    Marszalek added that Maja, linked to a children's charity of the same
name, would seek compensation in court for the costs of work done so far
and for loss of earnings from the project.

    The development, in existing buildings near the gate of the former
    camp
in southern Poland, where the Nazis murdered more than a million people,
aroused protests from Israel as well as Jewish and other groups that it
was inappropriate.

    Most of those killed at the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp complex were Jews
    and
their scattered ashes make the site, now a museum, a vast Jewish cemetery.

    The provincial governor suspended work on the scheme in March after
Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski, who had spoken with Israel's
Parliament Speaker Shevach Weiss, criticised the project.

    Marszalek said part of the earnings from the scheme had been destined
    for
the Maja charity, to support local orphans.

    ``I hope that President Kwasniewski, in his conversation with Mr
    ``Weiss,
did not deliberately decide to wreck the activities of Maja, a body
operating according to Polish law to bring help to orphans,'' Marszalek
said.

    The question of how to preserve Auschwitz, a chief symbol of the
Holocaust, has repeatedly been an irritant in relations between Polish
authorities and Jewish communities worldwide.

    Poland, seeking to improve such ties, is considering new options for
    the
running of the museum site, already overseen by an international
committee, to avoid such friction in future.

04:39 04-23-96
****************************

POLISH GOVERNMENT CONCEDES TO PROTESTS ON AUSCHWITZ SHOPPING CENTER


"We are gratified at yesterday's announcement by Polish Foreign Minister
Dariusz Rosati that construction of a shopping center at Auschwitz has
been permanently halted," noted Rabbi Avi Weiss, president of the
Coalition for Jewish Concerns-Amcha. "The foriegn minister's statement is
clearly a reaction to widespread protests against the latest attempt at
the desecration of memory at Auschwitz, " he added.

 In recent weeks CJC-Amcha had mounted a series of demonstrations in
Washington, New York and Toronto against the shopping center project. At a
Washington DC news conference last month, Rabbi Weiss and Representative
Eliot Engel (D-NY) announced the introduction of a resolution (HR 398)
into the US Congress condemning development and calling for a permanent
solution to ongoing violations at Auschwitz.  Unresolved issues at
Auschwitz-Birkenau include the presence of a church in a building which
was SS commandant headquarters at Birkenau; a 24' cross outside the old
convent building and numerous crosses in front of Auschwitz crematoria,
documented by Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel.

Reacting to yesterday's announcement, Rabbi Weiss noted that the foreign
minister's statement vindicates our contention that this matter is the
responsiblity of highest levels of the Polish government. When the
controversy first surfaced, Polish authorities claimed they had no control
over local officials who had given the go-ahead to developers.

"In light of our previous experiences in calling for removal of the
Auschwitz convent, we know that we will have to continue to monitor the
situation carefully," noted CJC-Amcha national director Judy Balint.  "If
construction does resume, we will be back there to sit in front of the
bulldozers."

The Coalition for Jewish Concerns-Amcha and the International Association
of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists have engaged the Washington DC law firm of
Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering to represent them in  the effort to prevent any
violations of international law at Auschwitz.
****************************
POLISH PM RAPS EU STATEMENT

      WARSAW, April 25 (Reuter) - Poland's Prime Minister assured the
European Parliament on Thursday that Warsaw would safeguard the site of
the former Auschwitz death camp, but he reprimanded the body for
suggesting Poles needed a lesson about racism.

    Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz, in a letter to the parliament, said it had
    made
comments about raising Polish awareness of racism and anti-Semitism which
were ``difficult to understand.''

    Last week the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning
    plans
to build a supermarket near Auschwitz, where World War Two German invaders
murdered one million Jews as well as many thousands of Poles and other
people.

    The resolution criticised Polish local authorities for allowing a
subsequent demonstration by an extreme right-wing fringe group at the
Auschwitz-Birkenau complex, now a museum.

    It suggested that the European Commission, in its relations with
    Poland
which is eagerly seeking European Union membership, should encourage moves
to strengthen Poles' awareness of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.

    Cimoszewicz said his cabinet had halted the supermarket project,
    earlier
sanctioned by authorities in the southern town of Oswiecim, and had
condemned the rightist demonstration.

    But he added: ``Poland lost six million people during the World War
    Two
and has not forgotten that there were three million Jews among them.''

    ``Treating incidental and deplorable demonstrations of xenophobia and
anti-Semitism as representing the feelings of the whole of Polish society
is deeply unjust,'' Cimoszewicz said in the letter, released by the
government press office.

    He added, however, that his government was ready to support a European
Parliament initiative to open a European cultural centre in
Auschwitz-Birkenau, to promote tolerance and friendship between nations.

    The ashes of a million Jews scattered by their German killers at
Auschwitz-Birkenau make it a vast Jewish cemetery and disputes about how
it should be preserved have repeatedly generated friction in relations
between Poland and Jewish communities worldwide.

    Poland has launched a campaign to improve such ties and is examining
changes to the way the camp sites, already overseen by an international
committee, are administered.

16:08 04-25-96
**********************************
      WARSAW, April 30 (Reuter) - An international Auschwitz committee
      agreed
on Tuesday that a controversial supermarket scheme near the former death
camp should be axed but proposed that a visitors' cafeteria should be
opened on the site.

    News that local authorities in southern Poland had granted a developer
permission to build a supermarket and fast-food restaurant in an existing
building opposite the gate to the camp sparked controversy earlier this
year, and the project was suspended after Poland's president and
government opposed it.

    The five-member presidium of the international committee overseeing
    the
Auchwitz museum, after a one-day meeting, agreed the supermarket should be
scrapped.

    ``But the committee advocated opening in the existing building just a
food outlet for tourists and a shop for basic foodstuffs, souvenirs and
informative literature,'' it said in a statement quoted by Poland's PAP
news agency.

    It said a snack-bar and car park which have long existed on the
    grounds
of the museum should be moved out, PAP reported.

    German invaders during World War Two murdered more than a million Jews
    as
well as many thousands of Poles, Gypsies, Russians and others at Auschwitz
and the nearby Birkenau camp.

    Jewish groups and others said the supermarket was inappropriate within
    a
500-metre zone around the Auschwitz perimeter.

    But local people in the adjoining town of Oswiecim argue that their
property rights and interests should be taken into account when
implementing the so-called protected zone.

    The museum committee, headed by Poland's former foreign minister and
Auschwitz survivor Wladyslaw Bartoszewski, recognised that Oswiecim town
had trouble attracting investment because of its proximity to the former
camp.

    It proposed calling a conference of experts to help boost the town's
development in the interests of residents, PAP said.

    But the committee, whose decisions are likely to be backed by the
    Polish
government, proposed a clear review of the authority of local and central
government to decide any future plans concerning the two sites and the
zone around Auschwitz.

    It said the zone should be enforced according to common sense and
    earlier
agreements with the U.N.'s educational agency UNESCO so that places
associated with the camp's past are preserved.

    At present the museum, which is under Poland's culture ministry, has
authority over the Auschwitz camp but local or provincial authorities
control the zone around it and the site of the Birkenau camp three kms
(two miles) away.

    World Jewish Congress (WJC) vice-president Kalman Sultanik, who is
vice-chairman of the museum committee, told Reuters on Monday the zone and
Birkenau should be removed from local authorities' control.

    He also told Reuters he would press for the destruction of the
    building
where the supermarket was to have been housed so that nothing could be
built there.

    A decision by the provincial governor to allow a demonstration at the
camps early this month by a fringe right-wing extremist group aroused
international concern and a reprimand from the central government.

13:36 04-30-96
PROTESTS HALTED THE AUSCHWITZ SHOPPING CENTER PROJECT -- IT'S TIME TO STOP
THE OTHER DESECRATIONS OF MEMORY AT AUSCHWITZ!


Just last month,  Polish officials called a halt to the development of a
shopping center at the Auschwitz death camp.  Building was already in
progress when worldwide protests including a resolution in the US
Congress, agressive worldwide e-mail and fax petition campaigns and the
threat of Jewish protestors putting themselves in front of the bulldozers
caused Polish authorities to reconsider their decision granting permission
for the development.

Now--let's do the same for the remaining assaults on memory still occuring
at Auschwitz-Birkenau.  Don't allow history to be revised at the largest
Jewish cemetery in the world.

1) Protest the church at Birkenau which occupies a building constructed to
house the SS commandant's headquarters.  The church, with huge crosses on
its roof and in front of the building, is in direct violation of a 1987
Geneva agreement signed by European Cardinals and Jewish leaders which
states: "There shall be no Catholic places of worship at
Auschwitz-Birkenau."

2) Demand the removal of the Society of Victims of War organization from
their illegal occupation of the former convent building at Auschwitz 1.
The Society displays banners on the convent fence reading: 'Protect the
Cross and the Carmelite Sisters from Attacks by Jews and Freemasons.'
Polish authorities have turned a blind eye to these inciteful signs.

3)  Nobel Laureate and death camp survivor, Elie Wiesel has spoken and
written about his pain at seeing crosses in front of the crematoria at
Auschwitz 1. "I felt wounded," Wiesel told Charlie Rose in a TV interview
on August 10, 1994. "It's not proper. That's not what should be
remembered. We were not embraced by the cross. The cross was not there to
help us."

4) Call for the removal of Auschwitz Museum officials who publicly
supported the development of a shopping plaza at Auschwitz.  By their
actions in support of this project, directors, Jerzy Wroblewski and
Krystyna Oleksy
 have lost credibility as custodians of memory at Auschwitz and should be
replaced.

5) Support the nomination of the independent Auschwitz Awareness Society
of Canada to permanent delegate status at the International Auschwitz
Council--the body responsible for oversight of Auschwitz.  The Awareness
Society, a multi-faith group,  has struggled for many years to preserve
the true character of Auschwitz.

 Convey your concern to:

President Aleksander Kwasnieski, Mamiestnikowski Palace, Warsaw, Poland.
Fax: 011-48-22-628-47-01.

Prime Minister W. Cimoszewicz, A. Ujazdowskie 1/3, 00-583 Warsaw, Poland.
Fax: 011-48-22-628-6846

Polish Consul General in New York. Mr. J. Surdykowski: Tel: 212-889-2066.
Fax: 212-779-3062.

Ambassador of Poland to the US, Tel: 202-224-3800. Fax: 202-328-6271

Please send copies of your correspondence to Rep. Eliot Engel, 1433
Longworth Building, Washington DC 20515.  Fax: 202-225-5513
****************************
Try these e -mail addresses for the Polish ambassador:

polamb@hookup.com, embpol@dgs.dgsys.com
**********************************************
LATEST AUSCHWITZ PROPOSALS:

Friday, May 17, 1996
President Alexander Kwasniewski
Namiestnikowski Palaace
Warsaw, Poland

Dear President Kwasniewski,

We have just learned from our sources in Poland that Mayor Andrzej Telka
of Oswiecim is proposing yet another inappropriate development project in
his town which would desecrate the memory of the victims of the Auschwitz
death camp. You have spoken out boldly against the development of a
shopping center just outside the gates of Auschwitz and we urge you to use
the power of your office to put an end to Mayor Telka's new plans.

The proposal to create an amusement area next to the Sola River
overlooking the death camp is yet another example of insensitivity on the
part of some local officials to the tragic history of Oswieicim.  The
prospect of circus lights and a ferris wheel adjacent to the largest
Jewish cemetery in the world is appalling.

We are publicly calling upon Mayor Telka to resign his post since he
continues to violate the sensitivities of all those in Poland and abroad
who are concerned with the accurate and appropriate preservation of memory
of those who perished at Auschwitz.

Mr. President, when will the attempts to erase memory and trivialize
history stop? The European Parliament and the United States Congress
condemned the shopping center construction in the strongest terms and we
have no doubt that the reaction to Mayor Telka's current proposal will be
even harsher.  We have contacted our U.S congressional representatives and
legal advisors to apprise them of these latest developments.

Now it remains for you to once again speak out forcefully against the
desecration of memory and to ensure that those who continue to attempt to
violate sensibilities are appropriately censured.


Sincerely,

Rabbi Avi Weiss
National president

cc: Rep. Eliot Engel, U.S Congress
      Rep. Ben Gilman, chair, International Relations Committee, U.S.
Congress
      Chairman Klaus Hansch, European Parliament

.
<hr>289/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-211</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B015-192</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108190037 text/html 1700
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 19:59:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1542
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ekahan@post.tau.ac.il
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Elections in Israel. The day after
Date: 30 May 1996 01:47:33

From: "Dr. Ernesto Kahan"  ekahan@post.tau.ac.il 


Dear friends:
If we take into consideration all the obstacles and critics,
in a retrospective vision, what the fragil government of 
Israel and the Palestinians of the PLO did for the peace 
process was quite a miracle. Now it is clear that under the results  
of the elections and the oposition of the extremists in Israel and in 
Arab countries, the peace process will not be completed in the near 
future. For many of us it will be much easier now to enjoy the 
camp of the perfectionists and to criticize. I remember the famous 
poet Alfonsina Storni : " You want me pure and virgin...I am a woman" 
I am sorry about the present results which are showing the increase 
in popularity of the ideology of the intolerance, chauvinism, and 
obscurantism. The terror installed a tramp a too many were traped on it.

Do not worry about our group in the Israeli IPPNW, we are immunized 
against irrationality and we will continue fighting for peace, 
health and justice.
Ernesto 

.
<hr>290/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-212</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B016-13</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108190126 text/html 3053
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:00:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2895
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ledwidge@psr.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: 5/28 News Alert: CTBT Talks
Date: 30 May 1996 22:39:08

Content-type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

PHYSICIANS GROUP CALLS ON NEGOTIATORS TO SUPPORT CHAIRMAN'S 
COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY TEXT

For Immediate Release: May 28, 1996 
Contact:  Daryl Kimball (202.898.0150)

(Geneva) -- Today, a spokesman for the nuclear disarmament group, 
Physicians for Social Responsibility (PSR) called on government 
representatives at the Conference on Disarmament to support the latest 
comprehensive test ban treaty text submitted this week by Ambassador
Jaap Ramamker, Chairman of the talks. PSR is the U.S. affiliate of the 
International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, recipient of 
the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize.

"All states must intensify their efforts to meet the June 28 deadline to 
complete a truly Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT)," urged Daryl 
imball, Associate Director for Policy of Physicians for Social 
Responsibility. 

"A clear majority of delegations wish to move forward to a timely 
onclusion of this historic and vitally important Treaty," said Kimball. 
"No state should attempt to stand in the way of a CTBT at this stage. 
History will be a harsh judge of governments that might spoil Chairman
Ramaker's effort to help conclude the test ban by the end of June," he 
added.

"Now the time for decisive action. If there is to be a test ban treaty by 
year's end, all parties must actively support the efforts of the Chairman 
of the negotiations and agree to some modifications of their national 
positions," Kimball advised.

"In the next few weeks, the nuclear powers must decide if they really 
want this Treaty and what they are willing to do to get the job done," 
said Kimball. "On a number of points, including the preamble and the 
sensitive issue of how and when to conduct inspections based on national 
intelligence systems, the U.S. and other nuclear states are going to have 
to bend," Kimball noted.

"China must also be prepared to follow-up on statements indicating 
flexibility' on its position in support of peaceful nuclear explosions 
(PNE) and other nations must ensure that the final CTBT text does not 
allow for a dangerous PNE loophole," Kimball added.

                                  -30-

Physicians for Social Responsibility is a U.S. non-governmental, 
membership-based organization formed in 1961 to end nuclear testing and 
eliminate nuclear weapons.
.
<hr>291/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-213</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B016-62</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108190212 text/html 1098
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:01:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 941
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ihelfand@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Re: Elections in Israel. The day after
Date: 03 Jun 1996 13:31:35 -0800 (PST)

From: Ira Helfand  ihelfand@igc.apc.org 
Subject: Re:  Elections in Israel. The day after

Ernesto,

I share your sorrow at the results of the election.  But
the struggle for peace is the most difficult battle,
as we all know.  That struggle will continue and with
the work of people like you and your colleagues in
IPPNW/Israel it will be successful in the end.

Keep up your great work.  

With my best,
Irax
x
.
<hr>292/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-214</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B016-119</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108190302 text/html 2012
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:02:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1854
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ekahan@post.tau.ac.il
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Auschwitz
Date: 05 Jun 1996 00:08:25

From: "Dr. Ernesto Kahan"  ekahan@post.tau.ac.il 


Dear Dr Hammel :
Taking into consideration the importance of the subject and the 
problems we had in previous messages in relation with disinformations 
and wrong e-mail addreses,I propose the following:

1. to adopt the text wrote by Dr Forrow as a unified model for the 
protest.


On Fri, 24 May 1996, Lachlan Forrow wrote:

> 
> To Whom It May Concern:
> 
> I was astounded and horrified to learn that a shopping mall is under
> construction just 30 yards from the site where 1 million Jews and 600,000
> non-Jews were murdered.  This is an outrage to the memory of those who
> died, and an insult to the moral conscience of humanity today.  It is my
> understanding that it is also a direct violation of international law,
> including obligations of the state of Poland under the 1972 UN Convention
> on the Protection of World Cultural and National Heritage.
> 
> Whatever is necessary to halt this construction permanently must be done
> immediately.
> 
> Lachlan Forrow, MD
> Assistant Professor of Medicine
> Division of Medical Ethics
> Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Hospital
> 
2. PLEASE  HELP IN GIVING US A CORRECT E- MAIL ADDRESS FOR THE 
   MESSAGE 
Thank you for the collaboration.

DR Ernesto Kahan 
Head Epidemiology
Institute for Occupational Health
Tel Aviv University
Tel Aviv
Israel
.
<hr>293/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-215</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B016-172</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108190356 text/html 3018
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:03:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2860
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: cnd@gn.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: CND respond to china test
Date: Mon, 10 Jun 1996 11:02:25 +0100 (BST)

From: cnd (The CND staff team)

Saturday 8 June 1996Chinese Nuclear Test condemned by CND

China 's latest nuclear test smacks of hypocrisy and cynism coming ljust a
few days 
after they apparently agreed to sign up to a fully comprehensive nuclear
test ban 
treaty, says the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND).With the deadline for 
agreement of a worldwide ban on nuclear testing coming up on 28 June this
latest 
test by China will send shockwaves through the conference chamber. At a very 
delicate stage in the negotiations such a test will only complicate matters
further and 
cast doubt on the commitment made recently by China to end it's nuclear testing 
programme.

CND urges all delegates at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva to 
thoroughly condemn this latest test by China but not to lose their resolve
to agree to 
end all nuclear testing by the June deadline.

CND Chair Janet Bloomfield said:"This latest test by China will leave many
people 
angry and confused over why yet another nuclear test has been carried out.
China is 
conducting these tests to increase it's nuclear arsenal against all it's
international 
arms control obligations. This test and any others will only serve to
further isolate 
China as a pariah nation within the international community. China should
not be 
conducting any nuclear tests, it should be true to its word , practice what
it preaches, 
stop nuclear testing and  stop improving and increasing it's nuclear arsenal
now."

A briefing paper from CND published earlier this month states that China's
current 
testing programme involves warheads for two new missile systems, one for 
deployment in the late 1990s, and another for around 2010.  China is also 
developing a new sea-launched missile (JL-2) for deployment on its second 
generation strategic nuclear-powered submarine. ( email requests welcome)

The following CND spokespeople will be available for comment:

William Peden
(Campaigns Officer) 0171-700 4524 (direct line)
Janet Bloomfield - CND Chair (can be contacted through William Peden)

CHINA INTENDS TO CARRY OUT ONE MORE NUCLEAR TEST BEFORE 
SEPTEMBER 1996.	
                                  
Ian Cleary - Membership and Fundraising Development Worker

The CND staff team (cnd@gn.apc.org)
162 Holloway Road
LONDON
N7 8DQ
tel: (uk)171 700 2393
fax: (uk)171 700 2357

.
<hr>294/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-216</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B017-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108190443 text/html 1123
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:04:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 966
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: NVMPSECR@antenna.nl
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Social program Worchester
Date: 12 Jun 1996 04:53:25

Dear Campaignreaders,

It seems there will be no social program after the IPPNW-
worldcongres in Worchester. Because only visiting the congres is quite
expensive, from our country several members also want to take a short
holiday afterwards. My question is: are there more visitors of the
congres that
want to spend some time together once the congres is finished, and do
some sightseings ?
If so, please react.

Kind regards,

Hans van Iterson| NVMP Secretariaat
.
<hr>295/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-217</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B017-104</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108190533 text/html 4847
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:04:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4689
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: cnd@gn.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Trident costs attacked by 'think tank'
Date: Fri, 14 Jun 1996 16:26:19 +0100 (BST)

From: cnd (The CND staff team)
Subject: Trident costs attacked by 'think tank'

FAO: DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

for immediate release 14 June 1996

Think Tank report attacks costs of Trident


	An influential think-tank has published a report calling for a radical=20
reassessment of the costs of maintaining "an increasingly irrelevant
separate British=20
nuclear deterrent".

	The publication of 'About Turn, Forward March with Europe' by the Institute=
=20
for Public Policy Research coincides with the release by CND of new figures=
=20
showing that the annual running cost of Britain's nuclear forces remains as
high as=20
=A31.7 billion (see Defence Briefing below).

	The figures from CND give - for the first time - a complete break-down of=
 this=20
year's costs of the UK's nuclear weapons programme, including the running
costs of=20
Trident, the cost of decommissioning and storing Polaris, and the
transportation of=20
nuclear weapons.

	Sir Ronald Mason, the Ministry of Defence's former Chief Scientific=
 Adviser,=20
warned last year that the total cost of Trident could be as much as =A350
billion.  CND=20
estimates put the figure at over =A333 billion.

	CND Chair Janet Bloomfield said that the Labour-leaning think tank's report=
=20
reflected growing concern amongst the Labour leadership about the true costs=
 of=20
Britain's 'independent deterrent':

	"This report could help provide a future Labour Government with a=20
way-out of the financial quagmire that Trident represents.
	"It is increasingly difficult to imagine a Gordon Brown Treasury=20
swallowing the budgetary implications of a separate British nuclear=20
weapons programme.
	"There is little doubt that increased European cooperation in defence=20
and security matters will bring financial dividends.  =09
	"However, this should not tempt the Labour Party down the=20
dangerous path of the 'Eurobomb' recently proposed by the European=20
Parliament's Common Foreign and Security Policy Committee."

DEFENCE BRIEFING --- DEFENCE BRIEFING --- DEFENCE BRIEFING

THE COSTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM'S NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAMME

	The Government has stated that "7.2 per cent of the 1993/94 defence budget=
=20
was spent on maintaining and operating British nuclear forces"1. The UK=
 Defence=20
Budget in 1993-94 was =A323,450 million, which makes the amount spent on=
 nuclear=20
weapons =A31,688 million.
	Below is CND's estimate of how this breakdown occurs based on past=20
answers to parliamentary questions. This is not the total cost as it does
not cover,=20
for example, the operating costs of four hunter-killer submarines to guard
the Trident=20
fleet, or the costs of Commachio Company (Royal Marines who provide the=
 guard=20
force for Navy nuclear weapons).

UK NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAMME - THE COST
o Running costs of Trident                                      =A3  200 000=
 000
o Transportation of nuclear weapons                        =A3    1 000 000
o Running Cost of One Squadron Tornado
  GR 1 Aircraft =3D =A3 71 000 000
	(total of six squadrons operational -=20
	four in Germany (RAF Bruggen) and=20
	two in UK (RAF Marham and Lossiemouth)   =A3  284 000 000
o Annual Operating Costs RAF Marham                    =A3   47 100 000
o Annual Operating Costs RAF Bruggen                   =A3   90 000 000
o Annual Operating Costs of WE-177=20
  Nuclear Bomb                                                        =A3  =
 20
000 000
o Annual Operating Costs Atomic
  Weapons Establishment, Aldermaston                  =A3  784 000 000
o Annual Running Costs of the Nuclear
  Accident Response Organisation (NARO)             =A3      300 000
o Decommissioning and Storage of Polaris              =A3   60 000 000
o Proportion of Annual Operating Costs of
  Clyde Submarine Base, Faslane and Coulport       =A3  200 000 000
  TOTAL                                                                  =A3=
1
686 400 000
  Official Report, 3 February 1995

                                 =20
Ian Cleary - Membership and Fundraising Development Worker

The CND staff team (cnd@gn.apc.org)
162 Holloway Road
LONDON
N7 8DQ
tel: (uk)171 700 2393
fax: (uk)171 700 2357

.
<hr>296/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-218</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B017-155</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108190625 text/html 3130
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:05:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2972
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: cnd@gn.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: CND DEMONSTRATION - 'Give Trident the Boot'
Date: Fri, 14 Jun 1996 16:26:26 +0100 (BST)

From: cnd (The CND staff team)
Subject: CND DEMONSTRATION - 'Give Trident the Boot'

=20
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, FRIDAY 14 JUNE 1996
England v Scotland showdown goes ballistic
	There will be a mass demonstration at the gates of the Government's Trident=
=20
nuclear submarine base at Faslane near Glasgow tomorrow, Saturday 15 June,=
=20
including a blockade of the base and cruises by protest boats on the loch
where a=20
Trident submarine is expected to be berthed.
	CND says that the demonstration - on the same day as the England v=20
Scotland Euro 96 match - will be the biggest protest at Faslane for 10
years. One of=20
the reasons for the expected high turnout is the increasing resentment
against the=20
perceived 'dumping' of nuclear weapons in Scotland by the English.
	Ten nuclear warheads - with a destructive firepower equivalent to 60 =20
hiroshimas - are being unloaded at Coulport near Faslane over the weekend,=
 and=20
past polls have shown that 70% of Scots are opposed to the continued=
 deployment=20
of Trident.
	The protest will also feature a demonstration against last week's nuclear=
 test=20
by China, which is planning to deploy at least two new nuclear weapons
systems as=20
a result of this and future tests.
	Building on the day's Euro 96 theme protesters will hold up referee's red=
=20
cards and will be displaying a banner showing a Scottish footballer 'giving
Trident=20
the boot' out of Scotland..
	CND says that 59% of people throughout the UK support its current proposal=
=20
for a global treaty to eliminate nuclear weapons with a fixed timetable. The
current=20
annual running cost of the UK's nuclear forces is =A31.,700 million, with=
 Trident=20
estimated to cost over =A333,000 million over it's 30 year lifetime.
ENDSo=09
The day's timetable:
10 am - Trident recycling machine starts up at Helensburgh Pier
11 am - Protest boats set sail for Faslane
12.30pm - Mass rally at Faslane Peace Camp
1pm - March to the North Gate of Faslane with banners etc
1.30pm - blockade
For full details of the day's events ring John Ainslie (demonstration=20
organiser) or Ediie Goncalves (CND Press Officer) on 0141-423 1222 (Friday=
=20
only).
OR ON SATURDAY 15 JUNE ON 0585 347080 or 0836 597569.

                                 =20
Ian Cleary - Membership and Fundraising Development Worker

The CND staff team (cnd@gn.apc.org)
162 Holloway Road
LONDON
N7 8DQ
tel: (uk)171 700 2393
fax: (uk)171 700 2357

.
<hr>297/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-219</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B017-211</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108190730 text/html 39379
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:06:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 39220
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: foesydney@peg.pegasus.oz.au
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Re: News From Oz by John Hallam
Date: 14 Jun 1996 12:27:02 +1000

From:  foesydney 

To: Antinuke Activists From: John Hallam foesydney@peg.apc.org
fax(61)(2) 283-2005.

re:
URANIUM MINING
NUCLEAR TESTING

URANIUM MINING
On 24thMay'96, people around Australia demonstrated against the
plans of the conservative Howard government to open more uranium
mines.

In Sydney, at 5pm, between 500 and 800 people met outside Sydney
Town Hall, under the auspices of the Stop Uranium Mining
Coalition. (SUM) They were addressed by Senator Dee Margetts of
the W.A. Greens, and speakers from SUM, Trade Union, and Student
groups.  They then marched down from the town hall, down George
Street, to the headquarters of ERA (Energy Resources of
Australia), where they were addressed by Senator Bruce Childs of
the Labour Party, George Adjitjondro from Indonesia,  and John
Hallam from friends of the Earth.

Similar gatherings took place in Melbourne, where as many as 1500
people marched after being addressed by Democrat Senator Meg Lees,
in Brisbane, in Adelaide, in Perth, and in Darwin where a petition
was presented to the Minister for mines.  The demonstrations were
marginalised in print media reporting, but obtained fairly good
electronic media coverage - a common pattern in Australia.

Since then things have continued to be busy on the uranium and
nuclear front.

The Aboriginal Traditional Owners of the Jabiluka uranium deposit
dropped a bombshell on government plans to mine at Jabiluka by
getting the Northern Land Council to write to the Minister for the
Environment to the effect that they oppose the project. Senator
Robert Hill,  Minister for the Environment, had previously stated
that aboriginal approval would be essential for the project to
proceed.  According to the NLC letter:

"....The Land Council has met extensively over the last few weeks
with relevant Aboriginal people to discuss the Jabiluka project
generally and in particular, ERA's proposed changes to the
Jabiluka project . Those proposals are set out in a document of
four volumes entitled 'Jabiluka-2 Project Scope Outline' dated
March 1996, which has been provided by ERA to the NLC."

'The Aboriginal groups are not prepared to agree to any change to
the original proposal to mine upon which is based the 1982 mining
agreement under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory)
Act 1976 between Pancontinental Mining Limited, Getty Oil
Development Company Limited, and the Northern Land Council. The
Aboriginal groups are opposed to ERA's proposals for changes to
mining and milling at Jabiluka and in particular, the proposal to
mill Jabiluka ore at the existing Ranger mill. Indeed, they do not
want the Jabiluka mine to proceed at all."

"....I note that the original environmental impact statement for
the Jabiluka project was prepared in 1979.  The passage of
seventeen years clearly renders that statement inadequate as a
basis for making proper decisions, and request that you assist in
ensuring that an up-to-date environmental and social impact
statements are prepared before any mining is permitted to proceed.
Any such assessments will be materially flawed  in not
meaningless, if not undertaken independently and by processes
acceptable to all parties..."

There are number of important points here. The fact is that  a
proposal for a project, then to be undertaken by Pancontinental
Mining and Getty Oil, was approved in 1979, and an agreement
arrived at under some pressure, between the Northern Land Council
and Pancon in 1982.  The proposal agreed to was however, so
different from the proposal that Energy Resources of Australia
wants to pursue, that it is in effect a completely different
proposal.

The Traditional Owners of  Jabiluka, via the NLC, have let it be
known that they neither want to consider a new proposal, nor do
they want to consider renegotiating the old 1982 proposal.  This
means that the entire Jabiluka proposal has been effectively
thrown into a legal morass. (See appended letter to Senators Hill
and Parer from FOE on Jabiluka Project Scoping, where the wishes
of the Jabiluka T.O.'s are referred to, and the Orebody No3 Press
release)

In related developments, the Senate Select Committee on Uranium
mining and Milling has now held preliminary meetings and has
called for submissions, by July 5th.  Hearings will take place
later in the year, possibly in September/October.  Clearly, the
social impact of uranium mining, the consideration that has driven
the Jabiluka TO's to oppose any new uranium project, will be a
crucial consideration at the Senate inquiry, along with the
questions of local and regional environmental impact,  and
bilateral safeguards in the Senate inquiry's terms of reference.

NUCLEAR TESTING
The Nuclear testing issue was again placed on the Australian
agenda by the Chinese test of 8/6/96. Prior to the actual test, a
vigil had already taken place in front of the Chinese consulate on
World Environment Day, in the knowledge that a test could be
imminent, organised by the Wilderness Society's 'Endangered Tibet'
Campaign, Friends of the Earth, and Amnesty.

The test itself saw a response on Sunday 9/6 in front of the
Consulate by Greenpeace, and again on 10/6 (just in case they
didn't get the message) by the Stop uranium mining Coalition and
the Wilderness Society Endangered Tibet campaign and the
Australia-Tibet Council. The Chinese consulate in Sydney is
getting to be a popular spot for demonstrations!  (See enclosed
press release 'Stop Chinese Nuclear Testing' 10/6/96' and letter
re Chinese testing to Alexander Downer)

The Government responded to its credit, by carpeting the Chinese
ambassador almost immediately, and on Monday10/6, by making a
formal protest in Beijing.  A phonecall to the Foreign Minister
Alexander Downers advisers suggested that a consensus of sorts has
arisen as par as Chinese testing is concerned: Both the
conservative government, and the peace and environment movements
see the current program of testing on the eve f the signature of a
CTBT as entirely counterproductive, and have called on Beijing to
desist immediately and to sign a genuine zero-threshold CTBT
immediately without provision for PNE's. The Downer ministerial
office opined to me that a CTBT that provided for PNE's would not
be worth having.

The question is however, just what they will do about the planned
US hydronuclear testing program. If US senators can write to Mr
Clinton asking him to cancel that program so, it seems, should
Australia.

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH PRESS RELEASE 16/5/96

OREBODY-3 APPROVAL AT RANGER URANIUM MINE 'PREMATURE' SAYS F.O.E.

Friends of the Earth have called on the Federal and NT Governments
to put the approval and development of Orebody-3 at the Ranger
uranium mine on hold until the Senate Select Committee on uranium,
recently set up in the Senate as an initiative of the W.A. Greens,
and the environmental review process for the Jabiluka uranium
project are complete. It was announced yesterday by the Northern
Territory Minister of Mines and Energy Mike Read, that his
department has granted approval for Energy resources of Australia
to mine Orebody 3, within the existing Ranger project area.

 According to FOE uranium spokesperson John Hallam:  'Approval for
Orebody Three at this point by the NTDME is highly premature. We
are about to enter two parallel processes of environmental
assessment which will have to consider the cumulative impacts of
all uranium mining operations for the whole region, namely the
formal environmental impact assessment for the development of the
Jabiluka orebody,  under the procedures of the 'Environment
Protection-Impact of Proposals' Act, and the recently created
Senate Select Committee on Uranium Mining. The Senate Select
Committee will be looking at all aspects of the nuclear fuel
cycle, but will be concentrating especially on the impacts of
mining in the Kakadu National Park. As such, it will have to
consider the cumulative impacts of all uranium mining activities,
including not only the new Jabiluka project, but Orebody-3.'
'While it is true that Orebody-three was included in the original
environmental assessment done under the Ranger Inquiry of 1975-77,
the fact is that Orebody-3 does have some special problems,
notably that it is directly under Djalkmara billabong, and will
therefore have to be de-watered extensively. This will require the
removal of Djalkmara Billabong. According to an article by Dr.
K.A. Bishop in the Australian Journal of Ecology 1995,20, 81-107,
Djalkmara Billabong plays a crucial role in providing recruits for
upstream  dry-season refuges, a key ecological process for fish
within this seasonally-flowing creek.'

'In fact, it seems that the timing of the current approval may
have been designed to avoid precisely the scrutiny that the Senate
inquiry and the environmental impact assessment procedures will
focus on it.'

ERA and the NTDME should not be allowed to get  away with this
sleight-of-hand. Orebody-3 should be delayed until the Senate
Select Committee on uranium mining has been allowed to assess it
in the light of the data revealed by the formal environmental
assessment for the Jabiluka proposal' Mr Hallam  concluded.

Friends of the Earth is currently helping to organise a national
day of action against uranium mining on 24th of May, as part of
the Stop Uranium Mining Coalition.   Anti-uranium actions are
scheduled around Australia on that day.

The Stop Uranium Mining Coalition includes Friends of the Earth,
the Wilderness Society, People for Nuclear Disarmament, The
Anti-Bases Coalition, Paddlers for Peace, Sydney Peace Squadron,
the Greens,  Pax Christi, The Australian Conservation Foundation,
The National Union of Students (NSW and National) Sydney
University SRC, the NSW Fire Fighters, the Maritime Workers Union,
the Firefighters Union, The Wayside Chapel, Resistance, and
Socialist Worker.

Contact:  John Hallam, Uranium Campaigner Friends of the Earth
Sydney 283-2004  m(015)202060  ah351-7578,  H810-2598.

STOP CHINESE NUCLEAR TESTING DEMONSTRATION MON 10/6/96.

The Stop Uranium mining group, a coalition consisting of Friends
of the Earth, The Wilderness Society, The greens, People for
Nuclear Disarmament, Resistance, the ISO, Pax Christi, The
National Union of Students, and a large number of other groups,
has condemned yesterdays Chinese test, and will be holding a
protest outside the Chinese Consulate at 539 Elizabeth St Surrey
Hills at 4pm today (Monday 10th.)

According to FOE Sydney Nuclear Campaigner John Hallam:  'The test
yesterday was expected for some time. Nonetheless, right up till
1pm yesterday, we had hoped the Chinese might come to their senses
and desist.  There were indications that the Chinese were being
more accommodating in the negotiations for a comprehensive
test-ban treaty, and not insisting on the right to conduct
so-called TpeacefulU nuclear explosions.  Yesterdays test brings
the Chinese testing total to 44 known tests, one more than the UK.
This means that the Chinese are finally up with what they
doubtless regard as the 'big boys' of the nuclear club, though
they are of course nowhere near the 1030 tests carried out by the
US, the 715 carried out by the  erstwhile USSR, or the 196 carried
out by France.

Nonetheless, China is now the only nation with an active testing
program, and as such this represents a  threat to the signing of a
true zero-threshold  CTBT planned for any time now.  Equally much
of a threat to the real intent of the treaty however, is the
extensive testing in cyberspace that will be done by the US on the
unprecedentedly large and fast 'Paragon' supercomputer at Los
Alamos, the French simulations to be done under the PALEN program,
and similar Russian programs. These virtual tests, in combination
with hydronuclear testing, allow the real intent of the CTBT - the
elimination of warhead development- to be evaded.

We call upon the Australian government to protest in the strongest
terms to the Chinese, but to let France and the US know also that
virtual and hydronuclear test programs done under the excuse of
'stockpile maintenance' are contrary to the spirit  of the CTBT.'

Mr Hallam can be contacted for comment on:  (02)283-2004,
m015-202060 ah351-7578, h810-2598.

ATTN: ALEXANDER DOWNER
RE: CHINESE NUCLEAR TESTING
FROM: JOHN HALLAM.

Dear Mr Downer:  I am writing to you as organiser of the recent
demonstration against nuclear testing outside the Chinese
Consulate in Sydney.

As you are probably aware, a vigil and a demonstration against
nuclear testing and  the destruction of the Tibetan environment
took place on Tuesday 4/ Wednesday 5th June, and then again on
Monday 10/6 in response to the Chinese test at Lop Nor on Saturday
8/6.

The vigil on 4/5 June was organised by the Wilderness Society
(TWS) with the help of Friends of the Earth (FOE) and the Stop
Uranium Mining Coalition,(SUM). The one on Mon10th in response to
the actual test was organised by FOE and the SUM coalition with
the support of TWS.  Another demonstration in response to the same
test was held on Sunday 9/6 by Greenpeace.

In my statements to media on 10/6 outside the Consulate, I was for
once in a position to congratulate the government. It was
gratifying to see that  you summoned the Chinese ambassador
immediately and conveyed your displeasure.

I understand that you have told the Chinese government that:
testing in the light of world reaction to French nuclear testing
last year, and in the crucial leadup time before the conclusion of
a comprehensive test-ban treaty is insensitive in the extreme;
that a 45th Chinese test would be unacceptable; and that a strong,
zero- threshold CTBT, without provisions for so-called 'peaceful'
nuclear explosions (PNEs) is essential.

FOE and other antinuclear organisations certainly agree with this
perspective.  However, we would point out that while Chinese (and
French) testing is unacceptable, and while it is absolutely
necessary for a CTBT not to contain loopholes allowing PNEUs,
there are other ways in which nuclear warhead development can and
will continue even after the signature of a CTBT.

The possibility of substantial programs of 'hydronuclear' and
virtual testing taking place in the US and Russia and
sophisticated programs of virtual testing (as well as certain
aspects of the laser facility operating near Bordeaux in France
and similar facilities such as the projected NIF facility in the
US) enable warhead development and optimisation to take place. It
is noteworthy that an early Indonesian version of the CTBT text
prohibited testing in all environments including in cyberspace.
The Indonesian text failed I understand, due to opposition from
the weapons powers and because of concerns over the practicality
of enforcement.

Our concern in demonstrating outside the Chinese consulate in
Sydney on Monday was to make it clear to the Chinese government
that testing, any testing, by any country - France or China, or
for that matter the US or Russia - is absolutely unacceptable. It
is gratifying to see that your government was able to make this
clear to China.

I would like to suggest however, that you should express concern
also over US hydronuclear and virtual testing, and over similar
activities in France and Russia. In this matter, it is important
to note that when a group of 21 congresspeople wrote to President
Clinton asking him to strongly protest the Chinese test, they also
asked him to immediately cancel US hydronuclear tests planned at
the Nevada test site on June18th.

Clearly, differences will exist between us over the matter of
uranium mining and export. FOE strongly believes that any
participation in the nuclear fuel cycle contributes to the danger
of nuclear proliferation by increasing the quantity of fissionable
material in circulation, and increasing the chances of
weapons-significant quantities going astray.   We will continue to
oppose the mining of uranium, and seek to persuade you to do so
too.  However, it is pleasing to see that in this matter, we seem
to be moving in a similar direction.

The signing of a strong, zero-threshold CTBT without loopholes for
PNEs will be a significant step toward a nuclear - weapons - free
world, as would the cessation of hydronuclear and virtual testing.


I look forward to further cooperation in this matter, Yours
Sincerely, John Hallam.  Nuclear Campaigner, F.O.E. Sydney

ATTN: SENATOR HILL, SENATOR PARER.

FROM: JOHN HALLAM
RE: URANIUM INQUIRY, CEPA.

Dear Senators Hill and Parer:  I am writing to you in connection
with the calls by the ACF, Wilderness Society,ECNT, and FOE
Melbourne for a public inquiry into the environmental impact of
uranium mining in the Kakadu National Park under section 11 of the
1974 Environment Protection - Impact of Proposals legislation.  I
also wish to make clear our absolute horror at recent reports that
your government is contemplating the dismantling of the
Commonwealth EPA, currently headed by Mr Barry Carbon.

1)CEPA The dismantlement of the Commonwealth EPA, at a saving of a
relatively miserable $20million, would render impossible the
adequate assessment of environmental impact statements for not
only uranium projects, but other projects that come under
Commonwealth jurisdiction, or that require Commonwealth
expenditure or approvals.  Unless the Office of the Supervising
Scientist, currently part of the EPA, were to continue under the
jurisdiction of some other department or were to revert to its
previous independent existence, the functions of that body would
cease also - a disaster for environmental protection and
monitoring that would make nonsense of your governments statements
that uranium mining would proceed only under  the most stringent
possible environmental safeguards and monitoring. FOE has argued
for years that the Office of the Supervising Scientist should
become responsible via its current integration with CEPA, for all
uranium mining activities nationwide as well as for the creation
and enforcement of all national nuclear regulation. I expressed
this view only recently in Canberra to your office and to Senator
Parer.  The abolition of CEPA is a move in precisely the opposite
direction.

In addition, CEPA is the only Commonwealth body that can be
responsible for national and international nuclear standards and
codes in Australia under the TEnvironment Protection - Nuclear
CodesU legislation passed by the previous Coalition government.
These include the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the
Mining and Milling of Radioactive ores, the Code of Practice and
Guidelines for the Disposal of Radioactive Waste by Shallow Land
Burial, and codes of practice for disposal of uranium tailings and
for the transport of radioactive materials.  These codes are based
in part on international standards to which Australia is a party.


CEPA provides an essential environmental safeguard, and should not
only be retained but expanded and improved. Your government has
stated that it sees the protection of the environment as a
priority. If this is truly so it must remain so whatever the
prospects for proceeds from the partial privatisation of Telstra.


2) URANIUM INQUIRY I note that you have already said in your
public statements that you do not wish for an inquiry that
canvasses the broader issues involved with uranium mining in
general, and that you believe that the Ranger inquiry of 1975-77
has already examined the issues involved.

However, I believe that a   strong case  exists for a public
inquiry, both into the broader issues raised by uranium mining,
and into the multiple site-specific environmental issues raised by
the possibility of new mines in Kakadu.

In meetings recently in Canberra with Senator Parer  and with your
own office, I emphasised that my own past experience of the last
20 years with environmental impact assessment procedure under the
1974 Act has been less than satisfactory.  Areas in which I
indicated there are problems include the treatment of the 'no
project' option, which is normally dismissed in a few contemptuous
lines, lack of adequate feasibility and economic analyses, and the
absence of a proper 'cost-benefit' approach in general, a lack
which is all the more surprising as the 1974 Act itself is clearly
framed in a manner that emphasises that the 'no project' option
must be taken seriously, and that the process itself is not merely
one of deciding what safeguards may be Tadded onU to a project for
which a go-ahead is already predetermined, but is one of
determining whether or not the project or projects under
consideration should proceed at all.  All too often, it seems to
me that the environmental impact assessment procedure has been
used as a kind of rubber-stamp to legitimatise decisions for a
project go- ahead that have been taken elsewhere. This should not
happen and is contrary to the spirit and intent of the 1974
legislation.

A public inquiry is certainly the best way to get around this
problem . A public inquiry would provide an independent assessment
of the environmental impact of multiple uranium mining projects in
the Kakadu area, without being totally dependent for its input on
company or company consultant-prepared EISUs. In addition, a
public inquiry will be able to provide an unbiased (or less
biased) assessment of the actual benefit of going ahead with any
of the proposed projects in the Kakadu area.This process would
best facilitate your stated goal of ensuring that the Kakadu
region receives the highest degree of environmental protection.  A
public inquiry will be able to deal with more than one project at
a time, so that the combined impact of Ranger, Jabiluka, and
Koongarra may be considered at once in an integrated manner,
whereas a simple EIS is unable to achieve this as each project is
considered separately.

You argue that the Ranger inquiry of 1975-77 has already covered
the relevant issues.  However, the Ranger inquiry took place
nearly 20 years ago, and while it was in some respects a model
environmental inquiry,  its conclusions for a Jabiluka or
Koongarra project today are certainly dated. It is worth noting
however, that the Ranger inquiry recommended (a) that the
Koongarra project should not proceed, and (b) that no more than
one uranium project should operate at any one time - a policy it
called 'sequential development', which was in effect a one-mine
policy. (c) That no central milling of uranium should occur. The
development of Jabiluka contravenes both those recommendations.

Since the time of the Ranger inquiry, some 15 years of operating
experience has been accumulated with uranium mining in Kakadu, and
a number of problems have arisen which were not anticipated by it.
These include problems with water management and long - terms
tailings storage which are documented in detail in successive
annual reports of the Office of the Supervising  Scientist (OSS),
created as one of the recommendations of the Ranger inquiry.

FOE has in addition expressed to Senator Parer and to your office
our observation that the current regulatory and monitoring
arrangements in the NT, in which the OSS monitors and sets
standards, while the NTDME has the power to enforce environmental
requirements are a recipe for administrative confusion.
Clarification of, and public confidence in, the monitoring and
regulatory mechanisms is particularly vital in this time  of new
mining proposals and a changing series of working arrangements
between the relevant agencies. The operation of these regulatory
arrangements would be a fit subject for consideration by a Kakadu
uranium environmental inquiry under Section11.

Finally, I note that calls have been made for the current Senate
inquiry on Low Level Radioactive Waste to continue through the
current Senate as an inquiry into uranium mining.  This is no
reason not to hold a Section11 inquiry.  There is a strong need
for an inquiry into the very principle of the expansion of uranium
mining in this country, especially in view of the fact that the
environmental community as a whole as well as much of the
Australian public would clearly rather see uranium mining cease
completely.  A Senate Inquiry, if it took place should in our
view, encompass the broadest considerations relating to uranium
mining. As such, it would fulfil a different function from a more
narrowly-focused inquiry under Section-11 of the 1974 Act.

Both a section-11 inquiry and a broader  Senate inquiry are in our
opinion, an absolute necessity in view of your governments plans,
and we call on you to reconsider your attitude in this matter.
Current proposals to abolish CEPA make the necessity for an
inquiry even more pressing.

Yours Sincerely, John R. Hallam.  Uranium Campaigner, Friends of
the Earth Sydney.  cc Dr. Carmen Lawrence Senator Faulkner Senator
Meg Lees Senator Cheryl Kernot Senator Dee Margetts Barry Carbon
Stewart Needham




ATTN SENATOR ROBERT HILL
SENATOR WARWICK PARER
cc Barry Carbon, CEPA.  Northern Land  Council.  Jabiluka assn.

FROM: JOHN HALLAM, F.O.E. SYDNEY.
RE: JABILUKA URANIUM PROJECT SCOPING.

Dear Senators Hill and Parer:  I am writing to you to articulate
concerns FOE and others have over the environmental impact
assessment scoping process for the Jabiluka project. It is
essential that there be full public participation in the scoping
process, especially in the light of what appears to be firm
opposition by the traditional owners to any go-ahead for that
project, as well as concerns arising out of nearly 20 years
experience of commenting on uranium projects under EPIP
procedures.

1)Scoping Process Full public participation in the scoping
process, whereby the public gets to comment on what matters are in
fact covered by the environmental impact assessment process is
common, and is not incompatible with guidelines that are already
set out in the administrative procedures to the EPIP legislation.
For example, US EIA practice involves a scoping exercise in which
scoping hearings may be held, or in which scoping may take place
as a result of comments in response to a 'Notice of Intent' (NOI)
to prepare an EIS. Scoping is part of the formal EIA process in
W.A., where the public is also able to appeal to the Minister
against the level of assessment. The Commonwealth EPA has I
understand, proposed the introduction of public scoping into the
EPIP process. I also understand from conversations with your
(Senator Hills) staff, that there will in fact, be a public
scoping process, and urge that this be adhered to.

2)Concerns arising out of Comment Experience Thus far, I have
commented for FOE on the original Jabiluka project, on the
Koongarra project, on the Yeelirrie project, on the Beverley
project, the Honeymoon project, the Ben Lomond project, and the
Olympic Dam (Roxby Downs) project.  The experience has been a
dispiriting one, as it seems that the spirit and intent of the Act
and its administrative procedures have been steadily eroded. A
reading of the Administrative procedures of the Act would lead one
to expect detailed information on cost-benefit analysis of uranium
projects, a full analysis of the 'no action' alternative, and the
production of detailed feasibility studies. This information,
desirable whatever the legal niceties of the Act, has been notably
lacking in uranium EISUs.

This observation applies particularly to sections 2.2 of the
administrative procedures, section 3.1.2., and section 4.1 which
specify the information required by procedures,  the matters to be
taken into account by an EIS, and the contents of  environmental
impact statements. These are all matters that properly fall within
the province of scoping.

These sections of the Act, while they relate to three separate
levels of review - the consideration by the Minister for the need
for an EIS or PER,(2.2) the consideration by the Minister of the
level of assessment(3.1.2.) and the information to be contained in
an EIS(4.1 b,f,i) - clearly demonstrate that a major priority of
the Act is to evaluate not only secondary matters such as the
environmental safeguards to be applied to a project, but is above
all to evaluate whether indeed any given project should take place
at all. Yet evaluation of whether a given project should or should
not proceed, especially important in the case of controversial
projects such as uranium mines (or any other controversial
projects) has been notably absent from both draft and final EISUs
for uranium projects.

Indeed, If I were to present a 'wish list' in regard to scoping,
it would be simply that the existing administrative procedures be
adhered to both as to their spirit and letter.  This would be
particularly so with regard to the overall policy question as to
whether a project should in fact proceed - that is whether the
project under contemplation is or is not in the national
interest.

Both the EPIP Act and the administrative procedures are clearly
designed with this as the most important question to be dealt with
in any environmental assessment. Yet actual uranium project EIS's
do not reflect this emphasis at all, and rather seem to be
prepared on the assumption that a project go-ahead is inevitable,
and that the only matters open for discussion are say, the colour
of the site boundary fence, or at best the nature of the tailings
disposal method. In practice, it is likely to be assumed that this
too, is already decided.  The practice to date has been even in
these secondary matters, not so much to take public concerns into
account in actually planning the project so that the final EIS
represents a project plan that is in some sense the result of
public input - (which I take to be the intent of the EPIP Act )-
but rather to produce a final EIS which simply tells the benighted
and ignorant public that it has got everything wrong, in which
case one wonders what was the point of the exercise in the first
place.

Let us look in more detail at the matter of the overall benefit or
otherwise of the project.

According to Section 2.2(a) of the Administrative procedures, "For
the purposes of paragraph2.1, the information required by these
procedures shall, to the extent appropriate in the circumstances
of the case, be information- (a)summarising any preliminary
planning, consideration, or work undertaken in relation to the
proposed action and in particular, describing any feasible and
prudent alternative to the proposed action" While according to
section 4.1 of the administrative procedures, "To the extent
appropriate in the circumstances of the case, an environmental
impact statement shall- (a)State the objectives of the proposed
action (b)Analyse the need for the proposed action.  (c) Indicate
the consequences of not taking the proposed action
.....(f)examine any feasible and prudent alternative to the
proposed action.
....(i)outline the reasons for the choice of the proposed action."

 Other subsections of both 4.1 and 2.2 include information that
 would be absolutely necessary for achieving an overall
 cost/benefit analysis of the proposed action.

These sections of the administrative procedures have special
relevance to uranium projects, where the need for, and benefit of,
the project is hotly contested. They also have special relevance
where the traditional owners of the land on which the project
takes place have indicated their opposition to the project.

Yet in general, environmental impact statements have given most of
their consideration to matters such as the precise brand of
down-hole EM probe used for well-logging, rather than to any form
of cost-benefit analysis or national interest analysis of the
project as a whole.

Environmental impact statements, both draft and final, have tended
to deal with 4.1(b) (c) and (f), and 2.2(a) covering the need for
the proposed action, consequences of not taking it, and feasible
and prudent alternatives to it in a manner that is completely
unsatisfactory.

Thus, the original (1979) final EIS for the Jabiluka project, in
section 4.1 of the EIS, Talternatives consideredU notes different
mining procedures but pays no attention whatsoever to the
no-project alternative, though this was the most popular
alternative mentioned by commentators on the EIS - a deficiency
that was bought to the attention of the minister at the time by
FOE.  Similar tales could be told about every other uranium EIS.


While matters of environmental monitoring, mitigation, and
protection are crucial once a project go-ahead is given, the
question of whether it ought, all things considered, to be given
is or should be central to the process under EPIP, and it is clear
from the manner in which the administrative procedures are
formulated that this was so for the framers of this act.

3) Social Impacts Another matter which needs to be taken into
account under EPIP procedures as a matter of highest priority is
that of the social impact of uranium projects.  According to the
administrative procedures, 3.1.2.)(a) in determining the level of
assessment, the Minister must take into account of whether or not
the proposed action has "(i)a substantial environmental effect on
a community".  The Commonwealth EIA Review notes on p35 that:
"153. Impacts on people and their surroundings (particularly the
social and health aspects of environmental change) go beyond the
natural world to encompass human activity and quality of life.
These impacts may include changes in peoples lifestyles, their
cultural traditions and their community..."

The CEPA review goes on to say that environmental review should
nonetheless be limited to the interaction between the biophysical
and the social environments, a suggestion that seems to contradict
the original definition of 'environment' in the Act as 'all
aspects of the surroundings of Man, whether affecting him as an
individual or in his social groupings...' Be that as it may, FOE
thinks that social impact in its widest sense must be part of any
environmental review process.

This is particularly the case where Indigenous peoples and their
rights are concerned, and especially so  where development has
been foisted on local peoples whether they want it or not. In this
context, it is significant that the NLC has requested up-to-date
environmental and social impact statements be prepared by
independent processes acceptable to all parties.

Where, as in the case of the Jabiluka project, the traditional
owners of the land on which the project stands have made it clear
that they consent neither to the project as it is now envisaged
nor to the project envisaged in the 1982 agreement between
Pancontinental mining and the NLC, that lack of consent must be
taken into account.  In our view, it must be absolutely respected,
and  there must be no question of applying pressure on that
community, already subjected to more pressures than it should be,
to change its mind or to proceed under the 1982 agreement. You
have made it clear on a number of occasions that you will
absolutely respect the wishes of the Traditional Owners. If indeed
you wish to do so, then it is clear that the Jabiluka project
cannot proceed, and that the only result that can legitimately
come out of an honest EPIP process is an assessment that the
project should be terminated. 4.1(c) which requires that the EIS
'indicate the consequences of not taking the proposed action' of
the administrative procedures, is not only something that should
be examined in detail, but is indeed the only valid alternative,
given the expressed attitude of the Jabiluka Traditional Owners.

In Summary, we call on you:  (a)To ensure full public involvement
in the scoping procedure.  (b)To ensure that alternatives to the
proposed project including especially the no-project option are
taken seriously as the administrative procedures indicate that
they should be.  (c)Ensure that EPIP cover a full evaluation of
social impacts.  (d)Take the refusal of the Jabiluka TOUs as
decisive not only for the existing project alternative but for any
uranium mine whatsoever, and ensure absolutely that no pressure of
any kind is bought to bear on them to change their mind.

John Hallam Uranium Campaigner, F.O.E. Sydney.  cc Senator Tom
Wheelwright Senator Dee Margetts Senator Meg Lees Dr. Carmen
Lawrence M.P.

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH PRESS RELEASE 2/5/96 SENATE URANIUM INQUIRY
THE RIGHT MOVE SAYS F.O.E.

Green group Friends of the Earth today congratulated the Greens,
the Democrats, the Government and the Opposition on  decision to
hold a Senate inquiry into uranium mining, but emphasised that
this will in no way alter the opposition of FOE and the rest of
the green movement to uranium mining and participation in the
nuclear fuel cycle.

According to FOE uranium campaigner John Hallam, "The decision to
hold a full inquiry with broad terms of reference into all aspects
of uranium mining in Australia including the aspects of
proliferation and waste disposal as well as all aspects of uranium
mining within Australia itself is most welcome. F.O.E. has lobbied
the government and the opposition most strenuously in this matter
over the past weeks, and we indicated clearly to all parties that
we preferred the terms of reference suggested by the greens to the
much narrower Kakadu-oriented ones put forward by the ALP.  A
decision to increase the number of uranium mines in Australia,
especially a decision to rely on the free-market driven approach
advocated by the government has implications far beyond the Kakadu
region, important and precious as that region is, and disastrous
as more uranium mines in that region would be."

"There are potential uranium projects at Kintyre adjoining the
Rudall River National Park in W.A., at Yeelirrie in W.A., at
Honeymoon and Beverley in S.A.., and at Ben Lomond in Queensland,
and there are proposals for a major increase in the uranium output
of Roxby Downs which could have catastrophic implications for the
SA Mound Springs.  There is currently no national regulatory
framework for uranium mining, only a series of ad-hoc arrangements
which differ from state to state. All of these issues will need to
be addressed by the Senate Inquiry.  It will need to start by
focusing on the Jabiluka project in Kakadu as that is poised to
go, but then it must canvass these much broader issues as well as
site and project-specific issues."

"FOE expects that in the coming months, that we will have a
productive and hard-working relationship with the inquiry, and
that they will take seriously the proposition we have been arguing
for the last 20 years: That Australia should leave uranium in the
ground." Contact: John Hallam, (02)283-2004 M(015)202060
H(02)810-2598.

fax(61)(2)283-2005 e-mail foesydney@peg.apc.org


.
<hr>298/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-220</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B018-37</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108190833 text/html 39520
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:07:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 39361
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: foesydney@peg.pegasus.oz.au
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Re: News From Oz by John Hallam
Date: 14 Jun 1996 12:33:55 +1000

From:  foesydney 

/* Written 12:26 PM  Jun 14, 1996 by foesydney in peg:foe.oz */
/* ---------- "News from Oz by John Hallam" ---------- */
From:  foesydney 

To: Antinuke Activists From: John Hallam foesydney@peg.apc.org
fax(61)(2) 283-2005.

re:
URANIUM MINING
NUCLEAR TESTING

URANIUM MINING
On 24thMay'96, people around Australia demonstrated against the
plans of the conservative Howard government to open more uranium
mines.

In Sydney, at 5pm, between 500 and 800 people met outside Sydney
Town Hall, under the auspices of the Stop Uranium Mining
Coalition. (SUM) They were addressed by Senator Dee Margetts of
the W.A. Greens, and speakers from SUM, Trade Union, and Student
groups.  They then marched down from the town hall, down George
Street, to the headquarters of ERA (Energy Resources of
Australia), where they were addressed by Senator Bruce Childs of
the Labour Party, George Adjitjondro from Indonesia,  and John
Hallam from friends of the Earth.

Similar gatherings took place in Melbourne, where as many as 1500
people marched after being addressed by Democrat Senator Meg Lees,
in Brisbane, in Adelaide, in Perth, and in Darwin where a petition
was presented to the Minister for mines.  The demonstrations were
marginalised in print media reporting, but obtained fairly good
electronic media coverage - a common pattern in Australia.

Since then things have continued to be busy on the uranium and
nuclear front.

The Aboriginal Traditional Owners of the Jabiluka uranium deposit
dropped a bombshell on government plans to mine at Jabiluka by
getting the Northern Land Council to write to the Minister for the
Environment to the effect that they oppose the project. Senator
Robert Hill,  Minister for the Environment, had previously stated
that aboriginal approval would be essential for the project to
proceed.  According to the NLC letter:

"....The Land Council has met extensively over the last few weeks
with relevant Aboriginal people to discuss the Jabiluka project
generally and in particular, ERA's proposed changes to the
Jabiluka project . Those proposals are set out in a document of
four volumes entitled 'Jabiluka-2 Project Scope Outline' dated
March 1996, which has been provided by ERA to the NLC."

'The Aboriginal groups are not prepared to agree to any change to
the original proposal to mine upon which is based the 1982 mining
agreement under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory)
Act 1976 between Pancontinental Mining Limited, Getty Oil
Development Company Limited, and the Northern Land Council. The
Aboriginal groups are opposed to ERA's proposals for changes to
mining and milling at Jabiluka and in particular, the proposal to
mill Jabiluka ore at the existing Ranger mill. Indeed, they do not
want the Jabiluka mine to proceed at all."

"....I note that the original environmental impact statement for
the Jabiluka project was prepared in 1979.  The passage of
seventeen years clearly renders that statement inadequate as a
basis for making proper decisions, and request that you assist in
ensuring that an up-to-date environmental and social impact
statements are prepared before any mining is permitted to proceed.
Any such assessments will be materially flawed  in not
meaningless, if not undertaken independently and by processes
acceptable to all parties..."

There are number of important points here. The fact is that  a
proposal for a project, then to be undertaken by Pancontinental
Mining and Getty Oil, was approved in 1979, and an agreement
arrived at under some pressure, between the Northern Land Council
and Pancon in 1982.  The proposal agreed to was however, so
different from the proposal that Energy Resources of Australia
wants to pursue, that it is in effect a completely different
proposal.

The Traditional Owners of  Jabiluka, via the NLC, have let it be
known that they neither want to consider a new proposal, nor do
they want to consider renegotiating the old 1982 proposal.  This
means that the entire Jabiluka proposal has been effectively
thrown into a legal morass. (See appended letter to Senators Hill
and Parer from FOE on Jabiluka Project Scoping, where the wishes
of the Jabiluka T.O.'s are referred to, and the Orebody No3 Press
release)

In related developments, the Senate Select Committee on Uranium
mining and Milling has now held preliminary meetings and has
called for submissions, by July 5th.  Hearings will take place
later in the year, possibly in September/October.  Clearly, the
social impact of uranium mining, the consideration that has driven
the Jabiluka TO's to oppose any new uranium project, will be a
crucial consideration at the Senate inquiry, along with the
questions of local and regional environmental impact,  and
bilateral safeguards in the Senate inquiry's terms of reference.

NUCLEAR TESTING
The Nuclear testing issue was again placed on the Australian
agenda by the Chinese test of 8/6/96. Prior to the actual test, a
vigil had already taken place in front of the Chinese consulate on
World Environment Day, in the knowledge that a test could be
imminent, organised by the Wilderness Society's 'Endangered Tibet'
Campaign, Friends of the Earth, and Amnesty.

The test itself saw a response on Sunday 9/6 in front of the
Consulate by Greenpeace, and again on 10/6 (just in case they
didn't get the message) by the Stop uranium mining Coalition and
the Wilderness Society Endangered Tibet campaign and the
Australia-Tibet Council. The Chinese consulate in Sydney is
getting to be a popular spot for demonstrations!  (See enclosed
press release 'Stop Chinese Nuclear Testing' 10/6/96' and letter
re Chinese testing to Alexander Downer)

The Government responded to its credit, by carpeting the Chinese
ambassador almost immediately, and on Monday10/6, by making a
formal protest in Beijing.  A phonecall to the Foreign Minister
Alexander Downers advisers suggested that a consensus of sorts has
arisen as par as Chinese testing is concerned: Both the
conservative government, and the peace and environment movements
see the current program of testing on the eve f the signature of a
CTBT as entirely counterproductive, and have called on Beijing to
desist immediately and to sign a genuine zero-threshold CTBT
immediately without provision for PNE's. The Downer ministerial
office opined to me that a CTBT that provided for PNE's would not
be worth having.

The question is however, just what they will do about the planned
US hydronuclear testing program. If US senators can write to Mr
Clinton asking him to cancel that program so, it seems, should
Australia.

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH PRESS RELEASE 16/5/96

OREBODY-3 APPROVAL AT RANGER URANIUM MINE 'PREMATURE' SAYS F.O.E.

Friends of the Earth have called on the Federal and NT Governments
to put the approval and development of Orebody-3 at the Ranger
uranium mine on hold until the Senate Select Committee on uranium,
recently set up in the Senate as an initiative of the W.A. Greens,
and the environmental review process for the Jabiluka uranium
project are complete. It was announced yesterday by the Northern
Territory Minister of Mines and Energy Mike Read, that his
department has granted approval for Energy resources of Australia
to mine Orebody 3, within the existing Ranger project area.

 According to FOE uranium spokesperson John Hallam:  'Approval for
Orebody Three at this point by the NTDME is highly premature. We
are about to enter two parallel processes of environmental
assessment which will have to consider the cumulative impacts of
all uranium mining operations for the whole region, namely the
formal environmental impact assessment for the development of the
Jabiluka orebody,  under the procedures of the 'Environment
Protection-Impact of Proposals' Act, and the recently created
Senate Select Committee on Uranium Mining. The Senate Select
Committee will be looking at all aspects of the nuclear fuel
cycle, but will be concentrating especially on the impacts of
mining in the Kakadu National Park. As such, it will have to
consider the cumulative impacts of all uranium mining activities,
including not only the new Jabiluka project, but Orebody-3.'
'While it is true that Orebody-three was included in the original
environmental assessment done under the Ranger Inquiry of 1975-77,
the fact is that Orebody-3 does have some special problems,
notably that it is directly under Djalkmara billabong, and will
therefore have to be de-watered extensively. This will require the
removal of Djalkmara Billabong. According to an article by Dr.
K.A. Bishop in the Australian Journal of Ecology 1995,20, 81-107,
Djalkmara Billabong plays a crucial role in providing recruits for
upstream  dry-season refuges, a key ecological process for fish
within this seasonally-flowing creek.'

'In fact, it seems that the timing of the current approval may
have been designed to avoid precisely the scrutiny that the Senate
inquiry and the environmental impact assessment procedures will
focus on it.'

ERA and the NTDME should not be allowed to get  away with this
sleight-of-hand. Orebody-3 should be delayed until the Senate
Select Committee on uranium mining has been allowed to assess it
in the light of the data revealed by the formal environmental
assessment for the Jabiluka proposal' Mr Hallam  concluded.

Friends of the Earth is currently helping to organise a national
day of action against uranium mining on 24th of May, as part of
the Stop Uranium Mining Coalition.   Anti-uranium actions are
scheduled around Australia on that day.

The Stop Uranium Mining Coalition includes Friends of the Earth,
the Wilderness Society, People for Nuclear Disarmament, The
Anti-Bases Coalition, Paddlers for Peace, Sydney Peace Squadron,
the Greens,  Pax Christi, The Australian Conservation Foundation,
The National Union of Students (NSW and National) Sydney
University SRC, the NSW Fire Fighters, the Maritime Workers Union,
the Firefighters Union, The Wayside Chapel, Resistance, and
Socialist Worker.

Contact:  John Hallam, Uranium Campaigner Friends of the Earth
Sydney 283-2004  m(015)202060  ah351-7578,  H810-2598.

STOP CHINESE NUCLEAR TESTING DEMONSTRATION MON 10/6/96.

The Stop Uranium mining group, a coalition consisting of Friends
of the Earth, The Wilderness Society, The greens, People for
Nuclear Disarmament, Resistance, the ISO, Pax Christi, The
National Union of Students, and a large number of other groups,
has condemned yesterdays Chinese test, and will be holding a
protest outside the Chinese Consulate at 539 Elizabeth St Surrey
Hills at 4pm today (Monday 10th.)

According to FOE Sydney Nuclear Campaigner John Hallam:  'The test
yesterday was expected for some time. Nonetheless, right up till
1pm yesterday, we had hoped the Chinese might come to their senses
and desist.  There were indications that the Chinese were being
more accommodating in the negotiations for a comprehensive
test-ban treaty, and not insisting on the right to conduct
so-called TpeacefulU nuclear explosions.  Yesterdays test brings
the Chinese testing total to 44 known tests, one more than the UK.
This means that the Chinese are finally up with what they
doubtless regard as the 'big boys' of the nuclear club, though
they are of course nowhere near the 1030 tests carried out by the
US, the 715 carried out by the  erstwhile USSR, or the 196 carried
out by France.

Nonetheless, China is now the only nation with an active testing
program, and as such this represents a  threat to the signing of a
true zero-threshold  CTBT planned for any time now.  Equally much
of a threat to the real intent of the treaty however, is the
extensive testing in cyberspace that will be done by the US on the
unprecedentedly large and fast 'Paragon' supercomputer at Los
Alamos, the French simulations to be done under the PALEN program,
and similar Russian programs. These virtual tests, in combination
with hydronuclear testing, allow the real intent of the CTBT - the
elimination of warhead development- to be evaded.

We call upon the Australian government to protest in the strongest
terms to the Chinese, but to let France and the US know also that
virtual and hydronuclear test programs done under the excuse of
'stockpile maintenance' are contrary to the spirit  of the CTBT.'

Mr Hallam can be contacted for comment on:  (02)283-2004,
m015-202060 ah351-7578, h810-2598.

ATTN: ALEXANDER DOWNER
RE: CHINESE NUCLEAR TESTING
FROM: JOHN HALLAM.

Dear Mr Downer:  I am writing to you as organiser of the recent
demonstration against nuclear testing outside the Chinese
Consulate in Sydney.

As you are probably aware, a vigil and a demonstration against
nuclear testing and  the destruction of the Tibetan environment
took place on Tuesday 4/ Wednesday 5th June, and then again on
Monday 10/6 in response to the Chinese test at Lop Nor on Saturday
8/6.

The vigil on 4/5 June was organised by the Wilderness Society
(TWS) with the help of Friends of the Earth (FOE) and the Stop
Uranium Mining Coalition,(SUM). The one on Mon10th in response to
the actual test was organised by FOE and the SUM coalition with
the support of TWS.  Another demonstration in response to the same
test was held on Sunday 9/6 by Greenpeace.

In my statements to media on 10/6 outside the Consulate, I was for
once in a position to congratulate the government. It was
gratifying to see that  you summoned the Chinese ambassador
immediately and conveyed your displeasure.

I understand that you have told the Chinese government that:
testing in the light of world reaction to French nuclear testing
last year, and in the crucial leadup time before the conclusion of
a comprehensive test-ban treaty is insensitive in the extreme;
that a 45th Chinese test would be unacceptable; and that a strong,
zero- threshold CTBT, without provisions for so-called 'peaceful'
nuclear explosions (PNEs) is essential.

FOE and other antinuclear organisations certainly agree with this
perspective.  However, we would point out that while Chinese (and
French) testing is unacceptable, and while it is absolutely
necessary for a CTBT not to contain loopholes allowing PNEUs,
there are other ways in which nuclear warhead development can and
will continue even after the signature of a CTBT.

The possibility of substantial programs of 'hydronuclear' and
virtual testing taking place in the US and Russia and
sophisticated programs of virtual testing (as well as certain
aspects of the laser facility operating near Bordeaux in France
and similar facilities such as the projected NIF facility in the
US) enable warhead development and optimisation to take place. It
is noteworthy that an early Indonesian version of the CTBT text
prohibited testing in all environments including in cyberspace.
The Indonesian text failed I understand, due to opposition from
the weapons powers and because of concerns over the practicality
of enforcement.

Our concern in demonstrating outside the Chinese consulate in
Sydney on Monday was to make it clear to the Chinese government
that testing, any testing, by any country - France or China, or
for that matter the US or Russia - is absolutely unacceptable. It
is gratifying to see that your government was able to make this
clear to China.

I would like to suggest however, that you should express concern
also over US hydronuclear and virtual testing, and over similar
activities in France and Russia. In this matter, it is important
to note that when a group of 21 congresspeople wrote to President
Clinton asking him to strongly protest the Chinese test, they also
asked him to immediately cancel US hydronuclear tests planned at
the Nevada test site on June18th.

Clearly, differences will exist between us over the matter of
uranium mining and export. FOE strongly believes that any
participation in the nuclear fuel cycle contributes to the danger
of nuclear proliferation by increasing the quantity of fissionable
material in circulation, and increasing the chances of
weapons-significant quantities going astray.   We will continue to
oppose the mining of uranium, and seek to persuade you to do so
too.  However, it is pleasing to see that in this matter, we seem
to be moving in a similar direction.

The signing of a strong, zero-threshold CTBT without loopholes for
PNEs will be a significant step toward a nuclear - weapons - free
world, as would the cessation of hydronuclear and virtual testing.


I look forward to further cooperation in this matter, Yours
Sincerely, John Hallam.  Nuclear Campaigner, F.O.E. Sydney

ATTN: SENATOR HILL, SENATOR PARER.

FROM: JOHN HALLAM
RE: URANIUM INQUIRY, CEPA.

Dear Senators Hill and Parer:  I am writing to you in connection
with the calls by the ACF, Wilderness Society,ECNT, and FOE
Melbourne for a public inquiry into the environmental impact of
uranium mining in the Kakadu National Park under section 11 of the
1974 Environment Protection - Impact of Proposals legislation.  I
also wish to make clear our absolute horror at recent reports that
your government is contemplating the dismantling of the
Commonwealth EPA, currently headed by Mr Barry Carbon.

1)CEPA The dismantlement of the Commonwealth EPA, at a saving of a
relatively miserable $20million, would render impossible the
adequate assessment of environmental impact statements for not
only uranium projects, but other projects that come under
Commonwealth jurisdiction, or that require Commonwealth
expenditure or approvals.  Unless the Office of the Supervising
Scientist, currently part of the EPA, were to continue under the
jurisdiction of some other department or were to revert to its
previous independent existence, the functions of that body would
cease also - a disaster for environmental protection and
monitoring that would make nonsense of your governments statements
that uranium mining would proceed only under  the most stringent
possible environmental safeguards and monitoring. FOE has argued
for years that the Office of the Supervising Scientist should
become responsible via its current integration with CEPA, for all
uranium mining activities nationwide as well as for the creation
and enforcement of all national nuclear regulation. I expressed
this view only recently in Canberra to your office and to Senator
Parer.  The abolition of CEPA is a move in precisely the opposite
direction.

In addition, CEPA is the only Commonwealth body that can be
responsible for national and international nuclear standards and
codes in Australia under the TEnvironment Protection - Nuclear
CodesU legislation passed by the previous Coalition government.
These include the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the
Mining and Milling of Radioactive ores, the Code of Practice and
Guidelines for the Disposal of Radioactive Waste by Shallow Land
Burial, and codes of practice for disposal of uranium tailings and
for the transport of radioactive materials.  These codes are based
in part on international standards to which Australia is a party.


CEPA provides an essential environmental safeguard, and should not
only be retained but expanded and improved. Your government has
stated that it sees the protection of the environment as a
priority. If this is truly so it must remain so whatever the
prospects for proceeds from the partial privatisation of Telstra.


2) URANIUM INQUIRY I note that you have already said in your
public statements that you do not wish for an inquiry that
canvasses the broader issues involved with uranium mining in
general, and that you believe that the Ranger inquiry of 1975-77
has already examined the issues involved.

However, I believe that a   strong case  exists for a public
inquiry, both into the broader issues raised by uranium mining,
and into the multiple site-specific environmental issues raised by
the possibility of new mines in Kakadu.

In meetings recently in Canberra with Senator Parer  and with your
own office, I emphasised that my own past experience of the last
20 years with environmental impact assessment procedure under the
1974 Act has been less than satisfactory.  Areas in which I
indicated there are problems include the treatment of the 'no
project' option, which is normally dismissed in a few contemptuous
lines, lack of adequate feasibility and economic analyses, and the
absence of a proper 'cost-benefit' approach in general, a lack
which is all the more surprising as the 1974 Act itself is clearly
framed in a manner that emphasises that the 'no project' option
must be taken seriously, and that the process itself is not merely
one of deciding what safeguards may be Tadded onU to a project for
which a go-ahead is already predetermined, but is one of
determining whether or not the project or projects under
consideration should proceed at all.  All too often, it seems to
me that the environmental impact assessment procedure has been
used as a kind of rubber-stamp to legitimatise decisions for a
project go- ahead that have been taken elsewhere. This should not
happen and is contrary to the spirit and intent of the 1974
legislation.

A public inquiry is certainly the best way to get around this
problem . A public inquiry would provide an independent assessment
of the environmental impact of multiple uranium mining projects in
the Kakadu area, without being totally dependent for its input on
company or company consultant-prepared EISUs. In addition, a
public inquiry will be able to provide an unbiased (or less
biased) assessment of the actual benefit of going ahead with any
of the proposed projects in the Kakadu area.This process would
best facilitate your stated goal of ensuring that the Kakadu
region receives the highest degree of environmental protection.  A
public inquiry will be able to deal with more than one project at
a time, so that the combined impact of Ranger, Jabiluka, and
Koongarra may be considered at once in an integrated manner,
whereas a simple EIS is unable to achieve this as each project is
considered separately.

You argue that the Ranger inquiry of 1975-77 has already covered
the relevant issues.  However, the Ranger inquiry took place
nearly 20 years ago, and while it was in some respects a model
environmental inquiry,  its conclusions for a Jabiluka or
Koongarra project today are certainly dated. It is worth noting
however, that the Ranger inquiry recommended (a) that the
Koongarra project should not proceed, and (b) that no more than
one uranium project should operate at any one time - a policy it
called 'sequential development', which was in effect a one-mine
policy. (c) That no central milling of uranium should occur. The
development of Jabiluka contravenes both those recommendations.

Since the time of the Ranger inquiry, some 15 years of operating
experience has been accumulated with uranium mining in Kakadu, and
a number of problems have arisen which were not anticipated by it.
These include problems with water management and long - terms
tailings storage which are documented in detail in successive
annual reports of the Office of the Supervising  Scientist (OSS),
created as one of the recommendations of the Ranger inquiry.

FOE has in addition expressed to Senator Parer and to your office
our observation that the current regulatory and monitoring
arrangements in the NT, in which the OSS monitors and sets
standards, while the NTDME has the power to enforce environmental
requirements are a recipe for administrative confusion.
Clarification of, and public confidence in, the monitoring and
regulatory mechanisms is particularly vital in this time  of new
mining proposals and a changing series of working arrangements
between the relevant agencies. The operation of these regulatory
arrangements would be a fit subject for consideration by a Kakadu
uranium environmental inquiry under Section11.

Finally, I note that calls have been made for the current Senate
inquiry on Low Level Radioactive Waste to continue through the
current Senate as an inquiry into uranium mining.  This is no
reason not to hold a Section11 inquiry.  There is a strong need
for an inquiry into the very principle of the expansion of uranium
mining in this country, especially in view of the fact that the
environmental community as a whole as well as much of the
Australian public would clearly rather see uranium mining cease
completely.  A Senate Inquiry, if it took place should in our
view, encompass the broadest considerations relating to uranium
mining. As such, it would fulfil a different function from a more
narrowly-focused inquiry under Section-11 of the 1974 Act.

Both a section-11 inquiry and a broader  Senate inquiry are in our
opinion, an absolute necessity in view of your governments plans,
and we call on you to reconsider your attitude in this matter.
Current proposals to abolish CEPA make the necessity for an
inquiry even more pressing.

Yours Sincerely, John R. Hallam.  Uranium Campaigner, Friends of
the Earth Sydney.  cc Dr. Carmen Lawrence Senator Faulkner Senator
Meg Lees Senator Cheryl Kernot Senator Dee Margetts Barry Carbon
Stewart Needham




ATTN SENATOR ROBERT HILL
SENATOR WARWICK PARER
cc Barry Carbon, CEPA.  Northern Land  Council.  Jabiluka assn.

FROM: JOHN HALLAM, F.O.E. SYDNEY.
RE: JABILUKA URANIUM PROJECT SCOPING.

Dear Senators Hill and Parer:  I am writing to you to articulate
concerns FOE and others have over the environmental impact
assessment scoping process for the Jabiluka project. It is
essential that there be full public participation in the scoping
process, especially in the light of what appears to be firm
opposition by the traditional owners to any go-ahead for that
project, as well as concerns arising out of nearly 20 years
experience of commenting on uranium projects under EPIP
procedures.

1)Scoping Process Full public participation in the scoping
process, whereby the public gets to comment on what matters are in
fact covered by the environmental impact assessment process is
common, and is not incompatible with guidelines that are already
set out in the administrative procedures to the EPIP legislation.
For example, US EIA practice involves a scoping exercise in which
scoping hearings may be held, or in which scoping may take place
as a result of comments in response to a 'Notice of Intent' (NOI)
to prepare an EIS. Scoping is part of the formal EIA process in
W.A., where the public is also able to appeal to the Minister
against the level of assessment. The Commonwealth EPA has I
understand, proposed the introduction of public scoping into the
EPIP process. I also understand from conversations with your
(Senator Hills) staff, that there will in fact, be a public
scoping process, and urge that this be adhered to.

2)Concerns arising out of Comment Experience Thus far, I have
commented for FOE on the original Jabiluka project, on the
Koongarra project, on the Yeelirrie project, on the Beverley
project, the Honeymoon project, the Ben Lomond project, and the
Olympic Dam (Roxby Downs) project.  The experience has been a
dispiriting one, as it seems that the spirit and intent of the Act
and its administrative procedures have been steadily eroded. A
reading of the Administrative procedures of the Act would lead one
to expect detailed information on cost-benefit analysis of uranium
projects, a full analysis of the 'no action' alternative, and the
production of detailed feasibility studies. This information,
desirable whatever the legal niceties of the Act, has been notably
lacking in uranium EISUs.

This observation applies particularly to sections 2.2 of the
administrative procedures, section 3.1.2., and section 4.1 which
specify the information required by procedures,  the matters to be
taken into account by an EIS, and the contents of  environmental
impact statements. These are all matters that properly fall within
the province of scoping.

These sections of the Act, while they relate to three separate
levels of review - the consideration by the Minister for the need
for an EIS or PER,(2.2) the consideration by the Minister of the
level of assessment(3.1.2.) and the information to be contained in
an EIS(4.1 b,f,i) - clearly demonstrate that a major priority of
the Act is to evaluate not only secondary matters such as the
environmental safeguards to be applied to a project, but is above
all to evaluate whether indeed any given project should take place
at all. Yet evaluation of whether a given project should or should
not proceed, especially important in the case of controversial
projects such as uranium mines (or any other controversial
projects) has been notably absent from both draft and final EISUs
for uranium projects.

Indeed, If I were to present a 'wish list' in regard to scoping,
it would be simply that the existing administrative procedures be
adhered to both as to their spirit and letter.  This would be
particularly so with regard to the overall policy question as to
whether a project should in fact proceed - that is whether the
project under contemplation is or is not in the national
interest.

Both the EPIP Act and the administrative procedures are clearly
designed with this as the most important question to be dealt with
in any environmental assessment. Yet actual uranium project EIS's
do not reflect this emphasis at all, and rather seem to be
prepared on the assumption that a project go-ahead is inevitable,
and that the only matters open for discussion are say, the colour
of the site boundary fence, or at best the nature of the tailings
disposal method. In practice, it is likely to be assumed that this
too, is already decided.  The practice to date has been even in
these secondary matters, not so much to take public concerns into
account in actually planning the project so that the final EIS
represents a project plan that is in some sense the result of
public input - (which I take to be the intent of the EPIP Act )-
but rather to produce a final EIS which simply tells the benighted
and ignorant public that it has got everything wrong, in which
case one wonders what was the point of the exercise in the first
place.

Let us look in more detail at the matter of the overall benefit or
otherwise of the project.

According to Section 2.2(a) of the Administrative procedures, "For
the purposes of paragraph2.1, the information required by these
procedures shall, to the extent appropriate in the circumstances
of the case, be information- (a)summarising any preliminary
planning, consideration, or work undertaken in relation to the
proposed action and in particular, describing any feasible and
prudent alternative to the proposed action" While according to
section 4.1 of the administrative procedures, "To the extent
appropriate in the circumstances of the case, an environmental
impact statement shall- (a)State the objectives of the proposed
action (b)Analyse the need for the proposed action.  (c) Indicate
the consequences of not taking the proposed action
.....(f)examine any feasible and prudent alternative to the
proposed action.
....(i)outline the reasons for the choice of the proposed action."

 Other subsections of both 4.1 and 2.2 include information that
 would be absolutely necessary for achieving an overall
 cost/benefit analysis of the proposed action.

These sections of the administrative procedures have special
relevance to uranium projects, where the need for, and benefit of,
the project is hotly contested. They also have special relevance
where the traditional owners of the land on which the project
takes place have indicated their opposition to the project.

Yet in general, environmental impact statements have given most of
their consideration to matters such as the precise brand of
down-hole EM probe used for well-logging, rather than to any form
of cost-benefit analysis or national interest analysis of the
project as a whole.

Environmental impact statements, both draft and final, have tended
to deal with 4.1(b) (c) and (f), and 2.2(a) covering the need for
the proposed action, consequences of not taking it, and feasible
and prudent alternatives to it in a manner that is completely
unsatisfactory.

Thus, the original (1979) final EIS for the Jabiluka project, in
section 4.1 of the EIS, Talternatives consideredU notes different
mining procedures but pays no attention whatsoever to the
no-project alternative, though this was the most popular
alternative mentioned by commentators on the EIS - a deficiency
that was bought to the attention of the minister at the time by
FOE.  Similar tales could be told about every other uranium EIS.


While matters of environmental monitoring, mitigation, and
protection are crucial once a project go-ahead is given, the
question of whether it ought, all things considered, to be given
is or should be central to the process under EPIP, and it is clear
from the manner in which the administrative procedures are
formulated that this was so for the framers of this act.

3) Social Impacts Another matter which needs to be taken into
account under EPIP procedures as a matter of highest priority is
that of the social impact of uranium projects.  According to the
administrative procedures, 3.1.2.)(a) in determining the level of
assessment, the Minister must take into account of whether or not
the proposed action has "(i)a substantial environmental effect on
a community".  The Commonwealth EIA Review notes on p35 that:
"153. Impacts on people and their surroundings (particularly the
social and health aspects of environmental change) go beyond the
natural world to encompass human activity and quality of life.
These impacts may include changes in peoples lifestyles, their
cultural traditions and their community..."

The CEPA review goes on to say that environmental review should
nonetheless be limited to the interaction between the biophysical
and the social environments, a suggestion that seems to contradict
the original definition of 'environment' in the Act as 'all
aspects of the surroundings of Man, whether affecting him as an
individual or in his social groupings...' Be that as it may, FOE
thinks that social impact in its widest sense must be part of any
environmental review process.

This is particularly the case where Indigenous peoples and their
rights are concerned, and especially so  where development has
been foisted on local peoples whether they want it or not. In this
context, it is significant that the NLC has requested up-to-date
environmental and social impact statements be prepared by
independent processes acceptable to all parties.

Where, as in the case of the Jabiluka project, the traditional
owners of the land on which the project stands have made it clear
that they consent neither to the project as it is now envisaged
nor to the project envisaged in the 1982 agreement between
Pancontinental mining and the NLC, that lack of consent must be
taken into account.  In our view, it must be absolutely respected,
and  there must be no question of applying pressure on that
community, already subjected to more pressures than it should be,
to change its mind or to proceed under the 1982 agreement. You
have made it clear on a number of occasions that you will
absolutely respect the wishes of the Traditional Owners. If indeed
you wish to do so, then it is clear that the Jabiluka project
cannot proceed, and that the only result that can legitimately
come out of an honest EPIP process is an assessment that the
project should be terminated. 4.1(c) which requires that the EIS
'indicate the consequences of not taking the proposed action' of
the administrative procedures, is not only something that should
be examined in detail, but is indeed the only valid alternative,
given the expressed attitude of the Jabiluka Traditional Owners.

In Summary, we call on you:  (a)To ensure full public involvement
in the scoping procedure.  (b)To ensure that alternatives to the
proposed project including especially the no-project option are
taken seriously as the administrative procedures indicate that
they should be.  (c)Ensure that EPIP cover a full evaluation of
social impacts.  (d)Take the refusal of the Jabiluka TOUs as
decisive not only for the existing project alternative but for any
uranium mine whatsoever, and ensure absolutely that no pressure of
any kind is bought to bear on them to change their mind.

John Hallam Uranium Campaigner, F.O.E. Sydney.  cc Senator Tom
Wheelwright Senator Dee Margetts Senator Meg Lees Dr. Carmen
Lawrence M.P.

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH PRESS RELEASE 2/5/96 SENATE URANIUM INQUIRY
THE RIGHT MOVE SAYS F.O.E.

Green group Friends of the Earth today congratulated the Greens,
the Democrats, the Government and the Opposition on  decision to
hold a Senate inquiry into uranium mining, but emphasised that
this will in no way alter the opposition of FOE and the rest of
the green movement to uranium mining and participation in the
nuclear fuel cycle.

According to FOE uranium campaigner John Hallam, "The decision to
hold a full inquiry with broad terms of reference into all aspects
of uranium mining in Australia including the aspects of
proliferation and waste disposal as well as all aspects of uranium
mining within Australia itself is most welcome. F.O.E. has lobbied
the government and the opposition most strenuously in this matter
over the past weeks, and we indicated clearly to all parties that
we preferred the terms of reference suggested by the greens to the
much narrower Kakadu-oriented ones put forward by the ALP.  A
decision to increase the number of uranium mines in Australia,
especially a decision to rely on the free-market driven approach
advocated by the government has implications far beyond the Kakadu
region, important and precious as that region is, and disastrous
as more uranium mines in that region would be."

"There are potential uranium projects at Kintyre adjoining the
Rudall River National Park in W.A., at Yeelirrie in W.A., at
Honeymoon and Beverley in S.A.., and at Ben Lomond in Queensland,
and there are proposals for a major increase in the uranium output
of Roxby Downs which could have catastrophic implications for the
SA Mound Springs.  There is currently no national regulatory
framework for uranium mining, only a series of ad-hoc arrangements
which differ from state to state. All of these issues will need to
be addressed by the Senate Inquiry.  It will need to start by
focusing on the Jabiluka project in Kakadu as that is poised to
go, but then it must canvass these much broader issues as well as
site and project-specific issues."

"FOE expects that in the coming months, that we will have a
productive and hard-working relationship with the inquiry, and
that they will take seriously the proposition we have been arguing
for the last 20 years: That Australia should leave uranium in the
ground." Contact: John Hallam, (02)283-2004 M(015)202060
H(02)810-2598.

fax(61)(2)283-2005 e-mail foesydney@peg.apc.org


.
<hr>299/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-221</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B018-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108190925 text/html 836
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:08:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 679
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: MAG@phil.gn.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: new address
Date: 15 Jun 1996 03:01:04

From: MAG@phil.gn.apc.org (MAG)
Date: 15 Jun 96 17:17:11 -0800


Dear friends,

My new address is

lolit@emile.com.ph

Please use this address for all subsequent mails.

Thanks.

Lolit






.
<hr>300/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-222</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B019-4</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108191035 text/html 964
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:09:29 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 807
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: rajmutalik@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Re: new address
Date: 16 Jun 1996 05:59:09

From: "Dr. Gururaj (Raj) Mutalik"  rajmutalik@igc.apc.org 

Dear Lolit, 

Information regarding the cost and feasibility of extending the 
student meeting to one or two more days before the congress will be 
avialble to me tommorrow Monday June 17. I will either call you or 
inform you by E mail.

Thanks,

Raj
.
<hr>301/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-223</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B019-69</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108191133 text/html 1667
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:10:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1509
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-vre
From: ekahan@post.tau.ac.il
Newsgroups: ippnw.campaign
Subject: Re: Auschwitz (fwd)
Date: 25 Jun 1996 07:14:59

From: "Dr. Ernesto Kahan"  ekahan@post.tau.ac.il 





> 
> To Whom It May Concern:
> 
> I was astounded and horrified to learn that a shopping mall is under
> construction just 30 yards from the site where 1 million Jews and 600,000
> non-Jews were murdered.  This is an outrage to the memory of those who
> died, and an insult to the moral conscience of humanity today.  It is my
> understanding that it is also a direct violation of international law,
> including obligations of the state of Poland under the 1972 UN Convention
> on the Protection of World Cultural and National Heritage.
> 
> Whatever is necessary to halt this construction permanently must be done
> immediately.
> 
> Lachlan Forrow, MD
> Assistant Professor of Medicine
> Division of Medical Ethics
> Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Hospital
> 
2. PLEASE  HELP IN SENDING YOUR PROTEST  
 

Thank you for the collaboration.

DR Ernesto Kahan 
Head Epidemiology
Institute for Occupational Health
Tel Aviv University
Tel Aviv
Israel

.
<hr>302/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-224</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B019-118</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108191221 text/html 4688
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:11:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4530
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 704 records<br>

41  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=41"> 34 19960625 Re: new address</a>
42  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=42"> 100 19960625 CND berates Labour Trident pledge as "Coward's Manifesto"</a>
43  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=43"> 86 19960625 Anti-nuclear movements back French over N-Tests</a>
44  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=44"> 64 19960625 Crucial Point in CTBT Negotiations</a>
45  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=45"> 646 19960626 Congress Program</a>
46  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=46"> 44 19960626 Dr. Eyad El Sarraj</a>
47  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=47"> 58 19960626 Re: Dr. Eyad El Sarraj</a>
48  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=48"> 11 19960626 Arafat's Correct FAX number</a>
49  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=49"> 127 19960627 CTBT Letter to Oz Foreign Minister</a>
50  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=50"> 396 19960627 Re: Congress Program</a>
51  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=51"> 86 19960628 (Fwd) Feinstein action alert</a>
52  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=52"> 189 19960701 World Court Judgment Day</a>
53  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=53"> 205 19960701 Re: World Court Judgment Day</a>
54  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=54"> 13 19960702 homepage</a>
55  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=55"> 411 19960703 Forwarded mail....</a>
56  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=56"> 112 19960704 WCP - pre-decision press release</a>
57  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=57"> 614 19960704 WCP - draft press releases</a>
58  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=58"> 82 19960528 Re: Orphaned Response</a>
59  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=59"> 69 19960527 Re: Computers Released -- what happens</a>
60  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=60"> 43 19960528 update: another prisoner sentenced</a>
61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=61"> 89 19960528 CAMPAIGN FOR CORN</a>
62  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=62"> 186 19960528 Message from Rev. Lucius Walker</a>
63  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=63"> 188 19960528 Message from Rev. WAlker -- Fast fo</a>
64  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=64"> 64 19960528 Tiananmen Masscre</a>
65  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=65"> 73 19960529 Connections '96</a>
66  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=66"> 64 19960529 Media Advisory for FAST for LIFE</a>
67  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=67"> 23 19960530 T/T's posted at igc</a>
68  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=68"> 144 19960530 Children Now Update</a>
69  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=69"> 65 19960530 Warren Christopher SAMPLE LETTER</a>
70  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=70"> 26 19960602 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
71  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=71"> 83 19960601 FAST for LIFE UPDATE -- Congression</a>
72  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=72"> 324 19960530 Askia Muhammad on Fast for Life</a>
73  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=73"> 37 19960530 tapes for Tuzla (fwd)</a>
74  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=74"> 79 19960531 6/2 DC Action . . .</a>
75  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=75"> 33 19960604 update on Oventic</a>
76  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=76"> 388 19960604 International Call to Chiapas(Spani</a>
77  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=77"> 22 19960606 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
78  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=78"> 259 19960606 Electronic Mail4 (fwd)</a>
79  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=79"> 92 19960606 Elorriaga and Entzin Freed!</a>
80  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=80"> 26 19960607 Conscientious Objection</a>
<hr>41-80/704    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=681-720">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-225</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA025-000263-B020-9</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=681-720 194.10.201.200 19970108191319 text/html 3130
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 20:12:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2972
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 704 records<br>

681  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=681"> 491 19961224 Extended Link List related to the L</a>
682  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=682"> 36 19961224 PHILIPPINES - AF TO BUY JETS IN $80</a>
683  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=683"> 680 19961223 PSR Security Program Monthly Update</a>
684  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=684"> 271 19961226 FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS Statistics</a>
685  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=685"> 908 19961226 DEFENSE AND STRATEGY RELATED WWW SI</a>
686  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=686"> 17 19961226 SIPRI International Relations and S</a>
687  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=687"> 120 19961227 FINAL REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT COU</a>
688  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=688"> 22 19961227 BOTSWANA - DEF FORCE RECEIVES 1st F</a>
689  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=689"> 35 19961227 CROATIA - AIR FORCE TO PURCHASE U.S</a>
690  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=690"> 394 19961229 Su-35 "Flanker" fighter74</a>
691  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=691"> 43 19961230 U.S. - MDC PROBE SOUGHT BY SENATOR</a>
692  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=692"> 46 19961231 FRANCE - DEF MIN SEEKS TO PROMOTE W</a>
693  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=693"> 64 19961229 Genocide Conference--New Dates</a>
694  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=694"> 25 19961230 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=695"> 39 19961231 U.S. - MDC ROLE IN FINNISH EQUIPMEN</a>
696  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=696"> 23 19970101 Lockheed Martin F-16</a>
697  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=697"> 192 19970102 U.S. Holds Key to Ban Of Mines: Cli</a>
698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=698"> 26 19970102 Arms Trade List</a>
699  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=699"> 23 19970102 T/T's posted at igc</a>
700  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=700"> 11 19970102 No Subject Given</a>
701  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=701"> 111 19970103 The Land Mine Carnage</a>
702  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=702"> 27 19970105 Defense Reutilization & Marketing S</a>
703  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=703"> 103 19970105 PNEWS: Appeal from the parents of D</a>
704  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=681-720&menu=1.12&q=so&in=704"> 50 19970105 Wash.,DC: Noam Chomsky speaks, Jan.</a>
<hr>681-704/704    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=641-680">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-226</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000629-B049-11</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/midi4.html 194.10.201.200 19970122041927 text/html 14673
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:19:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14467
Last-Modified: Sunday, 23-Jun-96 23:15:04 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>MidiVerb IV</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/alesis.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/midi4.jpg">
<h1>MidiVerb 4</h1>
<h2>Advanced 16 bit fully integrated extended range signal processor</h2><hr>

<h5>MidiVerb 4's superb reverb and effects algorithms are the direct
result of our ten year mastery of the art and technology of sound.
As the world's leading designer of full custom VLSIs for digital
audio, we put our latest and best efforts into this superior signal
processor. MidiVerb 4 boasts an extremely powerful 20 Bit DSP
engine that is so advanced it eliminates massive quantities of
discrete circuitry and drives its price/performance ratio to a level
unrivaled in the music and audio worlds. Delivering high
performance at an affordable price is what made the original
MidiVerbs the leading signal processors of their day. MidiVerb 4
will extend that lineage for a long time to come. The best part, as
with its predecessors, MidiVerb 4 will take care of all your signal
processing needs without damaging your bank account. No
matter what the application - instrument, studio, stage - MidiVerb 4
is clean, quiet, rich and smart.
<p>
MidiVerb 4 provides great effects processing for a wide variety of
applications. Each effect algorithm was carefully designed to offer
advantages that average processors may not include.
</h5><hr>
<h3>REVERB EFFECT</h3>

When it's time to choose Reverb effects processing for vocals and
instruments, MidiVerb 4 has some
great options to choose from. The
Concert Hall algorithm offers a
superb simulation of a large hall
with many reflective surfaces. Like a
real concert hall, the reverb's timbre
changes as the reflections diminish.
It's a classic reverb that sounds
equally great on vocals as it does on
drums, electric and orchestral instru-
ments. MidiVerb 4's Real Room algorithm offers a simulation of a
medium-sized studio recording room. It's a very rich sound with a
smooth decay. The Ambience effect simulates a very small room,
and is useful to fill-out thin sounds without dramatically changing
their timbral content. The Plate Reverb effect in MidiVerb 4 gives
you that classic plate reverb sound.
<p>
It's a great effect to use with lead vocals, snare drum, or rhythm
guitar. Also, MidiVerb 4 provides a Nonlinear (reverse) reverb
effect that's great to use with drums or other percussive sounds
for an excellent backwards tape effect.
<p>
The best thing about MidiVerb 4's Reverb effects is that
regardless of your application, you'll be able to fine-tune the effect
for your individual need with an extensive list of parameters.
MidiVerb 4 not only offers standard reverb parameters like Decay
and Pre-Delay, but also provides advanced parameters that all
reverb connoisseurs can appreciate. The Density parameter
controls the quality of the first reverberation reflection. Diffusion
determines the "thickness" of the reverb sound by adding more
reflections to the reverb's decay. Separate High and Low
Frequency Damping gives you control over equalization of the
reverb decay so you can cut the highs if the effect is too bright,
or cut the low end if it sounds too boomy. MidiVerb 4's
Reverberation Swirl parameter can add a dramatic
chorus/detune effect to a reverb decay. Plus, when you're
recording huge drum sounds, the Gating parameter provides
Hold and Release times from 0 to 500 milliseconds.
<hr>
<h3>DELAY EFFECTS</h3>

If you play or record guitars, MidiVerb 4 has programs with up
to 1299 milliseconds of Delay. Each Mono and Stereo Delay
program gives you parameters to adjust delay time, delay
feedback, and high/low frequency equalization. By changing
the frequency content of the delayed signal, MidiVerb 4 allows
you to simulate the classic tape-style echo, where each consecu-
tive echo is darker than the previous one. Ping-Pong Delay
bounces the delayed signal from left to right for animated
panning effects.
<hr>
<h3>ADVANCED DELAYS</h3>

MidiVerb 4 also has several advanced Delay functions which take
its capabilities above and beyond those of other processors in its
range. With MultiTap Delay, you can control three separate
delays, each of which has individual delay, level,
panning and feedback controls. You can create
very interesting and complex rhythmic patterns
by adjusting the delay time of each tap. Plus,
taps may be entered manually with a button on 
Midiverb 4's front panel or with a footswitch.
BPM Mono Delay allows you to adjust your delay times in beats-
per-minute, and you can assign specific note values to the delay
so setting a 104 BPM delay with dotted eighth notes is just a
matter of dialing up those values on the LCD screen.
<hr>
<h3>PITCH EFFECTS</h3>

MidiVerb 4's pitch effects sound great on keyboards, guitars,
strings or even backing vocals. The Stereo Chorus effect offers
a myriad of variable parameters, like Predelay, Speed, Depth and
Waveform Shape adjustment. Quad Chorus modulates four
delayed signals, each with its phase offset by 90 degrees, for
extremely deep, full-sounding chorusing. The Stereo Flange
effect gives you the classic tunnel sound that you came to
know and love in your old stomp boxes... without all the
unwanted noise and distortion.
<p>
MidiVerb 4's Stereo Pitch Shift effect, as the name implies,
allows you to select individual detune amounts for the left and
right channels, for harmonization on
guitars, synths and other instruments.
The Mono Pitch Shift can also be
combined with Delay for some interesting
Doppler-type sound effects. MidiVerb 4
also includes an Auto Pan feature which
allows you to alternate the loudness in
opposite channels. You can define the panning rate, direction
and high/low frequency attenuation of your signal. Auto Pan
is not only great for all instrumental applications, but also for
audio post-production for film and video purposes.
<hr>
<h3>ROTATING SPEAKER EFFECTS</h3>
If you ever use organ patches on your keyboard, you'll
appreciate MidiVerb 4's Lezlie effect. The Lezlie effect
simulates the complex timbral changes of a mechanical
rotating speaker. The resulting sound of MidiVerb 4's
advanced DSP engine combined with this advanced pitch
algorithm is astounding. Available parameters for this effect
include Motor On/Off, Speed (either slow or fast), and High
Rotor Level, which attenuates the high frequency volume.
HMidiVerb 4 is so smart that it even ramps the
Lezlie effect rather than changing abruptly when
you turn it on or off, or when you change rotor
speeds, just like a true rotating speaker system.
<hr>
<h3>DUAL CHANNEL PARALLEL PROCESSING</h3>
Each of MidiVerb 4's 256 programs use one of 32 configura
tions, or arrangements of effects. Single configurations consist
of one effect, and utilize complex effect algorithms both in
mono and stereo. Double configurations have two mono-
in/stereo-out effects linked together. Dual Mono configura
tions provide one mono-in/mono-out effect for each channel.
Plus, Cascade Mode allows you to route the output of the
channel one effect into the input of the channel two effect for
great sounding multieffects. Last, Multi Chain configurations
provide two or three stereo effects connected in a series.
<hr>
<h3>MIDI APPLICATIONS</h3>

MidiVerb 4's MIDI capabilities provide several different
functions: recalling programs using MIDI Program Change messages, sending and receiving Sysex (System
Exclusive) dumps of individual programs or program banks, and
passing information through to another MIDI device. Plus,
MidiVerb 4 allows you to modulate
parameters in real time via MIDI
controllers (pedals, mod wheels,
etc.). Each configuration offers
two carefully chosen parameters
that can be modulated
via MIDI. In the middle
of a performance, you can alter reverb decay, delay
feedback, and flange depth among other
parameters, making the MidiVerb 4 an extremely
versatile processor for every application.
<hr>
<h3>AUTO LEVEL SENSING</h3>

MidiVerb 4 has the unique ability to automatically
select the proper levels for the inputs
on the signal you are routing to it. In other
words, you tell the MidiVerb 4 to auto-adjust levels,
and then feed it a signal (by playing your guitar or
keyboard, or playing back tape); MidiVerb 4 does the
rest. All you have to do is press the front-panel Input
and Output buttons at the same time. MidiVerb 4 will
listen to your signal for five seconds (or as long as you
choose, using a standard footswitch pedal to trigger
the Auto Level Sensing feature). Your input signal
will be set to the optimum level to take advantage of
MidiVerb 4's wide dynamic range.
<hr>
<h1>4 reasons why...</h1>
<ol>
<h2><li>CLEAN</h2>
MidiVerb 4 provides 128 factory preset and 128 user-editable programs of great-sounding reverbs, delays and pitch
effects. It utilizes 18 bit, 128 times oversampling analog-to-digital converters operating at the professional standard 48kHz
sample rate, providing a dynamic range of over 90dB (A-weighted) and a flat frequency response from 20Hz to 20kHz,
resulting in performance that rivals much more expensive processors. MidiVerb 4's digital-to-analog converters are also
18 bit, and offer 8 times oversampling to further maintain the absolute clarity of your signal.
<h2><li>QUIET</h2>
Midiverb 4's super-quiet processed output is a result of its amazinglylowTHD+N (Total
Harmonic Distortion plus Noise) of less than 0.009% at 1kHz. The high level of channel seperation between
 MidiVerb 4's independent left and right channels is maintained by a
impressive crosstalk spec of over 90dB. This superior audio performance results in tremen-
dous depth and image stability and guarantees your mixes will not get muddied when you turn
up the effects buss.
<h2><li>RICH</h2>
The first and last reason to own a digital processor is the sound. Midiverb 4's reverb and effects are derived from the richest sounding algorithms in the audio industry.reverb and
The naturalness and
subtlety of details inthese algorithms is astounding. But creating superb effects requires more than
just manipulating numbers to imitate space, reflectiveness and timbre. In fact, it requires an artist's
sensitivity to a myriad of complex dynamic elements. The rich sound of Midiverb 4 is a direct result
of our long history in digital audio mixed with the creative invention of true master craftsmen.
<h2><li>SMART</h2>
MidiVerb 4's 20 bit DSP engine offers internal processing speeds of up to 3 million instructions per second. Its custom
backlit LCD screen is not only easy to read on a dark stage, but also displays four simultaneous parameters so tweaking
programs in a hurry is not a problem. If things do get confusing, MidiVerb 4 offers online help prompts that will put you
at ease with programming questions. MidiVerb 4 also provides real time MIDI parameter control, program change and
bank change. MidiVerb 4 also features the new Auto Level Sensing feature. This proprietary technology allows you to
take advantage of MidiVerb 4's wide dynamic range. Using a footswitch or controls on the front panel, MidiVerb 4 will
"listen" to your signal, then automatically set the optimum input levels. If you need to get up and running in a hurry,
Auto Level Sensing will make sure you sound your best at lightning speed.
</ol>
<hr>
<h3>FEATURES</h3>
<ul>
<li>128 factory preset and 128 user-editable programs
<li>Auto Level Sensing for optimum input gain control
<li>Stereo, Dual Mono and Dual Stereo (Dual Channel Parallel Processing)
<li>18 bit 128x oversampling A/D and 18 bit 8x oversampling D/A converters, 20 bit DSP engine
<li>1/4" phone jack inputs and outputs (nominal -10 dBV, unbalanced)
<li>1.3 seconds total delay time available
<li>Rear panel footswitch for program advance, signal bypass, and Auto Level Sensing
<li>MIDI IN/OUT jacks with soft thru function
<li>Custom backlit LCD display for ease of programming
<li>Online help menus
<li>19" rack-mountable, single space
<li>Global Dry Defeat switch
</ul>

<h3>EFFECT SUBTYPES</h3>
<ul>
<li><b>Reverb Effects</b><br> Concert Hall, Real Room, Ambience, Plate Reverb, Reverse Reverb
<li><b>Delay Effects</b><br> Mono Delay, Stereo Delay, Ping Pong Delay, MultiTap Delay, BPM (Beat-Per-Minute) Mono Delay
<li><b>Pitch Effects</b><br> Stereo Chorus, Quad Chorus, Stereo Flange, Flange, Stereo Pitch Shifter
<li><b>Special Effects</b><br> Lezlie, Auto Pan
<li><b>Multiple Configurations</b>
<ul>
<li>DUAL MONO:<br> Delay:Delay, Chorus:Chorus, Flange:Flange, Pitch:Pitch, Chorus:Delay, Flange:Delay, Pitch:Delay
<li>DUAL STEREO:<br> Real Room:Delay, Real Room:Chorus, Real Room:Flange
<li>MULTIEFFECT:<br> Delay:Real Room, Chorus: Real Room, Flange:Real Room, Real Room:Flange, Chorus:Delay:Room, Flange: Delay: Room
</ul>
</ul>

<h3>SPECIFICATIONS</h3>
<ul>
<li><b>Frequency Response:</b> 20Hz to 20kHz, +1dB
<li><b>Dynamic Range:</b> >90dB A-weighted, 20Hz - 22kHz
<li><b>THD+Noise:</b> <0.009% @ 1kHz, nominal level (-12dBfs)
<li><b>Crosstalk:</b> <90dB below full scale
<li><b>A/D Conversion:</b> 18-bit Delta-Sigma, 128x oversampling
<li><b>D/A Conversion:</b> 18-bit Delta-Sigma, 8x oversampling
<li><b>Sampling Frequency:</b> 48kHz
<li><b>Internal Processing:</b> 3 million instructions per second
<li><b>Inputs:</b> 2 channels on 1/4" jacks. Nominal level - 10dBV unbalanced
<li><b>Outputs:</b> 2 channels on 1/4" jacks. Nominal level -20dBV or +4dBu, front panel adjustable, unbalanced
<li><b>Input Impedance:</b> 1MOhm/channel/stereo, 500kOhm/channel/mono
<li><b>Output Impedance:</b> 500 ohms
<li><b>Maximum Output Level:</b> +17.5dBu
<li><b>Preset Programs:</b> 128
<li><b>User Memory:</b> 128
<li><b>Front Panel:</b> Custom LCD, Value Wheel, Programming Buttons, Power
<li><b>Rear Panel:</b> Power jack, Footswitch jack, MIDI In, Out/Thru, Input L/R, Out L/R
<li><b>MIDI:</b> In, Out/Thru
<li><b>Power:</b> 9 VAC External transformer, UL and CSA Approved
<li><b>Dimensions:</b> (WxHxD) 19"x1.75"x7"
<li><b>Weight:</b> 4 lbs.
</ul>

<h3>APPLICATIONS</h3>
<ul>
<li>Recording studio, home studio, project studio
<li>Instrument rig
<li>Live sound reinforcement
<li>Special effects for broadcast and post-production
</ul>
<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>
























</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-227</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B009-27</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/vs880.html 194.10.201.200 19970122045133 text/html 10380
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:51:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 10174
Last-Modified: Sunday, 23-Jun-96 23:15:34 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>VS-880</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/roland.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/vs880.jpg">
<h1>V-Studio VS-880</h1>
<h2>Digital Studio Workstation</h2><hr>
<h3>With CD-quality sound and a price that you'll barely believe, the VS-880 is your complete digital studio in a box.</h3>
<h5>The VS-880 is a truly comprehensive digital studio workstation. It handles everything from data input
and recording to mixing and mastering in one compact unit. The VS-880 provides 64 recordable tracks,
a CD-quality digital recorder, a digital mixer and studio-quality multi-eKects (an add-on board option)
in a completely self-contained unit. And every operation is performed entirely within the digital domain.
The VS-880 offers a superb user interface which is specifically designed with the musician in mind.
Roland's musical instrument expertise means there's less of a "computer vibe," so it's easy to maintain
your creative flow. The VS-880 uses sophisticated data management within a "musician-friendly"
measure/beat system, while taking full advantage of the comprehensive MIDI functions.</h5>
<hr>
<h3>Records like a dream.</h3>

The VS-880 has eight discrete tracks and each of these has
eight "layers" of virtual tracks. So up to eight "takes" can be
recorded, per track, without recording over the previous
versions. This provides a total of 64 recording tracks, thus
eliminating track limitation worries. At final mix-down,
simply select the best take for each discrete track. You can
even compile the best parts from various takes to create
a perfect track. The sound quality of every take is perfect
because the VS-880 features high-quality 18-bit A/D and D/A
conversion. Selectable sampling rates include 48kHz, 44.1kHz
or 32kHz. You'll instantly appreciate the advantage of the fulldynamic range of digital audio and a frequency response that's
CD-quality. With digital recording there's no hiss, no wow and flutter, and no crosstalk. 
Recording with the VS-880 eliminates all the problems you used to have with
your analog
multitrack.
<p>
Recording time is also generous. For instance, at a 44.1kHz
sampling rate and recording on eight tracks using the built-in
540 Mbyte hard drive, recording time can be as much as
34 minutes. The VS-880 is a non-linear, random access
recorder/editor, so no memory is wasted on unused tracks
or blank sections within recorded tracks.
<hr>
<h3>No worries about ruining that perfect take.</h3>

With the VS-880's totally non-destructive recording and
editing, you can easily return to any pre-recorded or pre-edited
state. You can "Undo" up to 999 edits, even after conducting
multiple recording/editing sessions. To cancel the most recent
Undo, use Redo. You've got the creative choice to redo your
song from any desired point, instead of going back to the
beginning and starting all over. Unless that's what you want.
<hr>
<h3>The digital advantage -- total editing
freedom.</h3>

Since you're not using tape, you get the advantages of
non-linear, digital editing including copying, moving and
replacing. In much the same way you would use a sequencer
or word processor, you can cut, paste, move, insert or delete
any musical segment. And you'll never worry about erasing
the wrong section because you can simply "undo" any task
at any time. You can cut and paste on one track or on multiple
tracks, (like track bouncing on an analog machine) but
because it is digital the sound quality is always identical no
matter how many editing steps you perform. The VS-880 also
gives you incredible time control, which is very useful for
jingle and soundtrack projects. Compress or expand playback
time to a time length you can specify from 75% to 125% of
the original. Since these functions are performed in the digital
domain, the original playback pitch remains unafTected.
<hr>
<h3>Easier to edit than ever before.</h3>

Insert a "marker" any time in a Song. Since the VS-880
is a non-linear device, you can access any mark instantly.
Up to eight locate points can also be input and recalled using
convenient front-panel LOC buttons. You can actually input
up to 1,000 mark points per Song. These points can be
instantly recalled through the numeric keys. With the Preview/
Scrub function, you can execute a pin-point search for the
first notes or the beginning of a phrase, while you monitor.
<p>
All virtual track performance
data can be stored and named
as a Song, complete with
mixer, effects, mark and locate
settings. The VS-880 can store
up to 200 of these Songs.
<hr>
<h3>Full-featured digital mixing.</h3>

The VS-880 digital mixer features eight + six inputs, eight
recording busses, one stereo AUX send and one stereo master
output. A coaxial digital input accepts a stereo (two-channel
mono) digital signal. For interfacing with the analog world,
there are four audio inputs equipped with both 1/4" phone
jacks and RCA pins, with input sensitivity adjustable from line
level +4dBm to microphone level of -50dBm. You can record
up to six channels, including four analog and one digital
stereo source, simultaneously on four tracks. Using the digital
coax out, you can archive your final mixes to DAT, staying
within the digital domain for the entire recording process.
you want. 
<hr>
<h3>The power to mix the way you want.</h3>
For the simplest mixer/recorder configuration, place the VS-880
 in Input>Track mode. This gives you an eight channel
 mixer, with mixer channels and recorder tracks corresponding directly.
Using the Input Mix/Track Mix mode
turns the VS-880 into a 14-channel mixer capable of mixing
six inputs and eight recorded tracks at one time. You can sync sequence data from an external MIDI system,
along eight recorded tracks, for simultaneous playback
and mix-down right on the VS-880; no submixer required.
<p>
In keeping with its comprehensive design, the VS-880 has
a built-in parametric EQ. 
All your tonal Contouring is
represented on the display for
instant confirmation. In Input
> Track mode, EQ offers three bands -- High (Shelving),
Mid (Peaking) and Low (Shelving) and eight channels.
In Input Mix and Track Mix modes, a two-band (High and
Low), 14-channel EQ is available.
<hr>
<h3>Music-oriented mixing makes all the
difference.</h3>

Every mixer parameter setting, including internal routing and
EQ settings, can be captured as a "snapshot scene." Up to
eight scenes can be stored and switching scenes is as simple
as touching a button. Fader movements can be recorded with
an external MIDI sequencer for fully automated mix-downs.
<hr>
<h3>Studio effects included.</h3>

Eliminate the need for external outboard effects by installing
the optional VS8F-1 Effect Expansion Board. This board
provides two completely independent stereo multi-effects
processors. The powerful option lets you control every aspect
of your recording without ever leaving the digital domain.
<p>
The VS8F-1 Effect Expansion Board features 200 patches (100
preset and 100 user) based on 20 resident algorithms. The
studio-quality digital effects range from essentials like reverb
and stereo delay to unusual, sophisticated effects like Roland
Sound Space 3-D delay and chorus. Two stereo effects can be
used simultaneously with completely independent control.
<p>
To keep guitarists happy, Roland has included a collection of
essential guitar effects, like overdrive and distortion, as well as
a COSM-based guitar amp simulator. Just plug in your electric
guitar, to gain access to professional-quality recording effects
in your home studio. Other "chained" effects are included for
specific applications. For instance, you can apply enhancer,
reverb, EQ and even vocoder effects to vocals. Built-in AUX
send jacks enable outboard effects processing as well.
<hr>
<h3>Use the storage media of your choice.</h3>

The VS-880 is equipped to use just about any storage media.
There's an internal IDE interface so you can install a 2.5"
IDE hard drive of your preferred storage capacity.
<p>
A SCSI interface allows you to daisy-chain up to seven SCSI
extemal storage devices, so you can do all the backups you
want, as well as recording and playing back songs. Popular
new high-capacity removable media devices, like the
100 Mbyte Iomega Zip Drive, are more affordable than ever.
With these you can economically exchange enormous
amounts of data, just as you would with an ordinary cassette.
You can even make song data backups on audio DAT.

<hr>
<h3>Operation that's optimized for musicians.</h3>

Absolute time references are useful, but most musicians prefer
to think in measures, not time. With the VS-880 you can refer
to both. Being able to refer to measures and beats makes for
easier production because it is a more musical process. Like
MIDI sequence editing, you can punch-in from the 2nd beat
of measure 5 or copy measure 3 to measure 5. These word
processor-like functions add a whole new dimension to
multitrack recording.
<p>
The MIDI In and Out connectors let you sync the VS-880
with a MIDI sequencer, either as master or slave.
Synchronization can be through MIDI Time Code (MTC)
or MIDI Machine Control (MMC).
<p>
You can record mixer settings and fader movements into
a MIDI sequencer. Playing the sequence back, in sync with
the VS-880, affords fully automated mix-down capabilities.
The VS-880 has a MIDI Clock-dedicated track independent
of the main tracks, so you can even sync to a non-MTC/
MMC compatible sequencer. Stack two VS-880s via MIDI
and you'll get a digital recording system with 16 discrete
tracks and as many as 128 total tracks.
<p>
The LCD provides bar indications so you can intuitively edit
level, pan and fader settings, in addition to quickly confirming
track recording status. The playlist display shows data recorded
on the tracks, so you can check data and edit easily.
<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>


























</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-228</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA087-000630-B009-370</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/~hit_run/caerts/pulse.html 194.10.201.200 19970122045535 text/html 2461
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 22-Jan-97 05:55:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2256
Last-Modified: Friday, 15-Nov-96 02:40:16 GMT
</DOCHDR>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>Waldorf Pulse</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<BODY BACKGROUNDCOLOR="ffffff" TEXT="#000000"  background="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/logoback.gif">
<img align=right src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/waldorf.gif">
<img align=top src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/pulse.jpg">
<h1>Pulse</h1>
<hr>
From the heart of Germany, for your high-cal synthesis
stew. No more digital diets, the real deal instead of
virtual simulators. Three heavy-weight oscillators with
creamy pulsewith modulation. sumo-style sync and
tasty cross-modulation, topped off with a healthy
serving of 24dB filtering, will satisfy your appetite and
get those creative juices flowing. And a side order of 2
envelopes, 2 LFOs and for added flavor, a spice rack full
of modu-ations, round out this aural feast.
<h3>Say goodbye to lean cuisine and experience the
fat attack. Get heavy with the Waldorf Pulse!</h3><hr>
<h2>You want even more?</h2>
There are musicians who would like to have even more
features than the Pulse offers. For those people, we
created the <b>Waldorf Pulse Plus</b>.
Firstly, it offers an audio input for processing external
signals with the filter and amplifier modules of the Pulse
Plus. The adjustable gain guarantees that any signal, no
matter if it is a guitar chord or drum sound, can be
modified, and even overdriven. The gain can also be
modified by the Pulse's modulation sources (like LFOs,
envelopes etc.) which offers lots of interesting
combinations when mixed to the oscillator signals of
the Pulse Plus. Furthermore, the Pulse Plus features a
CV/gate input for controlling it through an external
analog step sequencer. Last but not least, the Pulse Plus
has a gate output combined with two separate CV
outputs for controlling pre-MIDI synthesizers. The first
CV output is used as pitch control while the second CV
out can be controlled by any of the modulation sources
the Pulse Plus offers. So you can not only control the
notes of your old synth but also its filter, amplifier or
any other module that offers a CV input.

<hr>
<a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/index.html"><img align=bottom src="http://www.knooppunt.be/~hit_run/caerts/home.gif"></a> 
</BODY></HTML>


























</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-229</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B032-134</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107161655 text/html 1429
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 17:16:21 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1273
</DOCHDR>
sustainable development news
<TITLE> sustainable development news </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.11>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40 checked> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. A space is OR. 
	If no connectors are used, full matches are marked with '*'
	and displayed first. You can also use AND and NOT to in/exclude 
	words.  Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)
	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.11>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-230</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B039-389</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107183803 text/html 4474
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:37:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4318
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 3579 records<br>

1  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=1"> 0 19  </a>
2  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=2"> 75 19960619 Re: LEAP DAY WARNING</a>
3  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3"> 11 19960623 Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)</a>
4  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=4"> 27 19960623 Re: Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)</a>
5  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=5"> 34 19960623 Re: Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)</a>
6  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=6"> 0 19960623 </a>
7  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=7"> 0 19960623 </a>
8  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=8"> 1661 19960702 ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ</a>
9  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=9"> 34 19960703 Re: ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ</a>
10  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=10"> 43 19960704 Re: ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ</a>
11  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=11"> 23 19960705 neue Gruppe at.umwelt?</a>
12  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=12"> 47 19960531 Festival Mundial</a>
13  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=13"> 135 19960628 Re: Standpunt bepaling</a>
14  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=14"> 24 19960628 Re: Standpunt bepaling</a>
15  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=15"> 25 19960628 Re: Standpunt bepaling</a>
16  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=16"> 50 19960605 Mitsubishi Campaign - Rainforest Ac</a>
17  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=17"> 31 19960609 UFW Strawberry Boycott?</a>
18  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=18"> 28 19960616 ANTI-Boycott of Disney</a>
19  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=19"> 131 19960617 BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE - TEST FOR BOY</a>
20  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=20"> 130 19960617 BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE --</a>
21  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=21"> 46 19960621 Boise Cascade in Mexico</a>
22  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=22"> 378 19960626 Burma oil campaign</a>
23  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=23"> 82 19960528 Action Alert</a>
24  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=24"> 43 19960528 update: another prisoner sentenced</a>
25  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=25"> 65 19960530 Warren Christopher SAMPLE LETTER</a>
26  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=26"> 170 19960602 Haiti Info v.4 #15 IMF IN HAITI</a>
27  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=27"> 112 19960604 Privitization Splits Peruvians</a>
28  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=28"> 144 19960531 IPS: D'GAP FORUM ON ALTERNATIVES TO</a>
29  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=29"> 119 19960531 IPS: Mexican Recovery?</a>
30  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=30"> 106 19960531 IPS: Skepticism Over "Mexican Recov</a>
31  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=31"> 145 19960531 IPS: Globalization Batters Canada</a>
32  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=32"> 118 19960531 IPS: SAPs Batter Central America</a>
33  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=33"> 87 19960603 New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export</a>
34  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=34"> 33 19960604 update on Oventic</a>
35  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=35"> 388 19960604 International Call to Chiapas(Spani</a>
36  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=36"> 126 19960607 IPS: Opening on SAPs?</a>
37  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=37"> 149 19960607 IPS: Venezuela Formally Surrenders</a>
38  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=38"> 74 19960610 IPS: Differing Views of Globalizati</a>
39  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=39"> 83 19960610 IPS: Kenya Cooks Books</a>
40  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=40"> 63 19960610 IPS: NAFTA= + Unemployment, -Wages</a>
<hr>1-40/3579    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=3561-3600">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-231</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B021-16</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108145123 text/html 2858
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:50:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2700
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Somewhere@aol.com
Newsgroups: at.general
Subject: Re: LEAP DAY WARNING
Date: 19 Jun 1996 04:23:18

What the hell
In article  4h6s23$7lk@news.mel.aone.net.au , triffid@b022.aone.net.au 
(Malcolm) wrote:
>byker.sands@s054.aone.net.au (Steve Cornelius) wrote:
>
>>In article  4gmuoa$65k@geraldo.cc.utexas.edu ,
>>   terrymoore@mail.utexas.edu (terrymoore) wrote:
>
>>>Geeze!!! My birthday is attracting attention!!! I'm flattered.
>>>
>>>If my memory serves me correctly, it will be eight more years before
>>>I have another birthday observance.
>>>
>>>Terry in Pflugerville
>
>>I think you will find that although century years are generally not leap 
>>years, those which are divisible by 400 are. So 1900 wasn't but 2000 will be. 
>>But I could be wrong.
>
>        My fellow you are spot on... we just had a HUGE thread going yesterday
>about this (at work) and the results were ..
>
>        A leap year is any year that is:
>
>         Divisable by 4                         (is)
>
>                unless
>
>        it is a centesimal year (ie ends in 00)         (isn't)
>
>                unless
>
>        the centesimal year is divisable by 400 (is)
>
>                unless
>
>        the leap year is a centesimal           (isn't)
>        year which is divisable by 4000
>
>
>        have we got all that... :-)
>
>        Sources range from encyclopedias (sp?) to maths gurus (who calculated
>everything to the second)...
>
>>Steve Cornelius
>>Sydney, Australia
>>byker.sands@s054.aone.net.au
>
>
>        yf
>        malcolm
>
>--
>_________________________________________________________________________
>
>| | | | | |   Malcolm Thompson      |Phone:               +61 7 3364 9999
>| | | | | |   Accountant            |Fax:                 +61 7 3394 2844
>| | | | | |   Corporate Services    |Direct:              +61 7 3364 9835
>| | | | | |   Mincom Pty Ltd        |E-mail(w):       malcolmt@mincom.com
>| | | | | |   Brisbane, QLD         |      (h):  triffid@b022.aone.net.au
>|M|I|N|C|O|M  Australia             |Home Page:     <a href=http://www.mincom.com>http://www.mincom.com</a>
>_________________________________________________________________________
>
>A computer lets you make more mistakes faster than any invention in
>human history--with the possible exceptions of handguns and tequila.
> - Mitch Ratcliffe, _Technology Review_, April, 1992
>
.
<hr>1/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-232</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B021-66</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108145208 text/html 1613
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:51:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1455
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Augusto Zuniga  gecex@gslink.com 
Newsgroups: soc.culture.cuba,soc.culture.latin-america,soc.culture.mexican,soc.culture.mexican.american,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.chile,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.uruguay,soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.colombia,soc.rights.human,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.china,soc.culture.australian,soc.culture.burma,soc.culture.filipino,soc.culture.ecuador,soc.culture.australia,alt.taiwan.republic,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.british,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.greek,soc.culture.italian,soc.culture.netherlands,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.swis,at.infosystems,at.general,nl.misc,uk.politics.constitution,soc.culture.irish,alt.politics.british,uk.misc,uk.politics,can.politics,scot.general,nz.general,aus.politics,soc.culture.welsh,soc.culture.scottish
Subject: Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)
Date: Sun, 23 Jun 1996 00:05:11 -0300

<a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
<a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
<a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>

.
<hr>2/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-233</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B021-108</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108145252 text/html 2129
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:52:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1971
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: William Briesemaster  wbriesem@parker.bio.uci.edu 
Newsgroups: soc.culture.cuba,soc.culture.latin-america,soc.culture.mexican,soc.culture.mexican.american,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.chile,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.uruguay,soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.colombia,soc.rights.human,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.china,soc.culture.australian,soc.culture.burma,soc.culture.filipino,soc.culture.ecuador,soc.culture.australia,alt.taiwan.republic,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.british,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.greek,soc.culture.italian,soc.culture.netherlands,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.swis,at.infosystems,at.general,nl.misc,uk.politics.constitution,soc.culture.irish,alt.politics.british,uk.misc,uk.politics,can.politics,scot.general,nz.general,aus.politics,soc.culture.welsh,soc.culture.scottish
Subject: Re: Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)
Date: Sun, 23 Jun 1996 05:41:55 -0700



On Sun, 23 Jun 1996, Augusto Zuniga set the ALL TIME record for cross 
posting by wasting sooooooo much bandwidth with these three lines:

> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
> 

	Was there really a point to this?

				Wm Briesemaster

 =================  *//  Al Bundy for President in 96!  \\*  ===============

      I once thought married with children was the most idiotic thing ever 
	broadcast, but of course that was before I got married myself.


.
<hr>3/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-234</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B021-143</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108145335 text/html 2316
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:52:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2158
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: mikepat@jumppoint.com (Michael Paterson)
Newsgroups: soc.culture.cuba,soc.culture.latin-america,soc.culture.mexican,soc.culture.mexican.american,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.chile,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.uruguay,soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.colombia,soc.rights.human,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.china,soc.culture.australian,soc.culture.burma,soc.culture.filipino,soc.culture.ecuador,soc.culture.australia,alt.taiwan.republic,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.british,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.greek,soc.culture.italian,soc.culture.netherlands,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.swis,at.infosystems,at.general,nl.misc,uk.politics.constitution,soc.culture.irish,alt.politics.british,uk.misc,uk.politics,can.politics,scot.general,nz.general,aus.politics,soc.culture.welsh,soc.culture.scottish
Subject: Re: Ecuador (arcilla,Arena,Oro)
Date: Sun, 23 Jun 1996 20:23:21 GMT

William Briesemaster  wbriesem@parker.bio.uci.edu  wrote:



>On Sun, 23 Jun 1996, Augusto Zuniga set the ALL TIME record for cross 
>posting by wasting sooooooo much bandwidth with these three lines:

>> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
>> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
>> <a href=http://www.gecex.com>http://www.gecex.com</a>
>> 

>	Was there really a point to this?

>				Wm Briesemaster

> =================  *//  Al Bundy for President in 96!  \\*  ===============

>      I once thought married with children was the most idiotic thing ever 
>	broadcast, but of course that was before I got married myself.

Wm. Briesemaster compounded the offence by sending all the additional
garbage above.

Mìcheil Rob MacPhàdruig
Drùidh:duine-uasal

.
<hr>4/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-235</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B021-254</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108145603 text/html 73138
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:54:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at
Newsgroups: comp.unix.questions,comp.unix.admin,comp.windows.x,comp.std.internat,comp.software.international,at.general,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.latin-american,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.mexico,soc.culture.colombia,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.chile,soc.culture.italian,bit.listserv.catala,comp.answers,soc.answers,news.answers
Subject: ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ
Date: 2 Jul 1996 07:43:56 GMT

Archive-name: internationalization/iso-8859-1-charset
Posting-Frequency: monthly
Version: 2.9888


		  ISO 8859-1  National Character Set FAQ

			  Michael K. Gschwind 

                       mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at 


DISCLAIMER: THE AUTHOR MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WITH REGARD TO
THIS MATERIAL, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Note: Most of this was tested on a Sun 10, running SunOS 4.1.* - other
systems might differ slightly

This FAQ discusses topics related to the use of ISO 8859-1 based 8 bit
character sets. It discusses how to use European (Latin American)
national character sets on UNIX-based systems and the Internet.

If you need to use a character set other than ISO 8859-1, much of
what is described here will be of interest to you.  However, you will
need to find appropriate fonts for your character set (see section 17)
and input mechanisms adapted to you language.



1. Which coding should I use for accented characters?  
Use the internationally standardized ISO-8859-1 character set to type
accented characters. This character set contains all characters
necessary to type all major (West) European languages.  This encoding
is also the preferred encoding on the Internet.  ISO 8859-X character
sets use the characters 0xa0 through 0xff to represent national
characters, while the characters in the 0x20-0x7f range are those used
in the US-ASCII (ISO 646) character set.  Thus, ASCII text is a proper
subset of all ISO 8859-X character sets.

The characters 0x80 through 0x9f are earmarked as extended control
chracters, and are not used for encoding characters.  These characters
are not currently used to specify anything.  A practical reason for
this is interoperability with 7 bit devices (or when the 8th bit gets
stripped by faulty software).  Devices would then interpret the character
as some control character and put the device in an undefined state.
(When the 8th bit gets stripped from the characters at 0xa0 to 0xff, a
wrong character is represented, but this cannot change the state of a
terminal or other device.)

This character set is also used by AmigaDOS, MS-Windows, VMS (DEC MCS
is practically equivalent to ISO 8859-1) and (practically all) UNIX
implementations.  MS-DOS normally uses a different character set and
is not compatible with this character set. (It can, however, be
translated to this format with various tools. See section 5.)

Footnote: Supposedly, IBM code page 819 is fully ISO 8859-1 compliant.


ISO 8859-1 supports the following languages:
Afrikaans, Basque, Catalan, Danish, Dutch, English, Faeroese, Finnish,
French, Galician, German, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Norwegian,
Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish.

(Reportedly, Welsh cannot be handled due to missing \^{w} and \^{y}.)

(It has been called to my attention that Albanian can be written with
ISO 8859-1 also.  However, from a standards point of view, ISO 8859-2
is the appropriate character set for Balkan countries.)

ISO 8859-1 is just one part of the ISO-8859 standard, which specifies
several character sets:
8859-1	Europe, Latin America, Caribbean, Canada, Africa
8859-2  Eastern Europe
8859-3  SE Europe/miscellaneous (Esperanto, Maltese, etc.) 
8859-4  Scandinavia/Baltic (mostly covered by 8859-1 also)
8859-5  Cyrillic
8859-6  Arabic
8859-7  Greek 
8859-8  Hebrew
8859-9  Latin5, same as 8859-1 except for Turkish instead of Icelandic
8859-10 Latin6, for Lappish/Nordic/Eskimo languages

Unicode is advantageous because one character set suffices to encode
all the world's languages, however very few programs (and even fewer
operating systems) support wide characters. Thus, only 8 bit wide
character sets (such as the ISO 8859-X) can be used with these
systems.  Unfortunately, some programmers still insist on using the
`spare' eigth bit for clever tricks, crippling these programs such
that they can process only US-ASCII characters.


Footnote: Some people have complained about missing characters,
          e.g. French users about a missing 'oe'.  Note that oe is 
          not a character, but a typographical ligature (a combination of two
          characters for typographical purposes).  Ligatures are not 
          part of the ISO 8859-X standard.  (Although 'oe' used to 
          be in the draft 8859-1 standard before it was unmasked as
          `mere' ligature.)

          Two stories exist for the removal of the oe:
          (1) argues that in the final session, the French admitted
              that oe was only a ligature.  This prompted the
              committee to remove it.
          (2) argues that the French member missed the session and the
              members from the other countries simply decided to
              remove it.  (If this is true, where were the Swiss and 
              Belgians?)

          Note that the oe ligature is different from the 'historical
          ligature' æ which is now considered a letter in Nordic
          countries and cannot be replaced by the the latters 'ae'.

A semi-official statement about the missing oe:
4.  The present part 1 reflects the position of AFNOR of 1987. It may be
    that this is regretted now, but no action can be taken before AFNOR
    makes clear what it wants now. Canada may try to convince AFNOR
    that something should be done, but as far I know the SC2-FRANCE is
    no longer active. They do not respond to letter ballots, nor to
    E-mail.


2. Getting your terminal to handle ISO characters.
Terminal drivers normally do not pass 8 bit characters. To enable
proper handling of ISO characters, add the following lines to your
..cshrc:
----------------------------------
tty -s
if ($status == 0) stty cs8 -istrip -parenb 
----------------------------------
If you don't use csh, add equivalent code to your shell's start up
file.  

Note that it is necessary to check whether your standard I/O streams
are connected to a terminal. Only then should you reconfigure the
terminal driver.  Note that tty checks stdin, but stty changes stdout.
This is OK in normal code, but if the .cshrc is executed in a pipe,
you may get spurious warnings :-(

If you use the Bourne Shell or descendants (sh, ksh, bash,
zsh), use this code in your startup (e.g. .profile) file:
----------------------------------
tty -s
if [ $? = 0 ]; then
        stty cs8 -istrip -parenb >&0
fi
----------------------------------

Footnote: In the /bin/sh version, we redirect stdout to stdin, so both
tty and stty operate on stdin.  This resolves the problem discussed in
the /bin/csh script version.  A possible workaround is to use the
following code in .cshrc, which spawns a Bourne shell (/bin/sh) to
handle the redirection:
----------------------------------
tty -s
if ($status == 0) sh -c "stty cs8 -istrip -parenb >&0"
----------------------------------



3. Getting the locale setting right.
For the ctype macros (and by extension, applications you are running
on your system) to correctly identify accented characters, you
may have to set the ctype locale to an ISO 8859-1 conforming
configuration. On SunOS, this may be done by placing
------------------------------------
setenv LANG C
setenv LC_CTYPE iso_8859_1
------------------------------------
in your .login script (if you use the csh). An equivalent statement
will adjust the ctype locale for non-csh users.

The process is the same for other operating systems, e.g. on HP/UX use
'setenv LANG german.iso88591'; on IRIX 5.2 use 'setenv LANG de'; on Ultrix 4.3
use 'setenv LANG GER_DE.8859' and on OSF/1 use 'setenv LANG
de_DE.88591'.  The examples given here are for German.  Other
languages work too, depending on your operating system.  Check out
'man setlocale' on your system for more information.

*****If you can confirm or deny this, please let me know.*****
Currently, each system vendor has his own set of locale names, which
makes portability a bit problematic.  Supposedly there is some X/Open
document specifying a

	 language _ country . character_encoding 

syntax for environment variables specifying a locale, but I'm unable
to confirm this.  

While many vendors know use the  language _ country  encoding, there
are many different encodings for languages and countries. 

Many vendors seem to use some derivative of this encoding:
It looks as if  language  is the two-letter code for the language from
ISO 639, and  country  is the two-letter code for the country from ISO
3166, but I don't know of any standard specifying  character_encoding .

An appropriate name source for the  character_encoding  part of the
locale name would be to use the character set names specified in RFC
1345 which contains names for all standardized character sets.
(Preferably, the canonical name and all aliases should be accepted,
with the canonical name being the first choice.)  Using this
well-known character set repository as name source would bring an end
to conflicting names, without the need to introduce yet another
character set directory with the inherent dangers of inconsistency and
duplicated effort.
*****If you can confirm or deny this, please let me know.*****



Footnote on HP/UX systems:
As of 10.0, you can use either german.iso88591 or de_DE.iso88591 (a
name more in line with other vendors and developing standards for
locale names).  For a complete listing of locale names, see the text
file /usr/lib/nls/config.  Or, on HP-UX 10.0, execute locale -a . This
command will list all locales currently installed on your system.



4. Selecting the right font under X11 for xterm (and other applications)
To actually display accented characters, you need to select a font
which does contains bit maps for ISO 8859-1 characters in the
correct character positions. The names of these fonts normally
have the suffix "iso8859-1". Use the command
# xlsfonts 
to list the fonts available on your system. You can preview a
particular font with the 
# xfd -fn  fontname 
command.

Add the appropriate font selection to your ~/.Xdefaults file, e.g.:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
XTerm*Font: -adobe-courier-medium-r-normal--18-180-75-75-m-110-iso8859-1
Mosaic*XmLabel*fontList: -*-helvetica-bold-r-normal-*-14-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

While X11 is farther than most system software when it comes to
internationalization, it still contains many bugs.  A number of bug
fixes can be found at URL <a href=http://www.dtek.chalmers.se:80/~maf/i18n/.>http://www.dtek.chalmers.se:80/~maf/i18n/.</a>

Footnote: The X11R5 distribution has some fonts which are labeled as
ISO fonts, but which contain only the US-ASCII characters. 



5. Translating between different international character sets.
While ISO 8859-1 is an international standard, not everybody uses this
encoding. Many computers use their own, vendor-specific character sets
(most notably Microsoft for MS-DOS).  If you want to edit or view files
written in different encoding, you will have to translate them to an
ISO 8859-1 based representation. 

There are several PD/free character set translators available on the
Internet, the most notable being 'recode'.  recode is available from
URL ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/u2/emacs.  recode is covered by FSF
copyright and is freely redistributable.  

The general format of the program call is one of:

recode [OPTION]... [BEFORE]:[AFTER] [FILE]

The second form is the common case.  Each FILE will be read assuming
it is coded with charset BEFORE, it will be recoded over itself so to
use the charset AFTER.  If there is no such FILE, the program rather
acts as a filter and recode standard input to standard output.

Some recodings are not reversible, so after you have converted the
file (recode overwrites the original file with the new version!), you
may never be able to recontruct the original file.  A safer way of
changing the encoing of a file is to use the filter mechanism of
recode and invoke it as follows:

recode [OPTION]... [BEFORE]:[AFTER]  [OLDFILE]  [NEWFILE]

Under SunOS, the dos2unix and unix2dos programs (distributed with
SunOS) will translate between MS-DOS and ISO 8859-1 formats.

It is somewhat more difficult to convert German, `Duden'-conformant
Ersatzdarstellung (ä = ae, ß = ss or sz etc.)  into the ISO 8859-1
character set.  The German dictionary available as URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/dicts/deutsch.tar.gz also
contains a UNIX shell script which can handle all conversions except
ones involving ß (German scharfes-s), as for `ss' this change is more
complicated.

A more sophisticated program to translate Duden Ersatzdarstellung to
ISO 8859-1 is Gustaf Neumann's diac program (version 1.3 or later)
which can translate all ASCII sequences to their respective ISO 8859-1
character set representation.  'diac' is available as URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/diac.

Translating ISO 8859-1 to ASCII can be performed with a little sed
script according to your needs.  But be aware that
* No one-to-one mapping between Latin 1 and ASCII strings is possible.
* Text layout may be destroyed by multi-character substitutions,
  especially in tables.
* Different replacements may be in use for different languages,
  so no single standard replacement table will make everyone happy.
* Truncation or line wrapping might be necessary to fit textual data
  into fields of fixed width.
* Reversing this translation may be difficult or impossible.
* You may be introducing ambiguities into your data.



6. Printing accented characters.

6.1 PostScript printers
If you want to print accented characters on a postscript printer, you
may need a PS filter which can handle ISO characters. 

Our Postscript filter of choice is a2ps, the more recent version of
which can handle ISO 8859-1 characters with the -8 option.  a2ps V4.3
is available as URL ftp://imag.imag.fr/archive/postscript/a2ps.V4.3.tar.gz.

If you use the pps postscript filter, use the 'pps -ISO' option for
pps to handle ISO 8859-1 characters properly.


6.2 Other (non-PS) printers:
If you want to print to non-PS printers, your success rate depends on
the encoding the printer uses. Several alternatives are possible:

* Your printer accepts ISO 8859-1:
  You're lucky. No conversion is needed, just send your files to the
  printer. 


* You printer supports a PC-compatible font:
  You can use the recode tool to translate from ISO 8859-1 to this
  encoding. (If you are using a SunOS based computer, you can also use
  the unix2dos utility which is part of the standard distribution.)
  Just add the appropriate invocation as a built-in filter to your
  printer driver.   

  At our site, we use the following configuration to print ISO 8859-1
  characters on an IBM Proprinter XL :

  /etc/printcap

lp|isolp|Line Printer with ISO-8859-1:\
        :lp=/dev/null:\
        :sd=/usr/spool/lpd/lp:mx#0:if=/usr/spool/lpd/iso2dos.sh:rs:
rawlp|Lineprinter:\
	:lp=:rm=lphost.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at:rp=lp:sd=/usr/spool/lpd/rawlp:rs:

  /usr/spool/lpd/iso2dos.sh

#!/bin/sh
if /usr/local/gnu/bin/recode latin-1:ibm-pc | /usr/ucb/lpr -Prawlp
then
  exit 0
else
  exit -1
fi

  
* Your printer uses a national ISO 646 variant (7 bit ASCII
  with some special characters replaced by national characters):
  You will have to use a translation tool; this tool would
  then be installed in the printer driver and translate character
  conventions before sending a file to the printer.  The recode
  program supports many national ISO 646 norms.  (If you add do
  this, please submit it to the maintainers of recode, so that it can
  benefit everybody.)
  
  Unfortunately, you will not be able to display all characters with 
  the built-in characters set. Most printers have user-definable
  bit-map characters, which you can use to print all ISO characters. 
  You just have to generate a pix-map for any particular character and
  send this bitmap to the printer.  The syntax for these characters
  varies, but a few conventions have gained universal acceptance
  (e.g., many printers can process Epson-compatible escape sequences).


* Your printer supports a strange format:
  If your printer supports some other strange format (e.g. HP Roman8,
  DEC MCS, Atari, NeXTStep, EBCDIC or what have you), you have to add a
  filter which will translate ISO 8859-1 to this encoding before
  sending your data to the printer.  'recode' supports many of these
  character sets already.  If you have to write your own conversion 
  tool, consider this as a good starting base. (If you add support for
  any new character sets, please submit your code changes to the
  maintainers of recode).

  If your printer supports DEC MCS, this is nearly equivalent to ISO 
  8859-1 (actually, it is a former ISO 8859-1 draft standard. The only
  characters which are missing are the Icelandic characters (eth and
  thorn) at locations 0xD0, 0xF0, 0xDE and 0xFE) - the difference is
  only a few characters.  You could probably get by with just sending
  ISO 8859-1 to the printer. 


* Your printer supports ASCII only:
  You have several options:
  + If your printer supports user-defined characters, you can print all
    ISO characters not supported by ASCII by sending the appropriate
    bitmaps.  You will need a filter to convert ISO 8859-1 characters
    to the appropriate bitmaps.  (A good starting point would be recode.)
  + Add a filter to the printer driver which will strip the accent
    characters and just print the unaccented characters. (This
    character set is supported by recode under the name `flat' ASCII.)
  + Add a filter which will generate escape sequences (such as 
    "  BACKSPACE  a for Umlaut-a (ä), etc.) to be printed.  Recode 
    supports this encoding under the name `ascii-bs'.

Footnote: For more information on character translation and the
'recode' tool, see section 5.



7. TeX and ISO 8859-1
If you want to write TeX without having to type {\"a}-style escape
sequences, you can either get a TeX versions configured to read 8-bit
ISO characters, or you can translate between ISO and TeX codings.

The latter is arduous if done by hand, but can be automated if you use
emacs. If you use Emacs 19.23 or higher, simply add the following line
to your .emacs startup file. This mode will perform the necessary
translations for you automatically:
------------------
(require 'iso-cvt)
------------------

If you are using pre-19.23 versions of emacs, get the "gm-lingo.el"
lisp file via URL ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit.  Load
gm-lingo from your .emacs startup file and this mode will perform the
necessary translations for you automatically.

If you want to configure TeX to read 8 bit characters, check out the
configuration files available in URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit.

In LaTeX 2.09 (or earlier), use the isolatin or isolatin1 styles to
include support for ISO latin1 characters.  Use the following
documentstyle definition: 
\documentstyle[isolatin]{article}

isolatin.sty and isolatin1 are available from all CTAN servers and
from URL ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit. (The isolatin1
version on vlsivie is more complete than the one on CTAN servers.)

There are several possibilities in LaTeX 2e to provide comprehensive
support for 8 bit characters:

The preferred method is to use the inputenc package with the latin1
option.  Use the following package invocation to achieve this:
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}

The inputenc package should be the first package to be included in the
document.  For a more detailed discussion, check out URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie/tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/latex2e.ps (in German).

Alternatively, the styles used for earlier LaTeX versions (see above)
can also be used with 2e.  To do this, use the commands:
\documentclass{article} 
\usepackage{isolatin}


You can also get the latex-mode to handle opening and closing quotes
correctly for your language.  This can be achieved by defining the
emacs variables 'tex-open-quote' and 'tex-closing-quote'.  You can
either set these varaibles in your ~/.emacs startup file or as a
buffer-local variable in your TeX file if you want to define quotes on
a per-file basis.

For German TeX quotes, use:
-----------
(setq tex-open-quote "\"`")
(setq tex-closing-quote "'\"")
-----------

If you want to use French quotes (guillemets), use:
-----------
(setq tex-open-quote "«")
(setq tex-closing-quote "»")
-----------

Bibtex has some problems with 8 bit characters, esp. when they are
used as keys.  BibTeX 1.0, when it eventually comes out (most likely
some time in 1996), will support 8-bit characters.



8. ISO 8859-1 and emacs
Emacs 19 (as opposed to Emacs 18) can automatically handle 8 bit
characters. (If you have a choice, upgrade to Emacs version 19.23,
which has the most complete ISO support.)  Emacs 19 has extensive
support for ISO 8859-1. If your display supports ISO 8859-1 encoded
characters, add the following line to your .emacs startup file:
-----------------------------
(standard-display-european t)
-----------------------------

If want to display ISO-8859-1 encoded files by using TeX-like escape
sequences (e.g. if your terminal supports only ASCII characters), you
should  add the following line to your .emacs file (DON'T DO THIS IF
YOUR TERMINAL SUPPORTS ISO OR SOME OTHER ENCODING OF NATIONAL
CHARACTERS): 
--------------------
(require 'iso-ascii)
--------------------

If your terminal supports a non-ISO 8859-1 encoding of national
characters (e.g. 7 bit national variant ISO 646 character sets,
aka. `national ASCII' variants), you should configure your own display
table.  The standard emacs distribution contains a configuration
(iso-swed.el) for terminals which have ASCII in the G0 set and a
Swedish/Finnish version of ISO 646 in the G1 set.  If you want to
create your own display table configuration, take a look at this
sample configuration and at disp-table.el for available support
functions.


Emacs can also accept 8 bit ISO 8859-1 characters as input. These
character codes might either come from a national keyboard (and
driver) which generates ISO-compliant codes, or may have been entered
by use  of a COMPOSE-character mechanism. 
If you use such an input format, execute the following expression in
your .emacs startup file to enable Emacs to understand them:
-------------------------------------------------
     (set-input-mode (car (current-input-mode))
                     (nth 1 (current-input-mode))
                     0)
-------------------------------------------------

In order to configure emacs to handle commands operating on words
properly (such as 'Beginning of word', etc.), you should also add the
following line to your .emacs startup file:
-------------------------------
(require 'iso-syntax)
-------------------------------

This lisp script will change character attributes such that ISO 8859-1
characters are recognized as such by emacs.


For further information on using ISO 8859-1 with emacs, also see the
Emacs manual section on "European Display" (available as hypertext
document by typing C-h i in emacs or as a printed version).


If you need to edit text in a non-European language(Arabic, Chinese,
Cyrillic-based languages, Ethiopic, Korean, Thai, Vietnamese, etc.),
MULE (URL ftp://etlport.etl.go.jp/pub/mule) is a Multilingual
Enhancement to GNU Emacs which supports these languages.



9. Typing ISO with US-style keyboards.  
Many computer users use US-ASCII keyboards, which do not have keys for
national characters.  You can use escape sequences to enter these
characters.  For ASCII terminals (or PCs), check the documentation of
your terminal for particulars.


9.1 US-keyboards under X11 
Under X Windows, the COMPOSE multi-language support key can be used to
enter accented characters.  Thus, when running X11 on a SunOS-based
computer (or any other X11R4 or X11R5 server supporting COMPOSE
characters), you can type three character sequences such as
COMPOSE " a -> ä
COMPOSE s s -> ß
COMPOSE ` e -> è
to type accented characters.

Note that this COMPOSE capability has been removed as of X11R6,
because it does not adequately support all the languages in the world.
Instead, compose processing is supposed to be performed in the client
using an `input method', a mechanism which has been available since
X11R5.  (In the short term, this is a step backward for European
users, as few clients support this type of processing at the moment.
It is unfortunate that the X Consortium did not implement a mechanism
which allows for a smoother transition.  Even the xterm terminal
emulator supplied by the X Consortium itself does not yet support this
mechanism!)

Input methods are controlled by the locale environment variables (LANG
and LC_xxx).  The values for these variables are (or at least, should be
made equivalent by any sane vendor) equivalent to those expected by
the ANSI/POSIX locale library.  For a list of possible settings see
section 3. 



9.2 US-keyboards and emacs
9.2.1 Using ALT for composing national characters 
There are several modes to enter Umlaut characters under emacs when
using a US-style keyboard.  One such mode is iso-transl, which is
distributed with the standard emacs distribution.  This mode uses the
Alt-key for entering diacritical marks (accents et al.).  

To activate iso-transl mode, add the following line to your .emacs
setup file:
(require 'iso-transl)

As of emacs 19.29, Alt-sequences optimized for a particular language
are available.  Use the following call in .emacs to select your
favorite keybindings:
(iso-transl-set-language "German")

If you do not have an Alt-key on your keyboard, you can use the C-x 8
prefix to access the same capabilities.

For pre-19.29 versions, similar functionality is availble as extended
iso-transl mode (iso-transl+) which allows the definition of language
specific short cuts is available as URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/iso-transl+.shar.  This file
also includes sample configurations for the German and Spanish
languages.


9.2.2 Electric Accents
An alternative to using Alt-sequences for entering diacritical marks
is the use of `electric accents', such as used on old type writers or
under many MS Windows programs.  With this method, typing an accent
character will place this accent on the next character entered.  One
mode which supports this entry method is the iso-acc minor mode which
comes with the standard emacs distribution. Just add 
------------------
(require 'iso-acc)
------------------
to your emacs startup script, and you can turn the '`~/^" keys into
electric accents by typing 'M-x iso-accents-mode' in a specific
buffer.  To type the ç (c with cedilla) and ß (German scharfes s)
characters, type ~c and "s, respectively.

Footnote: When starting up under X11, Emacs looks for a Meta key and
if it finds no Meta key, it will use the Alt key instead.  The way to
solve this problem, is to define a Meta key using the xmodmap utility
which comes with X11.



10. File names with ISO characters
If your OS is 8 bit clean, you can use ISO characters in file names.
(This is possible under SunOS.)



11. Command names with ISO 8859-1 
If your OS supports file names with ISO characters, and your shell is
8 bit clean, you can use command names containing ISO characters. If
your shell does not handle ISO characters correctly, use one of the
many PD shells which do (e.g. tcsh, an extended csh). These are
available from a multitude of ftp sites around the world.

See section 14 on application specific information for a discussion of
various shells.



12. Spell checking
Ispell 3.1 has by far the best understanding of non-English
languages and can be configured to handle 8-bit characters
(Thus, it can handle ISO-8859-1 encoded files).

Ispell 3.1 now comes with hash tables for several languages (English,
German, French,...).  It is available via URL ftp://ftp.cs.ucla.edu/pub.  
Ispell also contains a list of international dictionaries and about
their availability in the file ispell/languages/Where.

To choose a dictionary for ispell, use the `-d  dictionary '
option.  The `-T  input-encoding ' option should be set set to `-T
latin1' if you want to use ISO 8859-1 as input encoding.

If you use ispell inside emacs (using the ispell.el mode) to spell
check a buffer, you can choose language and input encoding either
using the `M-x ispell-change-dictionary' function, or by choosing the
`Spell' item in the `Edit' pull-down menu.  This will present you with
a choice of dictionaries (cum input encodings): all languages are
listed twice, such as in `Deutsch' and `Deutsch8'.  `Deutsch8' is the
setting which will use the German dictionary and the 8 bit ISO 8859-1
input encoding.  

Alternatively, ispell.el lets you specify the dictionary to use for a
particular file at the end of of that file by adding a line such as
----
Local IspellDict: castellano8
----

The following sites also have dictionaries for ispell available via
anonymous ftp:
language	site			 file name
French		ireq-robot.hydro.qc.ca	 /pub/ispell
French		ftp.inria.fr		 /INRIA/Projects/algo/INDEX/iepelle
French		ftp.inria.fr		 /gnu/ispell3.0-french.tar.gz
German		ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at /pub/8bit/dicts/deutsch.tar.gz
Spanish		ftp.eunet.es		 /pub/unix/text/TeX/spanish/ispell
Portuguese      <a href=http://www.di.uminho.pt/~jj/pln/pln.html>http://www.di.uminho.pt/~jj/pln/pln.html</a>

Some spell checkers use strange encodings for accented characters.  If
you have to use one of these spell checkers, you may have to run
recode before invoking the spell checker to generate a file using your
spell checker's coding conventions.  After running the spell checker,
you have to translate the file back to ISO with recode.

Of course, this can be automated with a shell script:
---------------------
recode  options to generate spell checker encoding from ISO  $i tmp.file 
spell_check tmp.file
recode  options to generate ISO from spell checker encoding  tmp.file $i 
---------------------

Footnote: Ispell 4.* is not a superset of ispell 3.*. Ispell 4.* was
	  developed independently from a common ancestor, but DOES NOT
	  support any internationalization, but is restricted to the
	  English language.



13. TCP and ISO 8859-1
TCP was specified by US-Americans, for US-Americans. TCP still carries
this heritage: while TCP/IP protocol itself *is* 8 bit clean, no
effort was made to support the transfer of non-English characters in
many application level protocols (mail, news, etc.).  Some of these
protocols still only specify the transfer of 7-bit data, leaving
anything else implementation dependent.

Since the TCP/IP protocol itself transfers 8 bit data correctly,
writing applications based on TCP/IP does not lead to any loss of
encoding information.


13.1 FTP and ISO 8859-1
Transmitting data via FTP is an interesting issue, depending on what
system you use, how the relevant RFCs are interpreted, and what is
actually implemented. 

If you transfer data between two hosts using the same ISO 8859-1
representation (such as two Unix hosts), the safest solution is to
specify 'binary' transmission mode.

Note, however, that use of the binary mode for text files will disable
translation between the line-ending conventions of different operating
systems.  You might have to provide some filter to convert between the
LF-only convention of Unix and the CR-LF convention of VMS and MS
Windows when you copy from one of these systems to another.

If the FTP server and client computers use different encoding, there
are two possible approaches:
* Transfer all data as binary data, then convert the format using a
  conversion tools such as recode to translate the tranferred data.
* Specify an ASCII connection, and have your FTP server and client
  convert the encoding automatically.

While the first approach always works, it is somewhat cumbersome if
you transmit a lot of data.  The second transfer solution is much more
comfortavle, but it depends on you client (and server) to take care of
the appropriate character translations.  Since there is no universal
standard for network characters beyond ASCII (NVT-ASCII as specified
in RFC 854), this depends on attitude of your software vendor. 

Most Apple Macintosh network software is configured to treat all
network data as having ISO 8859-1 encoding and automatically
translates from and to the internal MacOS data representation.  (This
can be problematic, if you want to send or receive text using the
Macintosh character set.  The correct solution to this problem is
to use MIME.)

MS-DOS programs are much less well-behaved, and you have to try
whether your particular FTP program performs conversion.

An additional issue with the automatic translation is how to translate
unavailable characters.  If FTP is used to store and retrieve data,
the original file should be re-constructable after conversion.  If
data is to printed or processed, different encodings (e.g. graphic
approximation of characters) may be necessary. (See the section on
character set translation for a full discussion of encoding
transformations.)

A second, optional parameter is possible for 'type ascii' commands,
which specifies whether the data is for non-printing or printing
purposes.  Ideally, FTP servers for non-8859-1 servers would use this
parameter to determine whether to use an invertible encoding or
graphical and/or logical approximation during translation.  (Although
RFC 959, section 3.1.1.5 does not require this.)


13.2 Mail and ISO 8859-1
Most Internet eMail standards come from a time when the Internet was a
mostly-US phenomenon.  Other countries did have access to the net, but
much of the communication was in English nevertheless.  With the
propagation of Internet, these standards have become a problem for
languages which cannot be represented in a 7 bit ISO 646 character
set.  

Using ISO 646, which uses a slightly different character set for each
language, also poses a problem when crossing a language barrier, as
the interpretation of characters will change.  As a result, most
countries use the ISO 646 standard commonly referred to as US-ASCII
and will use escape sequences such as 'e (é) or "a (ä) to refer to
national characters.  The exception to this rule are Nordic countries
(more so in Sweden and Finland, less so in Denmark and Norway, I'm
being told), where the national ISO 646 variant has garnered a
formidable following and is a common reference point for all Nordic
users.

There are several languages, for which there are not enough
replacement characters to code all national variants (e.g. French).

Footnote:
Hence, French has not followed the nordic track.  French
net-convention is e' instead of 'e ("l''el'ephant" is strange
spelling) and many think that this is very ugly writing anyway and
drop the accents altogether but this makes text sometimes funny and
incorrect at least.


As this situation is clearly unsatisfactory, several methods of
sending mails encoded in national character sets have been developed.
We start with a discussion of the mail delivery infrastructure and
will then look at some high-level protocols which can protect mail
users and their messages from the shortcomings of the underlying mail
protocols.

Footnote: Many other email standards exist for proprietary systems.
If you use one of these mail systems, it is the responsibility of the
mail gateway to translate your messages to an appropriate Internet
mail message when you send a message to the Internet.


13.2.1 Mail Transfer Agents and the Internet Mail Infrastructure
The original sendmail protocol specification (SMTP) in RFC 821
specified the transfer of only 7 bit messages.  Many sendmail
implementations have been made 8 bit transparent (see RFC 1428), but
some SMTP handling agents are still strictly conforming to the
(somewhat outdated) RFC 821 and intentionally cut off the 8th bit.
This behavior stymies all efforts to transfer messages containing
national characters.  Thus, only if all SMTP agents between mail
originator and mail recipient are 8 bit clean, will messages be
transferred correctly.  Otherwise, accented characters are mapped to
some ASCII character (e.g. Umlaut a -> 'd'), but the rest of the
messages is still transferred correctly.

A new, enhanced (and compatible) SMTP standard, ESMTP, has been
released as RFC 1425. This standard defines and standardizes 8 bit
extensions.  This should be the mail protocol of choice for newly
shipped versions of sendmail.

Much of the European and Latin American network infrastructure
supports the transfer of 8 bit mail messages, the success rate is
somewhat lower for the US.

DEC Ultrix sendmail still implements the somewhat outdated RFC 821 to
the letter, and thus cuts off the eighth bit of all mail passing
through it.  Thus ISO encoded mail will always lose the accent marks
when transferred through a DEC host.

If your computer is running DEC Ultrix and you want it to handle 8 bit
characters properly, you can get the source for a more recent version
of sendmail via ftp (see section 14.9).  OR, you can simply
call DEC, complain that their standard mail system cannot handle
international 8 bit mail, encourage them to implement 8 bit
transparent SMTP, or (even better) ESMTP, and ask for the sendmail
patch which makes their current sendmail 8 bit transparent.
(Reportedly, such a patch is available from DEC for those who ask.)
In the meantime, an 8 bit transparent sendmail MIPS binary for Ultrix
is available as URL
ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/mips.sendmail.8bit) 

If you want to change MTAs, the popular smail PD-MTA is also 8 bit
clean.


13.2.2 High-level protocols
In the Good Old Days, messages were 7-bit US-ASCII only. When users
wanted to transfer 8 bit data (binaries or compressed files, for
example), it was their responsibility to translate them to a 7 bit
form which could be sent.  At the other end, the recipient had to
unpack the data using the same protocol.  The commonly used encoding
mechanism used for this purpose is uuencode/uudecode.

Today, a standard, MIME (MIME stands for Multi-purpose Internet Mail
Extensions), exists which automatically packs and unpacks data as is
required.  This standard can take advantage of different underlying
protocol capabilities and automatically transform messages to
guarantee delivery.  This standard can also be used to include
multimedia data types in your mail messages. 

The MIME standard defines a mail transfer protocol which can handle
different character sets and multimedia mail, independent of the
network infrastructure.  This protocol should eventually solve
problems with 7-bit mailers etc.  Unfortunately, no mail transfer
agents (mail routers) and few end user mail readers support this
standard.  Source for supporting MIME (the `metamail' package) in
various mail readers is available in URL
ftp://thumper.bellcore.com/pub/nsb.  MIME is specified in RFC 1521 and
RFC 1522 which are available from ftp.uu.net.  There is also a MIME
FAQ which is available as URL
ftp://ftp.ics.uci.edu/mh/contrib/multimedia/mime-faq.txt.gz.  (This
file is in compressed format. You will need the GNU gunzip program to
decompress this file.)

PS: Newer versions of sendmail support ESMTP negotiation and can pass
8 bit data.  However, they do not (yet?)  support downgrading of 8 bit
MIME messages.


13.3 News and ISO 8859-1
Much as mail, the Usenet news protocol specification is 7 bit based,
but the infrastructure has been upgraded to 8 bit service...  Thus,
accented characters are transferred correctly between much of Europe
(and Latin America).

ISO 8859-1 is _the_ standard for typing accented characters in most
newsgroups (may be different for MS-DOS centered newsgroups ;-), and
is preferred in most European news group hierarchies, such as at.* or
de.* 

For those who speak French, there is an excellent FAQ on using ISO
8859-1 coded characters on Usenet by François Yergeau (URL
ftp://ftp.ulaval.ca/contrib/yergeau/faq-accents).  This FAQ is
regularly posted in soc.culture.french and other relevant newsgroups.


13.4 WWW (and other information servers)
The WWW protocol can transfer 8 bit data without any problems and you
can advertise ISO-8859-1 encoded data from your client.  The display
of data is dependent upon the user client.  xmosaic (freely available
from the NCSA) which is available for most UNIX platforms uses an
ISO-8859-1 compliant font by default and will display data correctly.


13.5 rlogin
For rlogin to pass 8 bit data correctly, invoke it with 'rlogin -8' or
'rlogin -L'.



14. Some applications and ISO 8859-1
14.1 bash
You need version 1.13 or higher and set the locale correctly (see
section 3).  Also, to configure the `readline' input function of bash
to handle 8 bit characters correctly, you have to set some environment
variables in the readline startup file .inputrc:
-------------------------------------------------------
set meta-flag On
set convert-meta Off
set output-meta On
-------------------------------------------------------

Before bash version 1.13, bash used the eighth bit of characters to
mark whether or not they were quoted when performing word expansions.
While this was not a problem in a 7-bit US-ASCII environment, this was
a major restriction for users working in a non-English environment.

These readline variables have the following meaning (and default
values): 
     meta-flag (Off)
          If set to On,  readline  will  enable  eight-bit  input
          (that is, it will not strip the high bit from the char-
          acters it  reads),  regardless  of  what  the  terminal
          claims it can support.
     convert-meta (On)
          If set to On, readline will convert characters with the
          eighth  bit  set  to an ASCII key sequence by stripping
          the eighth bit and prepending an escape  character  (in
          effect, using escape as the meta prefix).
     output-meta (Off)
          If set to On, readline will display characters with the
          eighth  bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed
          escape sequence.

Bash is available from prep.ai.mit.edu in /pub/gnu.


14.2 elm
Elm automatically supports the handling of national character sets,
provided the environment is configured correctly.  If you configure
elm without MIME support, you can receive, display, enter and send 8
bit ISO 8859-1 messages (if your environment supports this character
set).

When you compile elm with MIME support, you have two options:
* you can compile elm to use 8 bit ISO-8859-1 as transport encoding:
  If you use this encoding even people without MIME compliant mailers
  will be able to read your mail messages, if they use the same
  character set.  The eight bit may however be cut off by 7 bit MTAs
  (mail transfer agents), and mutilated mail might be received by the 
  recipient, regardless of whether she uses MIME or not.  (This
  problem should be eased when 8 bit mailers are upgraded to
  understand how to translate 8 bit mails to 7 bit encodings when they
  encounter a 7 bit mailer.) 

* you can compile elm to use 7 bit US-ASCII `quoted printable' as
  transport encoding: 
  this encoding ensures that you can transfer your mail containing 
  national characters without having to worry about 7 bit MTAs.  A
  MIME compliant mail reader at the other end will translate your
  message back to your national character set.  Recipients without
  MIME compliant mail readers will however see mutilated messages:
  national characters will have been replaced by sequences of the type
  '=FF' (with FF being the ISO code (in hexadecimal) of the national
  character being encoded). 


14.3 GNUS
GNUS is a newsreader based on emacs.  It is 8 bit transparent and
contains all national character support available in emacs 19.


14.4 less
Version 237 and later automatically displays latin1 characters, if
your locale is configured correctly.  

If your OS does not support the locale mechanism, or if you use a
version of less older than 237, set the LESSCHARSET environment
variable with 'setenv LESSCHARSET latin1'.
 

14.5 metamail
To configure the metamail package for ISO 8859-1 input/output, set the
MM_CHARSET environment variable with 'setenv MM_CHARSET ISO-8859-1'.
Also, set the MM_AUXCHARSETS variable with 'setenv MM_AUXCHARSETS
iso-8859-1'. 


14.6 nn
Add the line
-----------------
set data-bits 8
-----------------
to your ~/.nn/init (or the global configuration file) in order for nn
to be able to process 8 bit characters. 


14.7 nroff
The GNU replacement for nroff, groff, has an option to generate ISO
8859-1 coded output, instead of plain ASCII.  Thus, you can preview
nroff documents with correctly displayed accented characters.  Invoke
groff with the 'groff -Tlatin1' option to achieve this. 

Groff is free software. It is available from URL
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu and many other GNU archives around the
world.


14.8 pgp
PGP (Phil Zimmermann's Pretty Good Privacy) uses Latin1 as canonical
form to transmit crypted data.  Your host computer's local character
set should be configured in the configuration file
${PGPPATH}/config.txt by setting the CHARSET parameter.  If you are
using ISO 8859-1 as your native character set, CHARSET should bet set
to LATIN1, on MS-DOS computers with code page 850 set 'CHARSET =
CP850'.  This will make PGP automatically translate all crypted texts
from/to the LATIN1 canonical form.  A setting of 'CHARSET = NOCONV'
can be used to inhibit all translations.  (

When PGP is used to code Cyrillic text, KOI8 is regarded as canonical
form (use 'CHARSET = KOI8').  If you use the ALT_CODES encoding for
Cyrillic (popular on PCs), set 'CHARSET = ALT_CODES' and it will
automatically be converted to KOI8.

Footnote: Note that PGP treats KOI8 as LATIN1, even though it is a
completely different character set (Russian), because trying to
convert KOI8 to either LATIN1 or CP850 would be futile anyway.


14.* samba
To make samba work with ISO 8859-1, use the following line in the
[global] section:
valid chars     = 0xa0 0xa1 0xa2 0xa3 0xa4 0xa5 0xa6 0xa7 0xa8 0xa9 0xaa 0xab 0xac 0xad 0xae 0xaf 0xb0 0xb1 0xb2 0xb3 0xb4 0xb5 0xb6 0xb7 0xb8 0xb9 0xba 0xbb 0xbc 0xbd 0xbe 0xbf 0xc0:0xe0 0xc1:0xe1 0xc2:0xe2 0xc3:0xe3 0xc4:0xe4 0xc5:0xe5 0xc6:0xe6 0xc7:0xe7 0xc8:0xe8 0xc9:0xe9 0xca:0xea 0xcb:0xeb 0xcc:0xec 0xcd:0xed 0xce:0xee 0xcf:0xef 0xd0:0xf0 0xd1:0xf1 0xd2:0xf2 0xd3:0xf3 0xd4:0xf4 0xd5:0xf5 0xd6:0xf6 0xd7 0xf7 0xd8:0xf8 0xd9:0xf9 0xda:0xfa 0xdb:0xfb 0xdc:0xfc 0xdd:0xfd 0xde:0xfe 0xdf 0xff


14.9 sendmail 
BSD Sendmail Version 8 has a flag in the configuration file set to
True or False which determines whether v8 passes any 8-bit data it
encounters, presumably to match the behavior of other 8-bit
transparent MTAs and to meet the wants of non-ASCII users, or if it
strips to 7 bits to conform to SMTP.  The source code for an 8 bit
clean sendmail is available in URL ftp://ftp.cs.berkeley.edu/ucb/sendmail.  
A pre-compiled binary for DEC MIPS systems running Ultrix is available
as URL ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/mips.sendmail.8bit.


14.10 tcsh
You need version 6.04 or higher, and your locale has to be set
properly (see section 3).  Tcsh also needs to be compiled with the
national language support feature, see the config.h file in the tcsh
source directory.  Tcsh is an extended csh and is available in URL
ftp://ftp.deshaw.com/pub/tcsh

If tcsh has been configured correctly, it will allow national
characters in ENVIRONMENT variables, shell variables, file names, etc.

set BenötigteDateien=/etc/rc
cat $BenötigteDateien > /dev/null


14.11 vi
Support for 8 bit character sets depends on the OS.  It works under
SunOS 4.1.*, but on OSF/1 vi gets confused about the current cursor
position in the presence of 8 bit characters.  Some versions of vi
require an 8bit locale to work with 8 bit characters.


All major replacements for vi seem to support 8 bit characters:

14.11.1 vile  ('VI Like Emacs')
Vile (by Paul Fox) can be told that the usual range of 8th-bit
characters are printable with "set printing-low 160" and "set
printing-high 255".  By either executing these command in vile or by
placing them in ~/.exrc, vile will not use the usual octal or hex
expansion for these characters.  vile is available from
ftp://id.wing.net/pub/pgf/vile.


************************* REQUIRES A RE-WRITE ********************************
Normally, 8 bit chars are printed either in hex (the default) or octal
("set unprintable-as-octal").  they look like "\xC7" or "\307" on your
screen.

vile was the first vi rewrite to provide multi-window/multi-buffer
operation.  and since it was derived from micro-emacs, it retains
fully rebindable keys, and a built in macro language.  the ftp site is
id.wing.net:/pub/pgf/vile.  the current version is 5.2.  it's pretty
mature (5 years old).  there's an X-aware version as well, that makes
full use of the mouse, with scrollbars, etc.  (to answer your
question, initialization stuff goes in a .vilerc file.)

Do you require use of the correct locale settings?
no.  8-bit support is fairly primitive.  i'll include the
pertinent sections of the doc down below.


hope all this helps --

paul

------------------------------------
from vile's Help file:

8-Bit Operation
---------------

	vile allows input, manipulation, and display of all 256 possible
	byte-wide characters.  (Double-wide characters are not supported.)
	
	Output 
	------
	By default, characters with the high bit set (decimal value 128 or
	greater) will display as hex (or octal; see "non-printing- octal"
	above) sequences, e.g.  \xA5.  A range of characters which should
	display as themselves (that is, characters understood by the user's
	display terminal) may be given using the "printing-low" and
	"printing-high" settings (see above).  Useful values for these
	settings are 160 and 255, which correspond to the printable range
	of the ISO-Latin-1 character set.

	Input
	-----
	If the user's input device can generate all characters, and if the
	terminal settings are such that these characters pass through
	unmolested (Using "stty cs8 -parenb -istrip" works for me, on an
	xterm.  Real serial lines may take more convincing, at both ends.),
	then vile will happily incorporate them into the user's text, or
	act on them if they are bound to functions.  Users who have no need
	to enter 8-bit text may want access to the meta-bound functions
	while in insert mode as well as command mode.  The mode
	"meta-insert-bindings" controls whether functions bound to meta-
	keys (characters with the high bit set) are executed only in
	command mode, or in both command and insert modes.  In either case,
	if a character is _not_ bound to a function, then it will be
	self-inserting when in insert mode.  (To bind to a meta key in the
	.vilerc file, one may specify it as itself, or in hex or octal, or
	with the shorthand 'M-c' where c is the corresponding character
	without the high bit set.

------------------------------------
also from vile's Help file, these are the settable modes which affect
8-bit operation:

	meta-insert-bindings (mib)  Controls behavior of 8-bit characters
		during insert.  Normally, key-bindings are only operational
		when in command mode: when in insert mode, all characters
		are self-inserting.  If this mode is on, and a meta-character
		is typed which is bound to a function, then that function
		binding will be honored and executed from within insert
		mode.  Any unbound meta-characters will remain self-inserting.
		(B)

	printing-low The integer value representing the first of the
		printable set of "high bit" (i.e. 8-bit) characters. 
		Defaults to 0.  Most foreign (relative to me!) users would
		set this to 160, the first printable character in the upper
		range of the ISO 8859/1 character set.  (U)

	printing-high The integer value representing the last character of
		the printable set of "high bit" (i.e. 8-bit) characters. 
		Defaults to 0.  Set this to 255 for ISO 8859/1
		compatibility.  (U)

	unprintable-as-octal (uo) If an 8-bit character is non-printing, it
		will normally be displayed in hex.  This setting will force
		octal display.  Non-printing characters whose 8th bit is
		not set are always displayed in control character (e.g. '^C')
		notation.  (B)
************************* REQUIRES A RE-WRITE ********************************

14.11.2 vim
vim was developed on an Amiga in Europe, and supports a mechanism
similar to vile.  'vim' supports input digraphs for entering 8-bit
chars, the output convention is similar to vile -- raw or nothing.

Details are unkonwn.  (If you know more about vim,
please let me know.  A request to comp.editors should yield additional
information.)

14.11.3 nvi
A recent vi-rewrite which should also should support 8 bit characters.
(Keith Bostic (bostic@cs.berkeley.edu) is the author and should know
more about nvi.)



15. Terminals
15.1 X11 Terminal Emulators
See section 4 on X11 for bug fixes for X11 clients. 

15.1.1 xterm
If you are using X11 and xterm as your terminal emulator, you should 
place the following line in ~/.Xdefaults (this seems to be required in
some releases of X11, not in all):
-------------------------
XTerm*EightBitInput: True
-------------------------

15.1.2 rxvt
rxvt is another terminal emulator used for X11, mostly under
Linux.  Invoke rxvt with the 'rxvt -8' command line.


15.2 VT2xx, VT3xx
The character encoding used in VT2xx terminals is a preliminary
version of the ISO-8859-1 standard (DEC MCS), so some characters (the
more obscure ones) differ slightly.  However, these terminals can be
used with ISO 8859-1 characters without problems.

The newer VT3xx terminals use the official ISO 8859-1 standard. 

The international versions of the VT[23]xx terminals have a COMPOSE
key which can be used to enter accented characters, e.g. 
 COMPOSE  e  '  will give an e with accent aigu (é).


15.3 Various UNIX terminals
Some terminals support down-loadable fonts.  If characters sent to
these terminals can be 8 bit wide, you can down-load your own ISO
characters set.  To see how this can be achieved, take a look at the
/pub/culture/russian/comp/cyril-term on nic.funet.fi.


15.4 MS-DOS PCs
MS-DOS PCs normally use a different encoding for accented characters,
so there are two options:

* you can use a terminal emulator which will translate between the
  different encodings.  If you use the PROCOMM PLUS, TELEMATE and
  TELIX modem programs, you can down-load the translation tables 
  from URL ftp://oak.oakland.edu/pub/msdos/modem/xlate.zip.  (You need
  to install CP850 for this to work.)

* you can reconfigure your MS-DOS PC to use an ISO-8859-1 code page.
  Either install IBM code page 819 (see section 19), or you can get
  the free ISO 8859-X support files from the anonymous ftp archive
  ftp://ftp.uni-erlangen.de/pub/doc/ISO/charsets, which contains data
  on how to do this (and other ISO-related stuff).  The README file
  contains an index of the files you need. 

Note that many terminal emulations for PCs strip the 8th bit when in
text transmission mode.  If you are using such a program to dial up
a computer, you may have to configure your terminal program to
transmit all 8 bits.


16. Programming applications which support the use of ISO 8859-1
For information on how to write applications with support for
localization (to the ISO 8859-1 and other character representations)
check out URL ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/ISO-programming.



17. Other relevant i18n FAQs
This is a list of other FAQs on the net which might be of interest. 
Topic			Newsgroup(s)		Comments
Nordic graphemes	soc.culture.nordic	interesting stuff about 
						handling nordic letters
accents sur Usenet	soc.culture.french,...	Accents on Usenet (French)
						+ more
Programming for I18N	comp.unix.questions,...	see section 16.
International fonts	ftp://ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/pub/8bit/ISO-fonts
						Discusses international fonts
						and where to find them
I18N on WWW		<a href=http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/i18n.html>http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/i18n.html</a>
German-HowTo for Linux	ftp://ftp.univie.ac.at/systems/linux/sunsite/docs/HOWTO/German-HOWTO

Using 8 bit characters  ftp://ftp.ulg.ac.be/pub/docs/iso8859/*     (1)

Much charactersets info ftp://kermit.columbia.edu/kermit/charsets/
                        <a href=http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/>http://www.columbia.edu/kermit/</a>            (2)

(1) written to "convey" the problem to the ASCII programmer, hence
more theoretical background.
(2) Kermit is second to none (in time and quality) for character sets
support and deserves a pointer in this FAQ.



18. Operating Systems and ISO 8859-1
18.1 UNIX
Most Unix implementations use the ISO 8859--1 character set, or at
least have an option to use it.  Some systems may also support other
encodings, e.g.~Roman8 (HP/UX), DEC MCS (DEC Ultrix, see the section
on VMS), etc.


18.2 NeXTSTEP
NeXTSTEP uses a proprietary character set.


18.3 MS DOS
IBM code page 819 _is_ ISO 8859-1.  Code Page 850 has the same
characters as ISO 8859-1, BUT the characters are in different
locations (i.e., you can translate 1-to-1, but you do have to
translate the characters.)


18.4 MS-Windows
Microsoft Windows uses an ISO 8859-1 compatible character set (Code
Page 1252), as delivered in the US, Europe (except Eastern Europe) and
Latin America.  In Windows 3.1, Microsoft has added additional characters
in the 0x80-0x9F range.


18.5 DEC VMS
DEC VMS uses the DEC MCS character set, which is practically
equivalent to ISO 8859-1 (it is a fromer ISO 8859--1 draft standard).
The only characters which differ between DEC MCS and ISO 8859-1 are
the Icelandic characters (eth and thorn) at locations 0xD0, 0xF0, 0xDE
and 0xFE.




19. Table of ISO 8859-1 Characters
This section gives an overview of the ISO 8859-1 character set.  The
ISO 8859-1 character set consists of the following four blocks:

00	19	CONTROL CHARACTERS
20	7E	BASIC LATIN
80	9F	EXTENDED CONTROL CHARACTERS
A0	FF	LATIN-1 SUPPLEMENT

The control characters and basic latin blocks are similar do those
used in the US national variant of ISO 646 (US-ASCII), so they are not
listed here.  Nor is the second block of control characters listed,
for which not functions have yet been defined.  

+----+-----+---+------------------------------------------------------
|Hex | Dec |Car| Description ISO/IEC 10646-1:1993(E)
+----+-----+---+------------------------------------------------------
|    |     |   |
| A0 | 160 |   | NO-BREAK SPACE
| A1 | 161 | ¡ | INVERTED EXCLAMATION MARK
| A2 | 162 | ¢ | CENT SIGN
| A3 | 163 | £ | POUND SIGN
| A4 | 164 | ¤ | CURRENCY SIGN
| A5 | 165 | ¥ | YEN SIGN
| A6 | 166 | ¦ | BROKEN BAR
| A7 | 167 | § | SECTION SIGN
| A8 | 168 | ¨ | DIAERESIS
| A9 | 169 | © | COPYRIGHT SIGN
| AA | 170 | ª | FEMININE ORDINAL INDICATOR
| AB | 171 | « | LEFT-POINTING DOUBLE ANGLE QUOTATION MARK
| AC | 172 | ¬ | NOT SIGN
| AD | 173 | ­ | SOFT HYPHEN
| AE | 174 | ® | REGISTERED SIGN
| AF | 175 | ¯ | MACRON
|    |     |   |
| B0 | 176 | ° | DEGREE SIGN
| B1 | 177 | ± | PLUS-MINUS SIGN
| B2 | 178 | ² | SUPERSCRIPT TWO
| B3 | 179 | ³ | SUPERSCRIPT THREE
| B4 | 180 | ´ | ACUTE ACCENT
| B5 | 181 | µ | MICRO SIGN
| B6 | 182 | ¶ | PILCROW SIGN
| B7 | 183 | · | MIDDLE DOT
| B8 | 184 | ¸ | CEDILLA
| B9 | 185 | ¹ | SUPERSCRIPT ONE
| BA | 186 | º | MASCULINE ORDINAL INDICATOR
| BB | 187 | » | RIGHT-POINTING DOUBLE ANGLE QUOTATION MARK
| BC | 188 | ¼ | VULGAR FRACTION ONE QUARTER
| BD | 189 | ½ | VULGAR FRACTION ONE HALF
| BE | 190 | ¾ | VULGAR FRACTION THREE QUARTERS
| BF | 191 | ¿ | INVERTED QUESTION MARK
|    |     |   |
| C0 | 192 | À | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| C1 | 193 | Á | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| C2 | 194 | Â | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| C3 | 195 | Ã | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH TILDE
| C4 | 196 | Ä | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH DIAERESIS
| C5 | 197 | Å | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A WITH RING ABOVE
| C6 | 198 | Æ | LATIN CAPITAL LIGATURE AE
| C7 | 199 | Ç | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER C WITH CEDILLA
| C8 | 200 | È | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER E WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| C9 | 201 | É | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER E WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| CA | 202 | Ê | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER E WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| CB | 203 | Ë | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER E WITH DIAERESIS
| CC | 204 | Ì | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| CD | 205 | Í | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| CE | 206 | Î | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| CF | 207 | Ï | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH DIAERESIS
|    |     |   |
| D0 | 208 | Ð | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER ETH
| D1 | 209 | Ñ | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER N WITH TILDE
| D2 | 210 | Ò | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| D3 | 211 | Ó | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| D4 | 212 | Ô | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| D5 | 213 | Õ | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH TILDE
| D6 | 214 | Ö | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH DIAERESIS
| D7 | 215 | × | MULTIPLICATION SIGN
| D8 | 216 | Ø | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER O WITH STROKE
| D9 | 217 | Ù | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER U WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| DA | 218 | Ú | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER U WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| DB | 219 | Û | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER U WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| DC | 220 | Ü | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER U WITH DIAERESIS
| DD | 221 | Ý | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER Y WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| DE | 222 | Þ | LATIN CAPITAL LETTER THORN
| DF | 223 | ß | LATIN SMALL LETTER SHARP S
|    |     |   |
| E0 | 224 | à | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| E1 | 225 | á | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| E2 | 226 | â | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| E3 | 227 | ã | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH TILDE
| E4 | 228 | ä | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH DIAERESIS
| E5 | 229 | å | LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH RING ABOVE
| E6 | 230 | æ | LATIN SMALL LIGATURE AE
| E7 | 231 | ç | LATIN SMALL LETTER C WITH CEDILLA
| E8 | 232 | è | LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| E9 | 233 | é | LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| EA | 234 | ê | LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| EB | 235 | ë | LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH DIAERESIS
| EC | 236 | ì | LATIN SMALL LETTER I WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| ED | 237 | í | LATIN SMALL LETTER I WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| EE | 238 | î | LATIN SMALL LETTER I WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| EF | 239 | ï | LATIN SMALL LETTER I WITH DIAERESIS
|    |     |   |
| F0 | 240 | ð | LATIN SMALL LETTER ETH
| F1 | 241 | ñ | LATIN SMALL LETTER N WITH TILDE
| F2 | 242 | ò | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| F3 | 243 | ó | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| F4 | 244 | ô | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| F5 | 245 | õ | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH TILDE
| F6 | 246 | ö | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH DIAERESIS
| F7 | 247 | ÷ | DIVISION SIGN
| F8 | 248 | ø | LATIN SMALL LETTER O WITH OBLIQUE BAR
| F9 | 249 | ù | LATIN SMALL LETTER U WITH GRAVE ACCENT
| FA | 250 | ú | LATIN SMALL LETTER U WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| FB | 251 | û | LATIN SMALL LETTER U WITH CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT
| FC | 252 | ü | LATIN SMALL LETTER U WITH DIAERESIS
| FD | 253 | ý | LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH ACUTE ACCENT
| FE | 254 | þ | LATIN SMALL LETTER THORN
| FF | 255 | ÿ | LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH DIAERESIS
+----+-----+---+------------------------------------------------------

Footnote: ISO 10646 calls Æ a `ligature', but this is a
          letter in (at least some) Scandinavian languages.  Thus, it
          is not in the same, merely typographic `ligature' class as
          `oe' ({\oe} in {\LaTeX} convention) which was not included
          in the ISO8859-1 standard. 

***Tentative info***
Supposedly the Danish press, some months ago, reported that ISO has
changed the standard so from now on æ and Æ are classified as
letters. 

If you can confirm or deny this, please let me know...
***Tentative info***



20. History
In April 1965, the ECMA (European Computer Manufacturer's Association)
stndardized ECMA-6.  This the character set is also (and more
commonly) also know under the names of ISO 646, US-ASCII or DIN 66003.

However, this standard only contained the basic Latin alphabet, with
no provisions for national characters in use all across Europe.  These
characters were later added by replacing several special characters
from the US-ASCII alphabet (such as {[|]}\ etc.).  These variants were
local to each country and were calle `national ISO 646 variants'.
Portability from one country to another was low, as each country had
their own national variant, and some of the special characters were
still needed (such as for programming C), which made this an
altogether unsatisfying solution.

In 1981, IBM released the IBM PC with an 8 bit character set, code
page 437.  The order of the characters added was somewhat confusing,
to say the least.  However, in 1982 the first hardware (DEC VT220 and
VT240 terminal) using a more satisfying character set, the DEC MCS
(Multilanguage Character Set) was released.

This character set was very similar to ISO 6937/2, which is
essentially equivalent to today's ISO 8859-1.  In March 1985, ECMA
standardized ECMA-94, which later came to be known as ISO 8859-1
through 8859-4.  However, ISO 8859-1 was officially stndardized by ISO
only in 1987.

1987 also saw the release of MS-DOS 3.3 which used Code Page 850.
Code Page 850 contains all characters from ISO 8859-1, making a
loss-free conversion possible.  Code Page 819 which was released later
goes one step further, as it is fully ISO 8859-1 compliant.

The ISO 8859-X standard was designed to allow as much interoperability
between character sets as possible.  Thus, all ISO 8859-X character
sets are a superset of US-ASCII and all character sets will render
English text properly.  Also, there is considerable overlap between
several character sets: a text written in German using the ISO 8859-1
character set can be correctly rendered in ISO 8859-2, the Eastern
European character set, where German is the primary foreign language
(-3, -4, -9, -10 supposedly also can display German text without
changes).

While ISO 8859-X was designed for considerable portability, texts are
still restricted mostly to their character set and portability to
other cultural areas is a problem.  One solution is to use a
meta-protocol (such as -> MIME) which specifies the character set
which was used to write a text and which causes the correct character
set to be used in displaying text.

A different approach to overloading the character set as done in the
ISO 8859-X standard (where the locations 0xa0 to 0xff are used to
encode national characters) is to use wider characters.  This is the
approach employed in Unicode (which is an enocing of Basic
MUlitlanguage Plane (BMP) of ISO/IEC 10646).  The downside to this
approach is that most of the software available today only accepts 8
bit wide characters (7 bit if you have bad luck :-( ), so the Unicode
approach is problematic.  This 8 bit restriction permeates nearly all
code in use today, including such system software (file systems,
process identifiers, etc.!).  To ease this problem somewhat, several
representations which map Unicode characters to a variable length 8
bit based encoding have been introduced (this encoding is called
UTF-8).  More information about Unicode can be obtained from URL
<a href=http://unicode.org.>http://unicode.org.</a>



21. Glossary: Acronyms, Names, etc.
i18n	    I -- 18 letters -- n = Internationalization
e13n	    Europeanization
l10n	    Localization
ANSI        American National Standards Institute, the US member of ISO 
ASCII       American Standard Code of Information Interchange 
CP          Code Page 
CP850       Code Page 850, the most widely used MS DOS code page 
CR          Carriage Return 
CTAN server Comprehensive TeX Archive Network, the world's largest
            repository for TeX related material. It consists of three
            sites mirrowing each other: ftp.shsu.edu, ftp.tex.ac.uk,
            ftp.dante.de. The current configuration, including known
            mirrows, can be obtained by fingering ctan_us@ftp.shsu.edu
DEC         Digital Equipment Corp. 
DIN         Deutsche Industrie Norm (German Industry Norm)
DOS         Disk Operating System 
EBCDIC      Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code
             ---a proprietary IBM character set used on mainframes  
ECMA        European Computer Manufacturer's Association
emacs       Editing Macros, a family of popular text editors 
ESMTP       Enhanced SMTP 
Esperanto   A synthetic, ``universal'' language developed by
              Dr.~Zamenhof in~1887.
FSF         Free Software Foundation 
FTP         File Transmission Protocol 
GNU         GNU's not Unix, an FSF project 
HP          Hewlett Packard 
HP/UX       HP Unix 
IBM         International Business Machines Corp.
IEEE        Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
INRIA       Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et Automation 
IP          Internet Protocol 
ISO         International Standards Organization 
KOI8        ???---a popular encoding for Cyrillic on UNIX workstations 
\LaTeX{}    A macro package for \TeX{} 
LF          Linefeed 
MCS         DEC's Multilingual Character Set---the ISO 8859--1 draft standard 
MIME        Multi-Purpose Internet Mail Extension 
MS-DOS      Microsoft's program loader 
MTA         mail transfer agent 
MUA         mail user agent 
OS          Operating System 
OSF         the Open Software Foundation 
OSF/1       the Open Software Foundation's Unix, Revision 1 
PGP         Pretty Good Privacy, an encryption package 
POSIX       Portable Operating System Interface (an IEEE UNIX standard) 
PS          PostScript, Adobe's printer language 
RFC         Request for Comment, an Internet standard 
sed         stream editor, a UNIX file manipulation utility 
SMTP        Simple Mail Transfer Protocol 
TCP         Transmission Control Protocol 
\TeX{}      Donald Knuth's typesetting program 
UDP         User Datagram Protocol 
URL         a WWW Uniform Resource Locator 
US-ASCII    the US national variant of ISO 646, see ASCII 
VMS         Virtual Memory System---DEC's proprietary OS 
W3          WWW 
WWW         World Wide Web 
X11         X Window System 



22. Comments
This FAQ is somewhat Sun-centered, though I have tried to include
other machine types.  If you have figured out how to configure your
machine type, please let me (mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at) know so that I
can include it in future revisions of this FAQ.



23. Home location of this document
23.1 www
You can find this and other i18n documents under URL
<a href=http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/i18n.html.>http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/i18n.html.</a>

23.2 ftp
The most recent version of this document is available via anonymous
ftp from ftp.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at under the file name
/pub/8bit/FAQ-ISO-8859-1

-----------------

Copyright © 1994,1995,1996 Michael Gschwind (mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at)

This document may be copied for non-commercial purposes, provided this
copyright notice appears.  Publication in any other form requires the
author's consent. (Distribution or publication bundled with a product
requires the author's consent, as does publication in any book,
journal or other work.)

Dieses Dokument darf unter Angabe dieser urheberrechtlichen
Bestimmungen zum Zwecke der nicht-kommerziellen Nutzung beliebig
vervielfältigt werden.  Die Publikation in jeglicher anderer Form
erfordert die Zustimmung des Autors.  (Verteilung oder Publikation mit
einem Produkt erfordert die Zustimmung des Autors, wie auch die
Veröffentlichung in Büchern, Zeitschriften, oder anderen Werken.)

Local IspellDict: english
Michael Gschwind, Institut f. Technische Informatik, TU Wien
snail: Treitlstraße 3-182-2 || A-1040 Wien || Austria
email: mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at   PGP key available via www (or email)
www  : URL:<a href=http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/mike.html>http://www.vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at/mike/mike.html</a>
phone: +(43)(1)58801 8156	   fax: +(43)(1)586 9697


.
<hr>5/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-236</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-1</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108145643 text/html 2366
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:56:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2208
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: numa@rp.open.cs.fujitsu.co.jp (NUMATA Toshinori)
Newsgroups: comp.unix.questions,comp.unix.admin,comp.windows.x,comp.std.internat,comp.software.international,at.general,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.latin-american,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.mexico,soc.culture.italian,soc.culture.colombia,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.chile,bit.listserv.catala
Subject: Re: ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ
Date: 03 Jul 1996 04:16:23 GMT

In article  internationalization/iso-8859-1-charset_836293385@rtfm.mit.edu 
	mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at writes:
> 2. Getting your terminal to handle ISO characters.
> Terminal drivers normally do not pass 8 bit characters. To enable
> proper handling of ISO characters, add the following lines to your
> .cshrc:
> ----------------------------------
> tty -s
> if ($status == 0) stty cs8 -istrip -parenb 
> ----------------------------------
> If you don't use csh, add equivalent code to your shell's start up
> file.  

> Note that it is necessary to check whether your standard I/O streams
> are connected to a terminal. Only then should you reconfigure the
> terminal driver.  Note that tty checks stdin, but stty changes stdout.
> This is OK in normal code, but if the .cshrc is executed in a pipe,
> you may get spurious warnings :-(

.... and you can't run commands from remote hosts usng "rsh" (remote shell).
You should put the commands in ".login", not in ".cshrc".  When .login
is executed, it is guaranteed that the stdin and stdout are connected
to a terminal.

--
	$BIY;NDL(B($B3t(B) $B%*! %W%s%7%9%F%`;v6HK\It(B CSS $B4k2hE}3gIt(B $BBh0l7W2hIt(B
	$B>BED(B $BMxE5(B (numa@rp.open.cs.fujitsu.co.jp)
.
<hr>6/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-237</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108145745 text/html 2150
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:56:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1992
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Birger Wathne  Birger.Wathne@nho.hydro.com 
Newsgroups: comp.unix.questions,comp.unix.admin,comp.windows.x,comp.std.internat,comp.software.international,at.general,soc.culture.german,soc.culture.french,soc.culture.belgium,soc.culture.quebec,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.spain,soc.culture.portuguese,soc.culture.latin-american,soc.culture.brazil,soc.culture.argentina,soc.culture.mexico,soc.culture.italian,soc.culture.colombia,soc.culture.venezuela,soc.culture.peru,soc.culture.chile,bit.listserv.catala
Subject: Re: ISO 8859-1 National Character Set FAQ
Date: Thu, 04 Jul 1996 10:19:01 +0200

NUMATA Toshinori wrote:
> 
> You should put the commands in ".login", not in ".cshrc".  When .login
> is executed, it is guaranteed that the stdin and stdout are connected
> to a terminal.
> 

But if you put it in .login, it won't get executed for each terminal
window you open within the windowing system.

From the cshrc man page on Solaris 2.5:

                       The setting of $prompt has three meanings:

                       $prompt  not  set     --   non-interactive
                       shell, test $?prompt.

                       $prompt set but == ""   --  .cshrc  called
                       by the which(1) command.

                       $prompt set and != "" --  normal  interac-
                       tive shell.

I have usually tested for $?prompt in my .cshrc files, and I
have not had any problems. Use something like

if ( $?prompt == 0 ) then
	exit
endif

followed by all the stuff that should only be set for interactive shells
(stty commands, aliases, etc).



Birger
.
<hr>7/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-238</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-86</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108145828 text/html 1232
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:57:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1074
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: rusbeck@ping.at
Newsgroups: at.general
Subject: neue Gruppe at.umwelt?
Date: 05 Jul 1996 21:27:18

Salute & Servus!


heidrun@mech.tu-graz.ac.at (Heidrun Kirchweger) wrote:

>Mit einiger Verwunderung habe ich festgestellt, dass es im Bereich
>at.* keinerlei Newsgroups gibt, die sich speziell mit
>Umweltschutzthemen beschaeftigen, abgesehen vom
>at.blackbox.meine-meinung.umwelt, bzw. at.blackbox.umweltberatung, die
>IMO aber nur Teilbereiche und nicht den Bereich Umwelt(schutz)
>allgemein betreffen.
Liegt es vielleicht daran, dass die technikverliebten Internetmenschen
sich mit der Umwelt nicht auseinandersetzen wollen?

Grundsaetzlich: JA JA JA, sollte eingerichtet werden!

.
<hr>8/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-239</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-128</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108145916 text/html 2705
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:58:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2547
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: boyd@sociamedia.nl
Newsgroups: ann.noordzuid
Subject: Festival Mundial
Date: Fri, 31 May 1996 08:02:44

Van 30 mei tot en met 16 juni
VOLOP NIEUWS TIJDENS FESTIVAL MUNDIAL

Een nieuwe lokatie, een aanzienlijk grootser aangepakte afsluiting en
vooral veel nieuwe, tot de verbeelding sprekende activiteiten.
Kortom, de negende editie van Festival Mundial is een festival
'nieuwe stijl'. Maar veel is ook als vanouds. Want onder het motto
'Ee'n wereld ... e'e'n toekomst' biedt Festival Mundial weer een
optimale mix van lering en vermaak.

Vertrouwd zijn onder meer de Festivalweken vanaf 30 mei met activi-
teiten in Tilburg en regio. Nieuw in die weken zijn onder meer
KinderMundial, Parade van de Toekomst en Tour de Mundial. Nieuw is
ook de uitbreiding van de afsluitende manifestatie tot maar liefst
vier dagen. Dit jaar voor het eerst op het complex 'Hart van
Brabant', op de grens tussen Tilburg en Riel. Met op donderdag 13
juni 'Voices of the World' en op vrijdag 14 juni 'NewFolk-Night',
twee hoogstaande concertseries die ongetwijfeld hoge ogen zullen
gooien.

En dan is er uiteraard de grootse afsluiting die dit jaar is
verspreid over twee dagen, namelijk zaterdag 15 en zondag 16 juni.
Met verspreid over vier podia wereldmuziek van meer dan 50 groepen,
waaronder grootheden als Salif Keita, Alan Stivell, Yothu Yindi en
Raul Barboza. Verder allerlei informatie en activiteiten van vele
organisaties in de 'Latijns Amerika Tuin', op het 'Afrika-Doen-
Plein', in het 'Novib Kinderdorp', op het 'Balkanplein', de
'Wereldmarkt', enz.

Uitgebreide informatie is beschikbaar op <a href=http://www.ddh.nl/fmundial>http://www.ddh.nl/fmundial</a>
of per E-mail: coswmbra@antenna.nl


+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
|             Socia Media: working for sustainable media            |
|        P.O. box 13510, 2501 EM  The Hague, The Netherlands        |
| E-mail: boyd@sociamedia.nl  Voice: +31-703654124 (fax on request) |
|         World Wide Web: <a href=http://www.sociamedia.nl/home.html>http://www.sociamedia.nl/home.html</a>        |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

.
<hr>9/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-240</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-176</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108150002 text/html 6835
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:59:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6677
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Daniel Verhoeven  daniel@knooppunt.be 
Newsgroups: soc.culture.belgium,ann.politiek.belgie,ann.noordzuid
Subject: Re: Standpunt bepaling
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 1996 11:31:12 +0000

Beste,


Op de laatste algemene vergadering van KnoopPunt VZW is beslist dat
KnoopPunt VZW een brede ledenvereniging moet worden met democratische
structuur. Een van de opdrachten van de VZW is controle op de
onafhankelijke verspreiding van APC-nieuws. Ik citeer het
evaluatierapport:=20

"We think also that it is clear that KnoopPunt vzw keeps on managing the=20
distribution op APC-news, using the cooperative as system, but not=20
exclusively. This way this managment is detached from economical=20
interests. KnoopPunt VZW should try to find worthy distribution points.=20
Universities, schools and also community networks should have access to=20
APC-news."

Het lanceren van deze discussie moet in dit kader gezien worden.=20
KnoopPunt heeft destijds samenwerking verleent aan het DWTC-projekt,=20
omdat het daarin de mogelijkheid zag om een "community network" te=20
realiseren. Maar dit is het niet geworden, integendeel krijgen we de=20
indruk dat momenteel slechts een kleine bevoorrechte groep profiteert van=
=20
het projekt, zeker niet het grote publiek, en ook niet de noeste werkers=20
aan de basis. Het is waarschijnlijk wel zo dat het projekt gehinderd=20
wordt door het bureaucratisch carcan waarin het gewongen wordt door het=20
DWTC, maar het is niet door zich daar naar te schikken en door daarover=20
te zwijgen dat men de zaak vooruit helpt.

Deze discussie wil ik opentrekken.  Laten we in deze discussie proberen
mekaar te begrijpen zonder dat we daarom openheid te schuwen. Open
discussie is de beste garantie voor democratie.=20

Ik zie dit in de eerste plaats als een politieke discussie, en sorry als=20
ik daarin volgens u niet professioneel tewerk ga, is het omdat ik ook=20
geen professionele politieker ben. Maar in mijn ogen hebben alle burgers=20
het recht om deel te nemen in die politieke discussie, het is de taak van=
=20
de professionele politiekers om ze te helpen bij die discussie. Maar dat=20
doen professionele politici natuurlijk juist niet, want dan brengen ze=20
hun voorsprong in gevaar ;-).


On Thu, 27 Jun 1996, Boliviacentrum wrote:

> >Het NCOS heeft nooit duidelijke afspraken willen maken rond het beheer
> >van dat projekt. Ze hebben zichzelf benoemd als coordinator en dreigen o=
ns
>=20
> Maar toch eerst even de feiten preciseren, want ik heb de indruk dat
> Knooppunt (Daniel dus) niet even correct met deze zaken omspringt.
> Het beheer van NGONET ligt bij de stuurgroep die bestaat uit een
> tiental NGO's en een coordinator (een persoon en niet h=E9t NCOS)
> heeft aangesteld.=20

Deze stuurgroep heeft geen enkele juridische structuur en de regels die=20
gelden bij het beheer van het projekt zijn allerminst duidelijk. Als=20
partner in het projekt werden wij tot het eind vorig jaar uitgenodigd op=20
die stuurgroepvergaderingen, nu ineens niet meer. Er blijkt toch wel=20
degelijk willekeur te bestaan. Ons werd in december nog beloofd dat we=20
een account zouden krijgen op de project-server, andere parters blijken=20
die te hebben. Waarom wij niet? Op welke basis werd dat beslist? Waarom=20
deze discriminatie?

> Er is geen sprake van dat h=E9t NCOS Knooppunt uit
> het project wil gooien; het is wel zo dat de houding van Knooppunt
> bij de leden van de stuurgroep, waar wij -en trouwens ook


Ja, hoe moet ik het volgende dan verstaan?

Citaat van coordinator van het projekt:
:Alle eventuele verdere samenwerking tussen het Ngonet en Knooppunt is
:gebaseerd op wederzijdse afspraken buiten het kader van de overeenkomst
:met DWTC (zie hierboven). We zouden dit graag weten voor 10 juli. Indien
:wij voor die datum geen bericht van jullie ontvangen hebben beschouwen wij
:de bijdrage van Knooppunt tot dit project als afgerond.=20

Ik versta dit als volgt: De stuurgroep, waar wij oorspronkelijk ook=20
inzaten, beheert het DWTC-projekt. Maar KnoopPunt VZW moet eerst afpraken=
=20
maken met die stuurgroep, buiten het kader van het projekt, wil het nog=20
als deelnemend aan het projekt beschouwd worden. Waarom worden wij hier=20
weer eens gediscrimineerd?

> Knooppunt zelf- bij zijn, als zeer onprofessioneel wordt gezien wat
> betreft elke samenwerking op niet-technisch vlak. Hierbij denk ik oa
> aan de 'evaluatie van de doelstellingen van Knooppunt', waarin niet
> Knooppunt maar de werking van de NGO's op arbitraire wijze wordt
> 'geevalueerd'.=20

Het evaluatie rapport van 8 bladzijden, dat zowel een politieke als een
strategische evaluatie inhoud bevat 7 regeltjes kritiek op de NGO's als=20
we het hebben over de "widening of the infromation gap". Daar staat o.a.=20
"Digital Newsconferences are seen as collections of information, not as=20
forums to discuss and exchange information."  Spijtig genoeg is dit ook=20
zo. Ik zou willen dat dit verandert en waarom moet ik er dan over=20
zwijgen?=20

Dan staat er ook nog een kritiek op de evolutie van het DWTC-projekt,=20
namelijk dat het niet de richting van "community networking" is ingeslagen.=
=20
Wij hebben ons projekt voor een breed toegankelijke infoshop, projekt dat=
=20
we al hadden in 93, moeten opgeven bij gebrek aan middelen. =20

> NGONET is inderdaad fors gesubsidieerd. De relatie subsidie en
> (on)afhankelijkheid is interessante discussiestof.  Subsidie wil
> niet altijd zeggen dat je gebonden bent. Ook bij APC -dat dit
> principe nochtans blijkt te hanteren-  blijken de leden door
> allerlei Foundations en/of overheden gesteund.=20

Ja, maar niet voor 100 % zoals het DWTC-projekt. Wij hebben van in den=20
beginne gevraagd dat een alternatieve financieringswijze op poten zou=20
gezet worden voor de Internetserver, minstens om zijn continuiteit te=20
waarborgen. Daar is men nog altijd niet op ingegaan.=20

Ik wil dat de discriminatie van KnoopPunt ophoudt, ik wil dat we minstens=
=20
uitgenodigd worden op de stuurgroepvergaderingen om ons standpunt te=20
verduidelijken. U moet maar eens ophouden met te zeggen dat ons standpunt=
=20
niet duidelijk is als we niet eens te kans krijgen om het duidelijk te=20
stellen, of noemt u alleen een standpunt niet duidelijk als u er niet mee=
=20
akkoord gaat?

Beste Groeten,
Daniel Verhoeven.
.
<hr>10/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-241</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B022-254</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108150055 text/html 1219
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:00:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1061
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Gunter Loos  Gul@ngonet.be 
Newsgroups: soc.culture.belgium,ann.politiek.belgie,ann.noordzuid
Subject: Re: Standpunt bepaling
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 1996 12:45:09 +0200

Daniel Verhoeven wrote:
> 
> Beste,
>
En knip...
> 
> Beste Groeten,
> Daniel Verhoeven.

Ik denk dat deze discussie hier niet kan of mag gevoerd worden.

Gunter, systeembeheerder NgoNet.
-- 
  .    .__    . |Nationaal Centrum voor OntwikkelingsSamenwerking vzw, NgoNet
 _| _  [ __   | |Voice    Gunter.Loos@+32 2 5392620       Fax   +32 2 5391343
(_](/, [_./(_|| |mailto:gul@ngonet.be "You are all weirdos."  - Sam the Eagle
----MijnEigenWoordenNietVanIemandAnders - MyOwnExpressionsNotSomeoneElses----
.
<hr>11/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-242</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B023-55</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108150147 text/html 1222
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:01:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1064
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: Gunter Loos  Gul@ngonet.be 
Newsgroups: soc.culture.belgium,ann.politiek.belgie,ann.noordzuid
Subject: Re: Standpunt bepaling
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 1996 14:42:07 +0200

Daniel Verhoeven wrote:
> 
> Beste,
> 
En knip...
>
> Beste Groeten,
> Daniel Verhoeven.

Ik denk dat deze discussie hier niet kan of mag gevoerd worden.

Gunter Loos
Systeembeheerder NgoNet
-- 
  .    .__    . |Nationaal Centrum voor OntwikkelingsSamenwerking vzw, NgoNet
 _| _  [ __   | |Voice    Gunter.Loos@+32 2 5392620       Fax   +32 2 5391343
(_](/, [_./(_|| |mailto:gul@ngonet.be "You are all weirdos."  - Sam the Eagle
----MijnEigenWoordenNietVanIemandAnders - MyOwnExpressionsNotSomeoneElses----
.
<hr>12/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-243</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B023-119</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108150233 text/html 2752
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:01:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2594
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: jym@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: Mitsubishi Campaign - Rainforest Ac
Date: 05 Jun 1996 16:51:41 -0800 (PST)

=o= I thought I'd repost salient excerpts from this message
in nfn.temporest.
     _Jym_ 

/* Written  2:36 PM  Jun  5, 1996 by boycottmc in igc:rainfor.genera */
/* ---------- "Mitsubishi Campaign Update" ---------- */

Overall, the campaign is going well. We hope to have a new 
campaign director to fill Michael Marx's position by September. 
We are also hoping to have the results of the Systems Group on 
Forests sometime in the fall. Our campus campaign has been 
spreading like crazy -- 33 campuses have passed resolutions and 
Boulder has taken it to the Board of Regents. The dedication of 
activists working on this boycott is very inspiring. 

Our efforts with the corporate endorsements are paying off as 
well. Currently, we have 18 businesses which have endorsed the 
campaign and many more are on the way. This aspect of the 
campaign has lead us to research investment funds which do 
business with Mitsubishi. 

As you may have noticed, there is a large quantity of
'Mitsubishi in Burma' information in this issue. We are just
beginning to discover the depth of investment Mitsubishi is
making in Burma.  It saddens me that Mitsubishi disseminates
information claiming to be sensitive to human rights and the
environment yet they continue to invest in destruction. We have
joined forces with the Burma Coalition to spread the word that
Mitsubishi needs to be listed right up there with PepsiCo and
Unocal on campus resolutions.

Boulder Takes Resolution to the Regents

The Boulder RAG declared victory with the CU Board of Regents.
The Regents have not yet endorsed the boycott, but the
resolution is moving along. It has been referred to the regents
planning committee, where the students will have a chance to
make their case. The group battled bureaucracy for nearly 18
months, just to get five minutes before the board. "We wanted
the proposal to go into discussion. This will be a forum where
we are invited to attend and participate," stated Aubrey
Fennewald.  Great job and let's get more of these resolutions
passed in the fall! (CO Daily, 4/26/96)
.
<hr>13/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-244</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B023-192</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108150316 text/html 1946
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:02:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1788
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: jym@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: UFW Strawberry Boycott?
Date: 09 Jun 1996 13:20:13 -0800 (PST)

=o= I found the following in the grns.usa.forum conference.
Does anyone have details on this boycott?  I knew about the
methyl bromide spraying, but not the rest of it.
     _Jym_ 

From: "David Silva, Santa Cruz CGreen Party"  dsilva@bbs.cruzio.com 
Subject: Re: And on another matter...UFW GRAPE BOYCOTT UPDATE
Newsgroups: grns.usa.forum
Date: 08 Jun 1996 01:32:07
Message-ID:  214ea8b7&9606080132.aa24464@bbs.cruzio.com 
References:  214ea8b7&96May7.125028edt.20743@gateway.providence.edu 
X-Gateway: notes@igc.apc.org
Lines: 15

THE REAL UPDATE is STRAWBERRIES.  In the central coast and throughout 
California the boycott has begun.  The Strawberryfields treat workers like 
slaves, the women are raped as a perk for the field managers, the 
methylbromide used poses a definite threat to the workers, the fields 
surround elementary schools, this is perhaps the greatest threat to the ozone 
layer, and the UFW is now oreganizing to unionize all the fields.  UFW and the 
various Toxic Coalitions need your support to spread the word on STRAWBERRIES.
eat organic only and pressure purchasing agents in all institutions.  The time 
is now the struggle is life and death and the Strawberry Growers are of the 
most vicious among all other growers in agri-business.  David Silva
.
<hr>14/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-245</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B023-234</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108150404 text/html 1682
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:03:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1524
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: rbernstein@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: ANTI-Boycott of Disney
Date: 16 Jun 1996 13:01:54 -0800 (PST)

I have boycotted Disney my entire life and must be the only resident
of Southern California who has never been to any Disney theme park.

I have boycotted Disney because of Disney's personal and corporate
fascist policies and beliefs. Disney was anti-labor, anti-Jewish
and anti-progressive in every way. During the 60s and 70s people
with long hair were not allowed into Disney facilities and in the
1980s employees were not even allowed to wear facial hair (even
though Disney himself had a moustache!)

One of those policies for many years was anti-gay policies of
not allowing same-sex dancing partners at Disneyland and firing known
gay employees.

So it is funny to see Disney being the target of a Baptist Boycott
because of Disney's current alleged "pro-gay" (which they call "anti-family")
policies.

I am now inclined to make a point of going to Disneyland for the first
time and I encourage everyone to write to Disney and support their
new progressive policies and make an *anti* boycott of Disney!
.
<hr>15/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-246</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B023-301</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108150453 text/html 6809
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:04:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6651
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: ggundrey@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE - TEST FOR BOY
Date: 17 Jun 1996 15:55:51 -0800 (PST)

From: George Gundrey  ggundrey@igc.apc.org 
Subject: BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE - TEST FOR BOYCOTT MOVEMENT


The following story was produced and distributed by the Pacific News 
Service (PNS).  PNS is a twenty five year old network of writers, scholars, 
freelance journalists and teenagers who explore the vast new subterranean 
world of private cultures emerging in the 21st century.

Each day PNS transmits a 600-1000 word article to over 100 news media 
outlets.  For more articles, see our Web site at 
<a href=http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/.>http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/.</a>  For information about subscribing, 
contact PNS at 415-243-4364.


COPYRIGHT 
PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE 450 Mission Street,  Room 204
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-243-4364

COPYRIGHT PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE
450 Mission Street,  Room 204
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-243-4364


NEWS ANALYSIS-710 WORDS

BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE -- LITMUS TEST FOR GLOBAL BOYCOTT MOVEMENT

EDITOR'S NOTE: Widespread crackdowns on Burma's pro-democracy movement 
have led a broad range of human rights advocates -- from e-mailing campus 
cyber-revolutionaries to U.S. Senators -- to dub Burma "the South Africa 
of the 90's". Pressure is mounting for a worldwide embargo on foreign 
investment. The test of the strategy will be stopping Burma's largest and 
most controversial project, a natural gas pipeline planned for the 
rainforest homeland of embattled ethnic minorities. PNS commentator Edith 
T. Mirante is author of "Burmese Looking Glass: A Human Rights Adventure" 
(Atlantic Monthly Press).

BY EDITH T. MIRANTE, PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE

Early this year the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa in Nigeria focused world 
attention on Shell Oil's conflict with that country's Ogoni ethnic group. 
Today, a similar crisis is unfolding in Burma where a gas pipeline scheme 
is causing mayhem among indigenous people.

More than a dozen multi-national corporations have paid Burma's junta, 
the State Law and Order Restoration Council or Slorc, millions of dollars 
each for the rights to search for petroleum in Burma. Most have come up 
dry in their on-land efforts and withdrawn. But a few, obtaining 
off-shore concessions, struck large reserves of undersea natural gas.

The main offshore concessions are a block belonging to Texaco (U.S.), 
Nippon (Japan), and Premier (UK); another is held by Unocal (US) and 
Total (France), while the Los Angeles-based Arco recently signed an 
exploration contract with Slorc as well. To transport the natural gas, 
Unocal and Total, in partnership with Slorc and neighboring Thailand's 
Petroleum Authority, have begun a pipeline which will stretch from 
Burma's Andaman Sea, across its southern Tenasserim region, to 
electricity generating facilities in Thailand.

The Tenasserim is inhabited largely by the Mon, Karen, and Tavoyan ethnic 
groups, who have long been in rebellion against Burma's ruling military. 
Mon rebels are observing a ceasefire with Slorc, but remain armed, and 
many other guerrilla groups roam the area. To secure the Tenasserim, the 
Slorc has moved several battalions of troops around the pipeline route, a 
beefed-up presence reportedly accompanied by large-scale violations of 
human rights.

Road-building and a railway extension that connects to the pipeline 
route, as well as construction of new army bases, have made extensive use 
of ethnic minorities for slave labor, according to Human Rights 
Watch-Asia, Greenpeace, and Amnesty International. Escaped slaves tell of 
beatings, torture, rape and murder of captives working on the Tenasserim 
infrastructure projects by Slorc's security forces.

The foreign oil companies have shrugged off accusations of complicity in 
the abuses by Slorc security forces. "If you threaten the pipeline 
there's gonna be more military," predicted Unocal's John Imle in the 
Bangkok Post. "For every threat to the pipeline there will be a reaction."

For their part, a coalition of rebel forces has vowed to turn the 
pipeline into "a snake of fire" if it is ever completed, and last year 
five members of a Total surveying team were killed and eleven wounded in 
an ambush by Karen rebels of their Burmese army guarded convoy.

In addition to the human cost, the Tenasserim pipeline slices through one 
of the last tropical rainforest areas of mainland Southeast Asia. This 
habitat of elephants, tigers and rhinoceros is threatened by 
construction, and by the likelihood that logging company access will 
follow a successful security campaign.

The junta is anticipating billions of dollars in revenue from selling gas 
to Thailand -- a strong incentive for it to hang onto power. But pressure 
to withdraw is mounting on Slorc's corporate backers from pro-democracy 
supporters, particularly in the U.S. which ranks as among the Slorc's top 
five investors. Revelations about military involvement in joint-venture 
factories have prompted Levi Strauss, Eddie Bauer, Liz Claiborne, and 
Macy's to quit manufacturing in Burma. Consumer and shareholder pressure 
continue on the oil companies, and on Pepsi-Cola which has bottling 
plants in Burmese cities.

Borrowing a tactic from South Africa's anti-apartheid campaign, activists 
have encouraged selective contracting legislation to bar city and state 
governments from doing business with companies in Burmese ventures. San 
Francisco and Berkeley, Calif., and Madison, Wis., have passed such acts, 
and New York City and the State of Massachusetts have them in process. On 
a national level, a bill for broad-based economic sanctions against Slorc 
has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Mitch McConnell (R-Ky) 
and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt).

At a time when ethnic insurgency is at a low ebb, and pro-democracy 
leader Aung San Suu Kyi's non-violent campaign to free Burma is facing a 
wealthy and well-armed Slorc, the international economic strategy seems 
to be the strongest option for undermining Burma's regime. The true test 
of that strategy will be stopping the pipeline scheme, and with it the 
Burmese generals' dreams of natural gas riches.

(06111996)	**** END ****	(c) COPYRIGHT PNS


/

.
<hr>16/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-247</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-16</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108150537 text/html 6738
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:04:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6580
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: ggundrey@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE --
Date: 17 Jun 1996 16:03:09 -0800 (PST)

From: George Gundrey  ggundrey@igc.apc.org 


The following story was produced and distributed by the Pacific News 
Service (PNS).  PNS is a twenty five year old network of writers, scholars, 
freelance journalists and teenagers who explore the vast new subterranean 
world of private cultures emerging in the 21st century.

Each day PNS transmits a 600-1000 word article to over 100 news media 
outlets.  For more articles, see our Web site at 
<a href=http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/.>http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/.</a>  For information about subscribing, 
contact PNS at 415-243-4364.


COPYRIGHT PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE
450 Mission Street,  Room 204
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-243-4364

COPYRIGHT PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE
450 Mission Street,  Room 204
San Francisco, CA 94105
415-243-4364


NEWS ANALYSIS-710 WORDS

BURMA'S GAS PIPELINE -- LITMUS TEST FOR GLOBAL BOYCOTT MOVEMENT

EDITOR'S NOTE: Widespread crackdowns on Burma's pro-democracy movement 
have led a broad range of human rights advocates -- from e-mailing campus 
cyber-revolutionaries to U.S. Senators -- to dub Burma "the South Africa 
of the 90's". Pressure is mounting for a worldwide embargo on foreign 
investment. The test of the strategy will be stopping Burma's largest and 
most controversial project, a natural gas pipeline planned for the 
rainforest homeland of embattled ethnic minorities. PNS commentator Edith 
T. Mirante is author of "Burmese Looking Glass: A Human Rights Adventure" 
(Atlantic Monthly Press).

BY EDITH T. MIRANTE, PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE

Early this year the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa in Nigeria focused world 
attention on Shell Oil's conflict with that country's Ogoni ethnic group. 
Today, a similar crisis is unfolding in Burma where a gas pipeline scheme 
is causing mayhem among indigenous people.

More than a dozen multi-national corporations have paid Burma's junta, 
the State Law and Order Restoration Council or Slorc, millions of dollars 
each for the rights to search for petroleum in Burma. Most have come up 
dry in their on-land efforts and withdrawn. But a few, obtaining 
off-shore concessions, struck large reserves of undersea natural gas.

The main offshore concessions are a block belonging to Texaco (U.S.), 
Nippon (Japan), and Premier (UK); another is held by Unocal (US) and 
Total (France), while the Los Angeles-based Arco recently signed an 
exploration contract with Slorc as well. To transport the natural gas, 
Unocal and Total, in partnership with Slorc and neighboring Thailand's 
Petroleum Authority, have begun a pipeline which will stretch from 
Burma's Andaman Sea, across its southern Tenasserim region, to 
electricity generating facilities in Thailand.

The Tenasserim is inhabited largely by the Mon, Karen, and Tavoyan ethnic 
groups, who have long been in rebellion against Burma's ruling military. 
Mon rebels are observing a ceasefire with Slorc, but remain armed, and 
many other guerrilla groups roam the area. To secure the Tenasserim, the 
Slorc has moved several battalions of troops around the pipeline route, a 
beefed-up presence reportedly accompanied by large-scale violations of 
human rights.

Road-building and a railway extension that connects to the pipeline 
route, as well as construction of new army bases, have made extensive use 
of ethnic minorities for slave labor, according to Human Rights 
Watch-Asia, Greenpeace, and Amnesty International. Escaped slaves tell of 
beatings, torture, rape and murder of captives working on the Tenasserim 
infrastructure projects by Slorc's security forces.

The foreign oil companies have shrugged off accusations of complicity in 
the abuses by Slorc security forces. "If you threaten the pipeline 
there's gonna be more military," predicted Unocal's John Imle in the 
Bangkok Post. "For every threat to the pipeline there will be a reaction."

For their part, a coalition of rebel forces has vowed to turn the 
pipeline into "a snake of fire" if it is ever completed, and last year 
five members of a Total surveying team were killed and eleven wounded in 
an ambush by Karen rebels of their Burmese army guarded convoy.

In addition to the human cost, the Tenasserim pipeline slices through one 
of the last tropical rainforest areas of mainland Southeast Asia. This 
habitat of elephants, tigers and rhinoceros is threatened by 
construction, and by the likelihood that logging company access will 
follow a successful security campaign.

The junta is anticipating billions of dollars in revenue from selling gas 
to Thailand -- a strong incentive for it to hang onto power. But pressure 
to withdraw is mounting on Slorc's corporate backers from pro-democracy 
supporters, particularly in the U.S. which ranks as among the Slorc's top 
five investors. Revelations about military involvement in joint-venture 
factories have prompted Levi Strauss, Eddie Bauer, Liz Claiborne, and 
Macy's to quit manufacturing in Burma. Consumer and shareholder pressure 
continue on the oil companies, and on Pepsi-Cola which has bottling 
plants in Burmese cities.

Borrowing a tactic from South Africa's anti-apartheid campaign, activists 
have encouraged selective contracting legislation to bar city and state 
governments from doing business with companies in Burmese ventures. San 
Francisco and Berkeley, Calif., and Madison, Wis., have passed such acts, 
and New York City and the State of Massachusetts have them in process. On 
a national level, a bill for broad-based economic sanctions against Slorc 
has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Mitch McConnell (R-Ky) 
and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt).

At a time when ethnic insurgency is at a low ebb, and pro-democracy 
leader Aung San Suu Kyi's non-violent campaign to free Burma is facing a 
wealthy and well-armed Slorc, the international economic strategy seems 
to be the strongest option for undermining Burma's regime. The true test 
of that strategy will be stopping the pipeline scheme, and with it the 
Burmese generals' dreams of natural gas riches.

(06111996)	**** END ****	(c) COPYRIGHT PNS


/

.
<hr>17/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-248</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-71</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108150630 text/html 1780
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:05:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1622
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: kwood@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: Boise Cascade in Mexico
Date: 21 Jun 1996 12:18:32 -0800 (PST)

From: Karen Wood  kwood@igc.apc.org 


MAKE SURE YOU READ A COPY OF THIS ARTICLE!!!

Boise Cascade's Mexican subsidiary, Costa Grande Forest Products, is 
operating a mill in Papanoa, Mexico, in the state of Guerrero. They have 
logging rights to a million acres of old-growth in a region where 27 
campesinos have been murdered by the state for their protests of the 
logging.

The article is titled "Treasure of the Costa Grande", written by John Ross, 
and appears in the July/August 1996 issue of _Sierra_.

The article quotes Rocio Mesino, the daughter of an OCSS (the Campesino 
Organization of the Southern Sierra) director (who is now in hiding):

"We are farmers. The forests bring water. We can't allow them to be cut 
down."

Write to Boise Cascade and tell them to shut down their Mexico operation:

George Harad, CEO
Boise Cascade Corp.
PO Box 50
Boise, ID 83728-0001
Phone: (800)544-6473; (208)384-6161

Karen Wood
Boise Cascade Boycott Coordinator
Siskiyou Regional Education Project
(541)592-4459
kwood@igc.apc.org
Boise Cascade Boycott Action Kits are available; a $5 donation is 
requested.




.
<hr>18/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-249</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-125</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108150723 text/html 17755
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:06:40 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 17596
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: jym@igc.org
Newsgroups: econ.boycotts
Subject: Burma oil campaign
Date: 26 Jun 1996 16:01:24

=o= Here's something from the rainfor.general conference.
     _Jym_ 

From: Pam Wellner  freeburma@igc.apc.org 
Subject: Burma oil campaign
Newsgroups: rainfor.general
Date: Wed, 26 Jun 1996 14:45:33 -0700 (PDT)
Message-ID:  APC&1'0'562a1ed1'b61@igc.apc.org 

* ANNOUNCEMENT *

Introducing the new campaign...

 FREE BURMA: No Petro-dollars for SLORC

PLEASE JOIN US

Following you will find the text to our Rhot off the pressesS
Boycott Unocal brochure. The Free Burma: No Petro-dollars for
SLORC campaign incorporates public advocacy and grass roots
organizing to challenge and pressure foreign oil companies to
withdraw from Burma while it is under the control of the State Law
and Order Restoration Council (SLORC). These oil companies provide
one of the largest sources of income to SLORC, helping the junta
maintain its power.

The campaign was spearheaded by a call for help from the ethnic
nationalities living in the Tenasserim area where foreign oil
companies are developing gas pipeline projects. The Karen, Mon,
and Tavoy peoples are the victims of human rights abuses such as
forced relocation, forced labor, pillaging, rape and torture by
SLORC troops securing the pipeline area.

The campaign primarily focuses on two different gas pipeline
projects operated by 1.) Total (France)/Unocal (USA) and 2.)
Texaco (USA), Nippon Oil (Japan) and Premier (UK) in the Southern
Burma/Tenasserim watershed. The pipeline area also contains some
of mainland Southeast Asia's last intact rainforests. The campaign
will also focus on Arco's new contract for oil/gas exploration in
the Andaman Sea.

THE CAMPAIGN'S CURRENT OBJECTIVE is to escalate public attention
and pressure on these oil corporations. We are seeking to enlist a
diverse set of groups - including human rights, labor, religious,
environmental, student, legal, and many others - to work on the
Burma oil issue.

We are hoping that YOU will become involved and assist us with
this campaign.  Available for outreach and leafleting in your area
are the complete Unocal brochure with graphics and photos, bumper
stickers that read "Free Burma, Boycott Texaco" and "Free Burma,
Boycott Unocal," 3 sq. in. stickers reading "Texaco - Starring in
Burma Slavery," and round 2" stickers reading "Unocal 76 - Making
a Burma Killing," as well as t-shirts. An activist packet
detailing ways to work on the issue in your local area and
brochures on Texaco, Arco, and Total are coming soon. We ask only
for a donation based on postage for brochures, and cost for
stickers and t-shirts.

You may CONTACT US by email (freeburma@irn.org), fax or phone for
more information and materials. Read on for more information for
the text of the Unocal brochure. Next week the Unocal brochure it
in its entirety with graphics and photographs will be posted on
the International Rivers Network web page - http.//www.irn.org.

Please join us in pressuring these oil companies to withdraw their
operations from Burma and to stop supporting the illegal regime!

Thank you,

Pamela Wellner Campaign Coordinator

Free Burma: No Petro-dollars for SLORC a project of the
International Rivers Network 1847 Berkeley Way Berkeley, CA 94703

Tel: 510-848-1155 Fax: 510-848-1008 email: freeburma@irn.org

 **********attachment**********


FREE BURMA! - Boycott Unocal -

Unocal 76 is involved in a natural gas venture with one of the
world's most brutal and repressive military regimes, Burma's State
Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC). SLORC has been
condemned by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. State Department, the
European Parliament, the United Nations Human Rights Commission,
the International Labor Organization, Amnesty International, and
ten Nobel Laureates. Oil corporations are one of the largest
sources of income for the SLORC regime, helping them maintain a
reign of terror.

THE DEADLY DEAL

In February 1995, Unocal signed a contract with SLORC to extract
and transport natural gas using a pipeline from the Yadana Field
located 43 miles off Burma's coast. The field is estimated to have
a market value of $6.5 billion. Unocal is a 28.26 percent
shareholder in this project. Its other project partners include
Total of France with 31.24 percent, the Petroleum Authority of
Thailand Exploration and Production Public Co. Ltd. with 25.5
percent, and the Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE) with 15
percent.  Unocal's current net share of payments to SLORC to gain
the concession is about $10 million. Unocal and its partners will
get $400 million annually from Thailand for the gas.

THE PIPELINE KILLING FIELD

The gas pipeline will run for 218 miles, of which 41 miles cross
southern Burma's Tenasserim division on the way to Thailand. The
gas pipeline will go through a variety of ecosystems including
dense tropical forest, disrupting the habitat of rare animals such
as tigers, rhinos and elephants. The pipeline area is the homeland
of the Karen, Mon and Tavoy peoples. This venture is currently
linked to forced village relocation, the forced labor of tens of
thousands of local inhabitants, and fatalities at the hands of the
SLORC troops.  This entire region is a war zone due to the ethnic
peoples' need to defend themselves against SLORC attacks, making
the region highly unstable.

HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES

Pillaging, Torture and Rape

The Karen Human Rights Group (KHRG) and the Human Rights
Foundation of Monland both monitor and report on human right
violations in the Karen and Mon areas of Burma. Both groups have
collected the testimony of hundreds of Karen and Mon villagers,
exposing a litany of heinous acts by SLORC troops linked to the
construction of ancillary pipeline infrastructure.  Local people
tell of those too sick to work being beaten and tortured, forced
portering (carrying supplies), looting of homes and food supplies,
rape, and even murder for resisting orders. Despite these human
rights abuses, Unocal denies any responsibility and refuses to
suspend operations until an independent investigation confirms the
abuses.

Forced Relocation

Since 1991, at least 12 Karen and Mon villages were moved by SLORC
to make way for battalion stations and Unocal/Total's field
headquarters. In 1995, at least 12 Light Infantry Battalions (LIB)
conducted major military offenses in an attempt to secure the
eastern half of the route. Each battalion contains 300-500
soldiers. Eight battalions are located near one village alone
which houses many of the oil company workers. Villagers whose land
was taken or whose entire town was relocated were never
compensated.

Forced Labor

Because the area contains few roads suitable for large trucks and
heavy traffic, SLORC began building and improving roads and
railways using the labor of unpaid villagers. SLORC troops invade
peaceful villages demanding men, women and children to work for at
least two week shifts. These people are taken from their homes,
ordered to bring their own food, clothing and blankets, and
brought to road and railway construction sites where they live in
unsanitary conditions with little food, clean water and no medical
treatment. Families that fail to provide workers are fined, often
the equivalent of their yearly income. Men and women are forced to
break rocks and carry dirt to build railways, trenches, and roads
for the pipeline security forces, and made to cut trees for lumber
to build military bases. As a result people are dying of beatings,
malnutrition, sickness and starvation.

Some of the most extensive forced labor and abuses occur at the
Ye-Tavoy railway, where over 100,000 people have been forced to
work. It is widely thought that this railway will be used to bring
equipment and more troops to the area. Unocal claims they will not
use the railway for the pipeline development, but they do not deny
that SLORC battalions will use the railway, with whom Unocal has
contracted to provide security for the pipeline.

In April 1996, the KHRG announced that forced labor is occurring
on the pipeline itself. Villagers are taken by SLORC troops to
build "pipeline roads," which will run alongside the pipe. The
troops tell the people they will be paid, but this rarely happens.
Villagers are not only forced to work with no compensation they
are also forced to pay fees described as "porter fees",
"development funds", "railway and pipeline fees" to every military
camp. Reprecht von Arnim, United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees in Thailand, stated in the Asian Wall Street Journal, "I
I know slave labor has been used for other purposes, and once the
gas pipeline is to start, it is most likely that it will be done
the same way."

Violence directly related to the pipeline

In reference to threats by the Karen and Mon armies, who are
trying to protect their people, Unocal president John Imle said:
"If you threaten the pipeline, there's going to be more military.
If forced labor goes hand in glove with military, yes, there will
be more forced labor. For every threat to the pipeline there will
be a reaction." According to the KHRG, on February 2, 1996, an
unknown armed group, using rocket launchers, killed four people
near Total's field office. In retaliation, SLORC battalion LIB 403
executed eleven Karen civilians. SLORC accused the villagers of
supporting the attackers. Other villagers were told by the
battalion that they would come back and kill more people if Total
was informed of the retribution. Unocal continues to deny its
connection to these types of summary executions and human rights
violations, and maintains there will be only benefits for the
local people.

Company Claims: Insult to Injury

The corporations boast that the project will bring employment,
education and training, health care and useful technology to
thousands of people. Unocal, in consultation with Total, claims to
be implementing projects such as free medical services,
agricultural assistance, and to be paying fair wages for pipeline
work.

The KHRG reports that sometimes the oil companies give wage money
for the villagers to SLORC commanders who pocket the money. In
very few cases the villagers are paid directly by the oil
companies.

The minuscule amount of assistance by the oil companies pales when
compared to the amount of strife affecting the Mon, Karen and
Tavoy people due to the endless cycle of military-induced abuses
in the area. The Karen, Mon and Tavoyans are seeking refuge in
Thailand because of the forced labor and other SLORC brutalities.
This transient and impoverished lifestyle is preferred over that
of one where SLORC poses a constant danger. There is little the
oil companies can give to compensate for or replace the livelihood
the local people once had.

Environmental Ruin

Exploration, development and production of natural gas has similar
risks as oil extraction activities. Impacts from gas exploitation
include dumping toxic drilling muds (including radioactive
materials), air pollution from drilling rigs, and releases of
toxic chemicals such as hydrogen sulfide into the sea and air.

The ecology of the pipeline area is very diverse, ranging from
coastal wetlands to one of the last mountainous dense tropical
forests in Burma. Just south of the pipeline area, also in the
Tenassarim watershed, the Karen have established a protected
wildlife sanctuary which contains tigers, rhinoceros, elephants
and other rare species.

Unocal and Total have not publicly released any environmental
assessment study. Projected environmental impacts from the
pipeline include destruction to wetlands and mangrove ecosystems,
forest clearing, fragmentation of habitat and disruption of
biological corridors, establishment of logging concessions, and
increased poaching of endangered species.

Burma's Struggle for Democracy

In the late 1980s a growing democracy movement gained widespread
support from the entire spectrum of Burmese society, including its
diverse ethnic nationalities. People took to the streets to
demonstrate for democracy, but the military retaliated in the
summer of 1988 by gunning down thousands of civilians. Soon
afterward the military announced that the State Law and Order
Restoration Council would rule the country. Years of ruthless and
violent repression against all citizens have been the result.  On
May 27, 1990, SLORC held elections and the National League for
Democracy (NLD) gained 80 percent of the seats. SLORC nullified
the election results and placed NLD leaders under arrest,
including Aung San Suu Kyi. In 1991, Aung San Suu Kyi won the
Nobel Peace Prize, but remained a prisoner under house arrest
until her release in July of 1995. Despite Ms. Suu Kyi's release,
which many hoped would spark an improvement in human rights
standards, widespread political repression, human rights abuses,
abject poverty, forced labor, and summary executions continue
unabated.

The Ethics and Economics of Investing

SLORC has made the economy a shambles, strengthened its civil war
against the ethnic nationalities, and turned Burma into a United
Nations "Least Developed Country" (LDC). SLORC rapaciously
exploits natural resources and sells them to foreign interests,
which keeps the regime propped up and further impoverishes the
ethnic nationalities. Most foreign revenue is derived from natural
gas and oil reserves.

Investment and business ethics analysts argue that doing business
with SLORC surpasses the threshold of ethical business guidelines.
According to Richard DeGeorge, director of the International
Center for Ethics in Business at the University of Kansas, "One of
the guidelines I would put out is that a company should not
knowingly cooperate with any supplier, government or other
enterprise that engages in slavery, slave labor, or even child
labor.  Saying,'We know they're doing it, but we're not doing it',
doesn't let you off the hook. If you know it's being done, you're
ethically responsible for it. It's your responsibility to mitigate
the harm they're doing to those people. They can't simply be
ignored."

Many economists believe that investment in Burma is just bad
business. Recent reports by the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank cited in The Economist (4/6/96), conclude that
neither Burma's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) nor its agricultural
output have reached the previous levels of the mid-1980s

North American Companies

Not all companies choose to remain in the dark about SLORC's
abuses. Liz Claiborne, Macy's, Eddie Bauer, Reebok, Levi-Strauss,
Amoco and Petro-Canada have all withdrawn their operations.
Levi-Strauss pulled out in 1992, stating, "... under current
circumstances, it is not possible to do business in Myanmar
without directly supporting the military government and its
pervasive violations of human rights." Unocal's slogan is "We Get
It." While this may be true when it comes to bathrooms at gas
stations, they clearly don't "Get It" when it comes to human
rights and democracy.

Burma: The South Africa of the 90s

During a 1993 visit to Thailand with six other Nobel Laureates to
call for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, Archbishop Desmond Tutu
said, "International pressure can change the situation in Burma.
Tough sanctions, not'constructive engagement', finally brought the
release of Nelson Mandela and the dawn of a new era in my country.
This is the language that must be spoken with tyrantsQfor sadly,
this the only language they understand."

"These people are hurrying in to make cosy business deals while
pretending that nothing is wrong," Aung San Suu Kyi told The Times
Magazine.  "They need to be reminded that this is one of the most
brutal military regimes in the world and putting money into the
country now is Jsimply supporting a system that is severely
harmful to the people of Burma."

The exile National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma
elected in 1990 and many of the ethnic nationalities have called
upon the world community to impose economic and arms sanctions
against SLORC. In support of Burma's democracy movement, we call
on Unocal/Total to withdraw their shares in the gas pipeline
project. We ask that all corporations not engage in any business
in Burma until a democratic government is in place. Foreign
revenue only lines the pockets of SLORC officials and helps keep
the brutal regime in power.

What you can do

% Write or call the CEOs of Unocal and Total. Tell them to
withdraw from Burma

% Don't invest in Unocal or Total stock, or sell your stock and
tell them why

% Don't buy Union 76 or Total gas and other products and tell them
why.

% Cut up your credit card and send it back to Unocal or Total,
tell them why.

% Send $5.00 for our activist's packet to become more involved.
Send to IRN, 1847 Berkeley Way, Berkeley, CA 94703.

% Help support our effort by donating funds to IRN's Burma
Project.

% Join the Free Burma Coalition. Call 608-256-6572 or email:
zni@students.wisc.edu

Send letters and cut-up charge cards to:

Roger Beach, CEO / Unocal Corporation / 2141 Rosecrans Blvd.,
Suite 4000 / El Segundo, CA 90245 / Tel: 310-726-7600

Gary Jones, CEO / Total North America / Total Tower, 900 19th
Street / Denver, CO 80202 / Tel: 303-291-2000
.
<hr>19/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-250</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108150905 text/html 3992
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:07:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3834
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: Action Alert
Date: 28 May 1996 14:41:01



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
                        ACTION ALERT
May 27, 1996
As of this writing the impasse between the Zapatista Army of
National Liberation (EZLN) and the Mexican government
remains unresolved.  The recent sentence of two "alleged"
members of the EZLN to long prison terms with no significant
evidence against them and a complete lack of due process has
caused the EZLN to declare the "impossibility" of a
continuance of the peace talks.
Because these political prisoners are literally hostages of
the peace process the National Commission for Democracy, USA
has declared the need for a national campaign for their
liberation. Until such liberation occurs, the Mexican
government will continue to utilize them to extort
concessions at the negotiating table and/or use their
imprisonment against accountability to any agreements.  The
EZLN has also called upon the Mexican government to take
some definitive action against the para-military groups and
"death" squads which are openly operating in the state of
Chiapas.
The present impasse in combination with a widespread famine
due to the inability of indigenous communities to lay in
crops, present the same crisis as existed in February 9th of
1995, and December of 1994.
We therefore call upon all interested individuals and
organizations to aid us in increasing international pressure
upon the Mexican government by collaborating with us in a
Campaign for the Liberation of the Political Prisoners.
Although there exists some possibility the impasse may be
resolved this week, it is our belief that an international
campaign calling for the freedom of these prisoners has
become a primordial need.  We therefore will carry out this
Campaign regardless of the outcome of this present crisis.
The campaign for the Liberation of these prisoners consists
of the following;
     1) We ask all concerned individuals to initiate the
campaign with a simultaneous
      press conference to be held June 3-5th.  A history of
the irregularities contained
      in their imprisonment can be obtained through the
National Center for Democracy, Liberty and Justice at this
address.

     2)  A letter-writing campaign to Warren Christopher at
the State Department will     be conducted throughout the
period of June 5 through July 1.  We call upon    people to
hold educationals about this issue and to otherwise
publicize in any way     possible the lack of human rights
in Mexico.  A sample of the letter to Christopher      is
included with this alert.  Please call upon prominent
national and local leaders    to add their voices to this
petition in order to demonstrate the concern for a continued
peace process.

     3)  The campaign will end on July 1 by culminating in a
    National Day of Reflection and Prayer.  We call upon
                    Churches, individuals
           committed to peace, and community leaders to
                participate in this Day in a
public demonstration of
     support for the liberation of these prisoners
and the end to paramilitary operations in Chiapas.

  Please contact the National Center for Democracy,
Liberty and Justice for
further information.  We hope you share our great
hope
for peace in Mexico and we urge you to do whatever you
can to demonstrate this hope by your participation in
this campaign.


.
<hr>20/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-251</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-212</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108150950 text/html 1911
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:09:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1753
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: update: another prisoner sentenced
Date: 28 May 1996 16:06:03


Update

     Recent news from Mexico indicates that Mexico's State
Department remains intransigent towards the EZLN.
Negotiator Marco Antonio Bernal stated today that:
     1) the federal gov't is not considering any "violent"
action
     2) the sentencing of the prisoners proceeds and the law
which governs the   peace is not a "straightjacket"
     3)the EZLN should bring any issues to the negotiating
table on June 5th or
     re-set a date.

     Meanwhile, in Veracruz, Francisco Garcia Santiago, a
presumed Zapatista, was found guilty and sentenced to 7
years in jail and a fine of $15,000 pesos.  Santiago was
sentenced based upon a confession obtained from him after
members of his family had been kidnapped by state police and
threats to their safety were used to obtain his confession.
He was sentenced for the sabotage of an electrical tower in
Veracruz.

Taken from La Jornada 5/28/96

NCDLJ



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
 * This message contains the file 'upd528.asc', which has been
 * uuencoded. If you are using Pegasus Mail, then you can use
 * the browser's eXtract function to lift the original contents
 * out to a file, otherwise you will have to extract the message
 * and uudecode it manually.

.
<hr>21/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-252</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B024-256</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108151030 text/html 3011
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:09:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2853
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: MOONLIGHT@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: Warren Christopher SAMPLE LETTER
Date: 30 May 1996 20:32:38



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
 Secretary of State Warren Christopher
2201 C. St. NW
Washington, D.C.  20520



Dear Sir,

     We, the undersigned wish to express a high level of concern
about the growing crisis in Mexico and the real possibility of
the outbreak of hostilities once again in the southeast state of
Chiapas.  The growing evidence of human rights violations, links
to drug trafficking on a high governmental level, and the
continued impunity of paramilitary groups, have provoked a
massive exodus of families seeking relief from the political and
economic crisis.
     Because Mexico is our closest neighbor in Latin America we
cannot remain silent before the consequences of this crisis.  We
therefore request the response of the State Department in terms
of the following issues;

      1) We understand that Mexico is receiving substantial
military equipment  from the United States.  Although the
objective of these sales is said to be aid in the drug war, we
request information about the guarantees which exist that this
equipment will not be used for other purposes such as
counterinsurgency  and government responses to civil unrest.
This equipment includes the recent sale of 73 Huey helicopters.
We are also interested in clearly understanding the current
working relationships to both train the Mexican military and
replace any weapons ten years or older for the Mexican Army.
     2) We request any current information on the state of
human
rights in Mexico.  Specifically we need to know current
governmental responses to paramilitary groups and/or "deaths
quads", and to the protection of the human rights of the 18
individuals presently jailed under accusation of being members
of the rebel group in Chiapas, the Zapatistas.
     3)  We request any information which the State Department
may have about the possible breakdown of the peace talks in
Chiapas, Mexico.

     We strongly affirm our commitment to a peaceful solution
and a transition to democracy for Mexico.  We do not believe
that our southern border can bear the economic and humanitarian
brunt of a growing and debilitating political and economic
crisis in Mexico. We urge your prompt response and look forward
to policies which strengthen the possibilities for peace in
Mexico.  Thank you for your attention.

Respectfully,




.
<hr>22/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-253</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-10</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108151116 text/html 7655
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:10:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7497
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: hib@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: Haiti Info v.4 #15 IMF IN HAITI
Date: 02 Jun 1996 11:35:28 -0800 (PST)

From: Haitian Information Bureau  hib@igc.apc.org 

(Below is the table of contents and lead story from the most
recent issue of Haiti Info, the newsletter of the Haitian
Information Bureau.  The lead story from each bi-weekly issue is
posted in this conference.  To receive the entire newsletter, you
may subscribe by email, fax or mail. See the subscription
information at the end of this entry).

                 *   *   *   HAITI INFO   *   *   *

            News direct from the people and organizations 
             of Haiti's democratic and popular movement

                    1 June 1996, Vol. 4, #15

       ***   HAITI INFO now has photos in every issue   ***

Contents:
                    PREVAL: ON ALL FRONTS
                    OVER IN PARLIAMENT
                    CAMDESSUS VISIT: NOT ALL THAT ROSY
                    REPRESSION IN NORTH
                    TWO ASSOCIATIONS
                    ATTACKS ON THE PRESS
From Grande Ande:   KASEKs ANGRY


Story:


                 CAMDESSUS VISIT: NOT ALL THAT ROSY

PORT-AU-PRINCE, May 29 - Michel Camdessus, Director of the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), came here to sign an accord. 

Over three weeks ago, President Rene Preval and his government had 
announced "negotiations" with the IMF  would end May 23, so he and 
Camdessus could sign the document that was supposed to finish 
charting Haiti's neoliberal course.  But evidently, things did not 
go quite as planned. There were some discordant notes from the 
orchestra. [See also page 1] (Even if the notes are taken care of, 
there are other hoops to jump through. A draft document has to go 
to Washington, D.C., and then, according to Minister of Finance 
Fred Joseph, approval should come in early July, supposedly 
unleashing US$120 million to balance this year's budget and "up to 
US$950 million for three years" worth of projects. What Joseph did 
not mention is that the US$1,070 million would more than double 
Haiti's foreign debt.) 

In order not to lose face, and at the same time to not jeopardize 
what had been in preparation for such a long time and with great 
investment, Camdessus and Preval staged a little theater and 
signed a "joint communique" which says the IMF and the Haitian 
government agree on the broad lines of reforms to be enacted here, 
but which basically has no meaning. 

At the same time, perhaps worried parliament might not cooperate, 
or that the Haitian people, who in the past have campaigned 
valiantly against the IMF, still might cause problems, Preval and 
Camdessus took advantage of the presence of the top enforcement 
officer of the "new world order" to continue the campaign to 
convince people that Haiti has no other choice but to undergo 
structural adjustment.

The Home Stretch

The two men worked well together since, according to Camdessus, he 
and Preval have "a complete identity of view... on what should be 
done and on the timetable." For 36 hours, they occupied the 
airwaves and met with as many "decision-makers" as possible, 
stressing the once-in-a-lifetime chance, the urgency, and Haiti's 
good luck at having such good friends.

Preval played his part, continually saying the country was in a 
"catastrophic" situation: "Haiti is in a situation, I'll repeat it 
again, where it is extremely difficult to even pay state 
employees... It's the last chance we have here!"

Camdessus met with representatives of the U.S., the World Bank and 
other players, the private sector and unions. He also saw former 
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide who, strangely, received him only 
two weeks after saying privatization was a "cigarette lit at both 
ends." Was Camdessus reminding him of his previous commitments? 
Did he get Aristide's support for his campaign? Or did they 
disagree? Nothing has filtered out and today the ex-president 
quietly left for Europe.

 At his other appearances, Camdessus played all his cards. He said 
the country will never get such a low interest rate or such a huge 
amount again. He even said that if the country does not act now, 
other countries could get the funds earmarked for Haiti. (He later 
took that statement back.) He spoke of "the necessity of profiting 
from this moment of grace, this exceptional moment" of 
"democracy." The country must "convince the international 
community that Haiti has a program." 

In a 90-minute interview on Radio Haiti Inter, he calmly and 
without irony explained "the objective of our program is the 
betterment of the human condition" and, to criticism of 
privatization, said: "If the privatization was a bad formula, why 
would I recommend it? I am here to share with you only what really 
works all over the world." 

"If there was any substance behind the inscriptions on the walls 
around here [anti-IMF graffiti], there would not be 80 to 90 
countries that had programs or were negotiating with us," he said. 
"The fact that there are so many... shows that we are improving 
the human condition in those countries." 

Unhappily, it was not a "call-in" program. If it had been, 
Camdessus would have learned that the Haitian people are not 
stupid and know perfectly well the disastrous effects of the 
adjustment programs. Instead, rather than being challenged in a 
democratic debate, he was given 90 minutes of air-time to speak 
freely to listeners all over the country.

An Unavoidable Visit

As expected, Camdessus met with cabinet members. But circumstances 
also obliged him to go to parliament. Dep. Fritz Robert St. Paul, 
the vice president of the National Assembly who said he opposes 
neoliberalism because it will increase the country's dependence, 
said Camdessus spoke to the lawmakers of the success of 
adjustment.

"He said there are 181 countries in the world that have done 
structural adjustments and their economies did fine... and we 
asked for examples. He gave us Bolivia, he gave us Peru. We 
disagreed... [and said] don't confuse growth with economic 
development," St. Paul said. "He did not convince us and he saw 
that we were sufficiently informed to see that nobody would make 
us think the moon is made of green  cheese." 



ABOUT HAITI INFO:

* Haiti Info is published every two weeks in Haiti by the 
Haitian Information Bureau, an alternative news agency, and 
is edited by a group of committed individuals from democratic 
and popular sectors. 
* All articles Copyright HIB. REPRINTS ENCOURAGED.  
Please cite Haiti Info and send copies of usage.
* Haiti Info is available by mail, by fax, and also 
electronically via computer. 

Subscription rates: 
 
Individuals E-mail                     - US$20
Organizations E-mail                   - US$70


  [Those fees negotiable for journalists and non-profits]

Write for more information, help for journalists, subscription 
costs for mail and fax:
Haitian Information Bureau, 
c/o Lynx Air, Box 407139, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, 33340, USA.
For electronic mail:  hib@igc.apc.org.


** End of text from cdp:reg.carib **
.
<hr>23/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-254</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-35</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108151206 text/html 5875
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:11:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5717
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: Privitization Splits Peruvians
Date: 04 Jun 1996 13:55:37 -0800 (PST)

Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.           
Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 31-May-96 ***

Title: PERU: Unemployment Haunts People While Politicians Wrangle 
by Abraham Lama

LIMA, May 31 (IPS) - President Alberto Fujimori and the opposition parties are at
loggerheads over the economic development model in Peru, but most of the
population is more concerned with simply finding a way to scrape a living.

Since Fujimori came to power in 1990, he has taken a strict neoliberal line carried
on the basic pillars of removing the State from economic activity, developing the
private sector and the rapid attraction of foreign investment.

Meanwhile, the opposition is trying to put the spanner in the works of privatisation
- the keystone of Fujimori's policies.  The left, and a sector of the Union For Peru,
the biggest opposition party, threw themselves into raising a million signatures
calling for a referendum to stop the imminent privatisation of the Petroperu oil
company.

Opposition daily 'La Republica' said some 65 percent of the people consulted in a
survey they carried out, were against the idea of breaking up Petroperu and selling
it to the private sector.

However, at the same time some 62 percent of the population support the Fujimori
government and generally approve of his economic measures, producing a strong
contradiction between global support of the government economic policy and the
rejection of one measure included within this.

But this issue seems little important when compared with the results of another
opinion poll, which shows the rate of concern about unemployment in Peru.

Everybody questioned by the Datam institute said there were several problems
with the nation, and 68 percent of the people cited unemployment as their main
concern. The economic situation was also mentioned by 49 percent.

The third biggest worry is poverty, which worried 37 percent of the interviewees,
and the question of privatisations which was mentioned by 22 percent.

Up until 1993, terrorism was the main citizen concern, but now, though political
violence does still exist it is no longer seen as the most worrying element.

The main social anxiety has moved onto the lack of employment for a population
growing at the rate of 2.2 percent per year, while the amount of jobs available has
been falling for the last four years.

Fujimori was reelected in 1995 after he used the military to defeat the guerrilla and
economic policies to end the hyperinflation which met him when he came to
power.

The president made the most of his victory in the constitutional referendum of
1992 and the 1995 elections to speed up economic reform, and is now ready for a
second wave of privatisation starting with the sale of Petroperu.

By selling off public shares, Fujimori aims to eliminate a large part of the fiscal
deficit represented by these companies, also seeking to attract investment in order
to broaden the employment market.

From 1993 to date, the State made an income of 4.6 billion dollars on the public
companies sold, and the buyers also promised to invest a further five billion dollars
in them.

The second wave of privatisation, is planned to raise another four billion dollars
with further promised investments of five billion dollars.

Fujimori is confident he will be able to pay part of the eight billion dollars owed to
foreign banks with the income from this process. The rest of the debt, reduced by
half under the Brady Plan, will be paid in 30-year bonds.

Between 1991 and 1993, the president made around 300,000 workers, public and
private, redundant, stressing that the increase in private economic enterprise would
absorb the surplus. But this has not happened and there is a certain disenchantment
in public opinion. Popular support for the government, which stood at nearly 80
percent two years ago, fell to a healthy, but not as impressive 62 percent in recent
months.

Eduardo Farah, president of the National Industries Society, said the government
was excessively optimistic in its assumptions that the manufacturing sector will
grow from three to 4.5 percent this year.

In his opinion, even if this goal is reached, unemployment will not be significantly
reduced.

''The only sector with rapid growth capable of generating a great demand for
workers is industry, but the government is prioritising mining, agriculture and
tourism, which can only absorb 35 percent of the economically active population,''
he warned. (END/IPS/tra-so/al/ff/sm/96)


Origin: Montevideo/PERU/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or   service outside  of 
the  APC  networks,  without  specific   permission from IPS.  This limitation
includes distribution via Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,  
print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-   posting, send  a 
message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For information  about  print or  broadcast
reproduction please   contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .


.
<hr>24/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-255</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-79</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108151304 text/html 6693
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:12:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6535
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: D'GAP FORUM ON ALTERNATIVES TO
Date: 31 May 1996 12:28:10 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.    
      Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.
 
                      *** 26-May-96 ***
 
Title: AMERICAS-ECONOMY: In Search of Democratic Economic Options
 
By Peter Zirnite
 
WASHINGTON, May 26 (IPS) - Opponents of rampant free trade have
called for alternatives to policies they say have failed to
benefit the vast majority of people in the Americas.
 
The ''invisible hand of the market'' is strangling social and
political progress in Latin America and the Caribbean, according
to critics at a meeting organized by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), which has played a key role in advancing
free-market reforms in the region.
 
''After 25 years, the results are - at the very least -
questionable, in terms of economic development,'' said former
Costa Rican Minister of Economic Planning Otton Solis, now a
member of the National Assembly, where he chairs the economic
committee.
 
''It is high time,'' he continued, ''to raise these questions and
try to find alternatives.''
 
His remarks came at the IDB's 'Forum on Democratic Alternatives
to Structural Adjustment in the Americas' - part of an on-going
dialogue aimed at developing measures to address the shortcomings
of neoliberalism.
 
Atherton Martin, chairman of Dominica's Development and Planning
Corporation, advised the IDB that whatever economic model
replaces neoliberalism must be more democratic -- ''based on the
knowledge, history, culture and survival mechanisms of the
people.''
 
Imposing economic policies from the top down, he said, ''is like
planting a seed in a rock.''
 
Alejandro Nadal, a professor of economics at the Colegio de
Mexico, called for the renegotiation of debt. He claimed
economies, such as Mexico's ''cannot grow and service its foreign
debt at the same time''. He also called for the suspension of all
privatisation of state enterprises.
 
A sound, equitable economy policy, he added, also would aim to
redirect speculative capital flows into productive investments
and to increase credit for small and medium-size enterprises. 
This, he said, must be coupled with a ''frontal attack on
corruption and the squandering of public resources.''
 
IDB officials acknowledged the shortcomings of free-market
policies.
 
While they have produced ''some positive results,'' IDB manager
for strategic planning Steve Quick admitted, these reforms also
have resulted in a considerable amount of ''social dislocation,''
including growing income inequality.
 
The economists, political leaders and activists addressing the
conference -- sponsored by the Washington-based Development Group
for alternative Policies (Development GAP) -- made it clear that
what is needed is not a palliative, but a entirely new economic
prescription based on democratic principles.
 
Structural Adjustment Policies (SAPs),  used by the IDB, the
World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other
international financial institutions (IFIs), are meant to bring
macroeconomic stability and greater global competitiveness to
client nations through fiscal discipline, trade liberalisation,
and financial deregulation.
 
Among other measures, countries undergoing ''adjustment'' to
free-market economies often are forced to privatise state-owned
enterprises, slash public spending, eliminate government
subsidies, tighten credit and redirect industrial and
agricultural production for export markets.
 
Solis pointed to Costa Rica's experience with free-market
reforms, focusing on the economic failures rather than the
staggering social costs.
 
Prior to the imposition of SAPs, he said, the annual national
trade deficit averaged 88 million dollars, but after nine years
under the neoliberal regime it stands at 514 million dollars.
 
Costa Rica's experience is not unusual, argued Brazilian
economist Maria Clara Couto Soares. Free-market policies have
resulted in crippling trade deficits, she explained, because most
small and medium-sized firms cannot compete with the flood of
imports from multinational corporations, partly because they lack
access to credit.
 
As a result, she said, many countries are experiencing ''de-
industrialisation'' as an increasing number of local businesses
go bankrupt. In Brazil, Soares pointed out, industrial employment
fell from 4.2 million people in 1985 to 3.0 million by 1992.
 
Neoliberalism has been especially devastating for the region's
small-state economies, according to Martin. He said it was a
''fantasy'' that the economies of smaller states can be
restructured to be globally competitive.
 
Martin questioned the basic premise of neoliberalism that
market forces allocate resources most efficiently, noting that
many Caribbean states that were once self-sufficient must now
import food. In Dominica, he noted, ''we import fish, and we are
surrounded by water.''
 
The failure of free-market reforms, Martin argued, is rooted in
the fact that these policies ''largely have been made by people
outside our countries'' and ''those within who don't have to
worry about where the next meal is coming from.''
 
Martin, Solis and other participants stressed that they were not
opposed to trade or efforts to improve government efficiency,
just the heavy-handed way they have been imposed without concern
for ''the people on the ground.'' (END/IPS/pz/yjc/96)
 
 
Origin: Rome/AMERICAS-ECONOMY/
                              ----
 
       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved
 
  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or  
service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific  
permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via 
Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print
media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-  posting,
send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information 
about  print or  broadcast reproduction please    contact the IPS
coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>25/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-256</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-120</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108151405 text/html 5409
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:13:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5251
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Mexican Recovery?
Date: 31 May 1996 12:28:14 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.    
      Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.
 
                      *** 27-May-96 ***
 
Title: MEXICO-ECONOMY: Recovery coming?
 
By Eduardo Molina y Vedia
 
MEXICO, May (IPS) - Optimistic government officials predict that
a recovery for Mexico's battered economy is just months away and
even opposition critics are less strident in their disagreement
while putting forward alternative policies.
 
The government is betting on a plan that will reduce social
programs, pay the large and growing debt on time, reduce
inflation, lower purchasing power and reduce the size of internal
markets.
 
President Ernesto Zedillo declared only last week that the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would increase in the second quarter
of this year by about five percent over 1995.  This was after the
GDP for the first quarter of 1996 dropped one percent on the same
period last year.
 
Economic researcher Octavio Rodriguez Araujo, of the National
Autonomous University of Mexico, however, maintained that
comparing one year to another isn't a good measure of the
economic recovery of the recession which began in December of
1994.
 
Rodriguez noted that the second quarter of 1995 was the period
when production was at its lowest level since the start of the
crisis.
 
Official estimates of a GDP growth of 2.6 percent for 1996 are
being revised upwards by private and government forecasters. If,
however, growth were to reach three percent - as predicted by the
President of the Business Coordinating Council, Hector Larios -
predicted last week, it would be much lower than the seven
percent decline in GDP experienced in 1995.
 
''Neoliberalism has not been a boon to social welfare or
socioeconomic development. This has changed the false belief that
there is no other realistic alternative,'' Rodriguez said.
 
One of the better known alternative proposals is that of the
Civic Alliance, the largest network of non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) in Mexico. Leading economists participated
in drafting the plan and the Alliance gathered 300,000 signatures
supporting it.
 
The plan calls for negotiating the foreign debt, jump-starting
local consumption, and debt forgiveness to viable firms, all in
order to reduce unemployment.
 
According to Rodriguez Araujo, we already saw the limits of
extreme neoliberal policies in the 1980's. He cited as an example
the ''regulationism of French theoretician Michel Aglieta, which
combines private investment with State intervention to guarantee
a minimum of social welfare.''
 
''It is about regulating capital and investment flows in order to
stay healthy in the event of social upheavals over critical
needs,'' he asserted.
 
Another alternative proposal was offered by economist Arturo
Huerta in his recent book ''Causes of the Mexican Economic Crisis
and Solutions.''
 
Huerta stresses the need ''for a long term perspective based on
the democratization of society, and not solely dependent on
market forces, that have proven incapable of regulating the
economy.''
 
He disagrees with ''hard contractionist policies that limit
growth'' and proposes ''a program that recovers economic and
political decision-making capabilities in order to build a future
within the context of sustained and equitable growth.'' He also
proposes to restructure the State's regulatory apparatus to
enable it to better coordinate the activities off all economic
agents.
 
He also proposes to do away with Central Bank autonomy and with
the goal of monetary stability, ''because it postpones economic
growth,'' and he also would like to see more inter-company credit
and to postpone commercial debt payment.
 
He cites the following example, ''If company A sells to company B
on credit, and B in turn sells to C also on credit, C could pay B
by selling to A.''
 
This alternative plan would require a shift in the current
economic policy of increasing exports and the flow of foreign
capital, by another based on an increase in production, savings,
and development of internal markets. (END/IPS/dg)
 
 
Origin: Rome/MEXICO-ECONOMY/
                              ----
 
       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved
 
  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or  
service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific  
permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via 
Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print
media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-  posting,
send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information 
about  print or  broadcast reproduction please    contact the IPS
coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>26/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-257</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-167</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108151446 text/html 4959
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:14:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4801
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Skepticism Over "Mexican Recov
Date: 31 May 1996 12:28:18 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.    
      Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.
 
                      *** 20-May-96 ***
 
Title: MEXICO-ECONOMY: Recovery or New Crisis?
 
By Eduardo Molina y Vedia
 
MEXICO, May 20 (IPS) - The slight improvment in Mexico's gross
domestic product (GDP) has failed to restore confidence in the
economy and strong intervention by the government is needed to
avoid any new collapse, according to business circles.
 
Business analysts expressed scepticism at government forecasts
that the GDP will soon regain three of the seven percentage
points it lost in 1995.  Opposition politicians sought changes in
the current neoliberal economic policies and the National Chamber
of Manufacturers (Canacintra) and the Confederation of Chambers
of Industry, meanwhile, called for measures to reactivate
internal markets.
 
The government reported that in the first quarter of 1996,
there was a trade surplus of 1.846 billion dollars on exports of
21.781 billion dollars and imports of 19.935 billion dollars. It
was the fifth straight quarter of trade surplus - in the first of
last year, the surplus was 597 million dollars.
 
Exports in the first quarter of this year rose 15.9 percent in
compared to the first quarter of 1995 which has helped the
economy at a time when there has been a reduction in internal
consumption.
 
Mexico's trade account was showing large deficits until the
financial crisis hit in December 1994.  For the whole of that
year Mexico's trade deficit was 27 billion dollars.
 
Government officials maintain the recession bottomed out in the
third quarter of 1995 and,  since then, the economy has
experienced a slight growth. Critics claim that not only is
growth slow, it is very uncertain.
 
Mexico's Finance Ministry forecasts GDP growth of three percent
for 1996. Alberto Gomez Alcala of the Mexican National Bank
(Banamex) - a major private concern - thinks that growth will be
only two percent.
 
Arturo Lomeli, coordinator of the Mexican Association for the
Study of Consumer Protection said that according to his polls,
sales are still weak at about 50 percent of the pre-crisis level.
Lomeli added that there is ''widespread anxiety over indications
that, due to the drought and lower farm production, in the short
term grain prices could increase up to 80 percent.''
 
There is ''real pressure from different commercial and
industrial sectors to raise prices,'' he added.
 
Meanwhile, interest rates on Treasury Certificates (Cetes) have
decreased in the last five weeks. However, the rate of 28 percent
is still several times more than the United States' prevailing
rates.
 
Researcher Irma Negrete, of Mexico's Autonomous National
University, assured IPS that the danger exists that ''once a
certain level of macroeconomic stability is achieved, it could
turn out to be too fragile and fleeting.''
 
High interest rates raise the financial costs of productive
companies. This coupled with the decline of the real wage,
worsens the recession and the problems of delinquency, Negrete
said.
 
She added that Mexico spent 13.2 billion dollars on foreign
interest in 1995 - about one-fifth of the national budget and
almost double the amount spent on investment.  It would be
impossible to foster economic growth unless there is a radical
change from what she termed a ''speculative'' economy to a
''productive'' economy.
 
''This will require a drastic change in governmental economic
policy,'' she said. ''This is not probable, given the constant
reaffirmation within government circles of their basic
principles.'' (END/IPS/dg/mk)
 
 
Origin: Rome/MEXICO-ECONOMY/
                              ----
 
       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved
 
  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or  
service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific  
permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via 
Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print
media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-  posting,
send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information 
about  print or  broadcast reproduction please    contact the IPS
coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>27/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-258</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B025-234</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108151542 text/html 6813
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:14:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6655
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Globalization Batters Canada
Date: 31 May 1996 12:28:22 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.    
      Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.
 
                      *** 26-May-96 ***
 
Title: CANADA-GLOBALISATION: Chretien Joins Chorus of Naysayers
 
by Stephen Dale
 
OTTAWA, May 26 (IPS) - Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien has
added his voice to the growing chorus of discontent over the
negative social impact of economic globalisation.
 
Speaking at a recent Vancouver meeting of former world leaders,
Chretien remarked that pressures from the global market have left
created a feeling among Canadians of ''not being able to control
our economic destiny.''
 
The Prime Minister, however,  attempted to put a positive spin on
the situation, saying, ''Globalisation is imposing a healthy
discipline that will result in healthier economies in the long
run.'' He also insisted that Canada will be able to adapt.
 
''We cannot stop globalisation, we need to adjust to it,'' he
said.
 
Despite the surface optimism, Chretien acknowledges the growing
perception that his government's economic policy - particularly
cuts to social spending - are being driven by external forces.
 
Some analysts, meanwhile, believe that social spending cuts are
radically changing the character of Canada. It is moving away
from ''the just society'' envisioned by former Prime Minister
Pierre Trudeau in the 1970s, to a more polarised, less generous
social climate similar to that in the United States, Canada's
largest trading partner.
 
''We seem to be headed in that direction, especially with the
most recent cuts to social spending,'' says Andrew Sharpe,
director of the Centre for the Study of Living Standards, an
independent economic think-tank in Ottawa.
 
''But I don't think Canada will go as far as the U.S.,'' Sharpe
says. ''We have fundamentally different values in this country,
so I don't think its inevitable that we have to follow the U.S.
model.  Very few people want to trade away our health system and
our society safety net for the ones that exist in the United
States.''
 
In an attempt to calm the fears of international bond rating
agencies, the Chretien government has cut its budget deficit by
slashing funding for the unemployment insurance programme. This
reduction will be followed by a one-third cut in transfer
payments to the provinces for health, welfare, and social
programmes.
 
In fact, public policy at the provincial level already looks more
like the U.S. version.
 
The new Conservative government in Ontario -- the nation's
industrial heartland -- has introduced a sweeping economic
package modelled on blueprints from the U.S. states of New Jersey
and Michigan, which lowered taxes on the wealthy, cut welfare and
education spending and gutted environmental and consumer
protection programmes.
 
Toronto Star columnist Dalton Camp, a former Conservative
strategist, warns that cutting government support for the poor
will lead to U.S.-style crime and other social problems.
 
By chopping services to pay for the upper-income tax cut
announced in early May, the Ontario government is ''weakening, if
not destroying the peaceful and orderly society it has built over
the years and which has made Ontario the role model for all
provinces,'' he says.
 
The Ontario government officials argue that their economic
package is needed to make the province competitive in the global
competition for investment. Their allies in the business
community say higher taxes on upper income earners drove
executives and other well-paid professionals to the United
States, and the tax break will lure them back.
 
Other community leaders believe Canada need not succumb to the
pressure of global competition.
 
Andrew Jackson, senior economist with the Canadian Labour
Congress, Canada's largest federation of trade unions, contends
that Canada already is competitive in world markets and does not
need to push down wages and labour standards.
 
The country's competitive edge, he says, is largely a result of
its devalued dollar and recent technological investments. He
added that labour costs are no longer an impediment because most
labour-intensive industries in Canada have already died under the
North American Free Trade Agreement.
 
''There's a segment of the corporate community which advocates
taking the low road of lower wages and longer hours of work, to
close the gap with 'right-to-work' states in the U.S.  So these
measures are being sold with this message,'' says Jackson.
 
''But most people realize that this is not the basis for making
Canada competitive with its trade partners,'' he continues.  ''If
we want to compete with Mexico on the basis of having lower
wages, we're never going to win that contest.''
 
With the percentage of the Canadian gross domestic product
linked to export production rising to 37 percent last year -- up
from 24 percent in 1991 -- critics believe the country is
increasingly vulnerable to the whims of the international market.
 
''That's an undesirable direction to move in. It's a much more
unbalanced economy, less amenable to political regulation,''
Jackson warns.
 
The dependence on exports may also make Canada more vulnerable to
U.S. trade retaliation.  In one celebrated case concluded in
April, Canada agreed to place a tax on softwood exports to the
United States, not because Canada was found to have violated the
NAFTA pact, but in response to continual U.S. threats to impose
tariffs on Canadian products. (END/IPS/SD/PZ/96)
 
 
Origin: Rome/CANADA-GLOBALISATION/
                              ----
 
       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved
 
  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or  
service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific  
permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via 
Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print
media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-  posting,
send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information 
about  print or  broadcast reproduction please    contact the IPS
coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>28/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-259</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-24</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108151628 text/html 5541
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:15:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5383
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: SAPs Batter Central America
Date: 31 May 1996 12:28:26 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.    
      Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.
 
                      *** 23-May-96 ***
 
Title: CENTRAL AMERICA-ECONOMY: Adjustment Brings Economic
Deceleration
 
By Silvio Hernandez
 
PANAMA CITY, May 23 (IPS) - The economies of countries in Central
America, which showed acceptable growth indices in the early
1990s, have slowed in direct relation to the neoliberal reforms
imposed in the region, according to analysts.
 
Costa Rica and Panama, once the most prosperous economies of the
area, saw their Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fall by 4.5 to 2.5
and 3.9 to 1.9 percent respectively in 1995, with greater
reductions expected this year. The Panamanian growth rate barely
topped the Latin American average by 0.2 percent while the
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)
calculated the continental mean for 1995 at 1.7 percent.
 
Analysts of the Association of American (US) Chambers of Trade in
Latin America (AACCLA) have painted a dismal picture for several
local economies during 1996.
 
According to their data, El Salvador and Nicaragua will be the
only Central American nations with acceptable growth rates - at
above five percent - while Costa Rica, Guatemala and Honduras
will only manage ''moderate'' GDP levels.
 
Panama, they predict, will see barely one percent growth.
 
However, El Salvador - which saw average growth of 6.12 percent
between 1991 and 1995 - has also gone into deceleration,
according to the National Association of Private Enterprise
(ANEP) this week.
 
ANEP president Hector Vidal, demanded the government explain why
the national economy had deteriorated since August 1995, while
the GDP for this year had increased by 6.1 percent.
 
Vidal told the administration; ''the time has come to accept the
macro economic achievements of the last few years are not enough
to guarantee future growth.''
 
Economists say the slow down has already shown negative effects
in job creation and many companies were going into liquidation.
Panamanian economist Juan Jovan told IPS that these economic
trends were a consequence of the adjustment plans imposed in the
region at a time when the world economy as a whole is in a
recessive phase.
 
''It is well known that this type of changes have to be done when
the international economic cycle is going up'' pulling the weaker
economies up with them despite their difficulties, he said.
 
If this is overlooked, Jovan added, the future panorama is of
greater poverty, increased unemployment, an even more shrunken
internal market and less resources in State control - due to
privatisation and tax reductions - available to meet the ''social
debt'' left by the adjustments.
 
 
Figures released by ECLAC, and the Central American Human
Rights Commission (Codehuca), show unemployment and poverty are
steaming ahead in line with the course of adjustment programmes.
 
In nations like Guatemala and Honduras, where GDP grew by 4.9 and
3.5 percent respectively, unemployment affects 67 and 39.2
percent of their economically active populations. Meanwhile, more
than 60 percent of the 30 million Central Americans are living in
absolute poverty.
 
Jovan also suggested the programmes should be brought in more
gradually to prevent the ruin of the productive sectors -
especially agriculture and industry which are not yet ready to
compete with imported products.
 
There may also be repercussion for civil society, and Jovan
predicted a future where the government marches one way, carrying
out its adjustment programmes come hell or high water, ''while
civil society marches the other.''
 
The Catholic Episcopal Secretariat of Central America said in
late 1995, that the implementation of the adjustments, with no
provision to alleviate the hunger of the poorest sectors ''it
heading for the destruction of the State.''
 
''The so called neoliberalism, with its pretext of liberty, leads
to the destruction of the State and carries with it selfish
attitudes which do not encourage equal opportunities and thus do
not encourage democracy, as this remains reduced to a merely
formal aspect,'' warned the bishops. (END/IPS/tra-so/sh/sm/96)
 
 
Origin: Rome/CENTRAL AMERICA-ECONOMY/
                              ----
 
       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved
 
  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or  
service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific  
permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via 
Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print
media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-  posting,
send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information 
about  print or  broadcast reproduction please    contact the IPS
coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>29/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-260</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-84</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108151721 text/html 3241
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:16:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3083
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: foodfirst@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export
Date: 03 Jun 1996 12:48:20 -0800 (PST)

/* Written 12:30 PM  Jun  3, 1996 by foodfirst in igc:dev.foodfirst */
/* ---------- "New Book on AID and Non-Trad Export" ---------- */
IMPORTANT NEW BOOK from 
Food First -- 
The Institute for Food and Development Policy 

* Critique of AID and Non-Traditional Export Agriculture 
* Environmental and social impacts
* structural adjustment
* globalization

(Order info below)

title:

A CAUTIONARY TALE: 
Failed U.S. Development Policy in Central America

by Michael Conroy, Douglas Murray and Peter Rosset 
May, 1996, Food First Development Studies, 
Lynne Rienner Publishers ISBN 1-55587-630-7


Neither structural adjustment policies, nor 
industrialization, nor traditional agricultural exports 
have led to sustained economic growth and social equity 
in Central America. Seeking to reinvigorate the region's 
struggling economies, U.S. AID -- supported by the World 
Bank and the IMF -- designed a new development policy, 
one based on nontraditional agricultural exports. Crops 
ranging from passion fruit and broccoli to macadamia 
nuts and melons, have been vigorously promoted through 
massive foreign aid and fierce pressure on local 
governments. 

This book dissects the varied impacts of a decade of 
this central AID policy -- impacts on the environment, 
on the livelihoods of thousands of small farmers, and on 
the sovereignty of elected governments. An anatomy of 
failure, of a policy gamble run amuck -- the book is a 
cautionary tale that is must reading for scholars, 
practitioners, policymakers and students of 
international development, economic globalization and 
U.S. foreign policy. 

hard cover only, $45.00 (no member discounts on this 
title, sorry). To order call our distributor, 
Subterranean Co., at 1-800-274-7826, or fill our coupon 
below: 


e-mail to foodfirst@igc.apc.org (w/credit card info) or 
print out and mail to Subterranean Company, Box 160, 265 
South 5th Street, Monroe, OR 97456 ---------------------
-------------------------------------------------------- 


Please send me _____ copies of A CAUTIONARY TALE: Failed 
U.S. Development Policy in Central America @ US $45.00 
each, plus shipping (U.S. $4 first copy, $1 each 
additional copy, abroad, $4 first book, $2.50 each 
additional book). 

Total enclosed _______ (including shipping) 

___ charge my __mastercard __visa card no. 
_____________________ exp ____ 


name ________________________

address _____________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________

tel: ________________________
.
<hr>30/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-261</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-130</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108151805 text/html 1653
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:17:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1495
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: update on Oventic
Date: 04 Jun 1996 06:49:17



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
             BULLETIN ABOUT OVENTIC: "ABANDONED"
                              
In the June 1 edition of La Jornada on page 16 there was an
article that included news on Oventic.  According to CONPAZ,
the residents of Oventic, in the municipality of San Andres
Larrainzar, abandoned their community on Friday, May 31st,
"because of the strong presence of the Army and the
insecurity of the region".  CONPAZ stated that the community
was "deserted" and the homes "abandoned".

             BULETIN SOBRE OVENTIC: "ABANDONADA"
                              
En la edicion del 1 de Junio, La Jornada en pagina 16
publico un articulo que incluya noticias sobre Oventic.
CONPAZ informo que los habitantes de Oventic, municipio de
San Andres Larrainzar, abandonaran hoy la comunidad "por la
fuerte presencia del Ejercito y la inseguridad de la
region".

Senalo que la comunidad esta "desierta" y las viviendas
"abandonadas".
                              

.
<hr>31/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-262</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-186</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108151852 text/html 12975
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:18:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 12816
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: International Call to Chiapas(Spani
Date: 04 Jun 1996 19:31:07

Subject:       International Call to Chiapas(Spanish and English)



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------



Convocatoria a la Jornada Mundial en Apoyo al "Dialogo de
San Andres".

El "Dialogo de San Andres", por la paz con justicia y
dignidad,
este en peligro. El gobierno mexicano ha dado claras senales
de su
intencion de romperlo, para asi justificar una salida
militar. La carencia
de propuestas y el bajo perfil de la delegacion
gubernamental a lo largo
de la Mesa 2 dedicada al tema "Democracia y Justicia", las
condenas a
Javier Elorriaga y Sebastian Entzin, presuntos zapatistas,
por los cargos
de terrorismo, la ambigiedad del poder ejecutivo al plantear
la forma de
revertir dichas condenas y la informacion calumniosa que
filtra el
gobierno a ciertos periodistas encargados de difamar la
causa de los
presuntos zapatistas, son prueba del intencional sabotaje
gubernamental al
proceso de paz. Las constantes y cada vez mas agresivas
incursiones
militares, la compra de equipos belicos y la proteccion a
los grupos
paramilitares que actuan en el estado de Chiapas, confirman
la intencion
del gobierno mexicano de justificar el reinicio de los
enfrentamientos
militares. Mientras la guerra de baja intensidad pasa a una
nueva etapa,
el gobierno mexicano ha lanzado un ultimatum diciendo que si
el EZLN no
acude a las negociaciones el proximo cinco de junio
reanudara la
persecucion judicial contra los zapatistas, lo cual
significaria de hecho
reaunudar la guerra.

Frente a esta grave situacion, el Ejercito Zapatista de
Liberacion
Nacional, ha declarado enfaticamente que, al no existir
condiciones
politicas minimas es imposible la continuacion del dialogo.
Por ello, ha
manifestado a la sociedad civil que si piensa hacer algo
para impedir la
solucion militar: a debe hacerlo ya!, exigiendo al gobierno
mexicano tomar
en serio el "Dialogo de San Andres".

Ante este momento crucial, entre la guerra y la paz,
Asesores e
Invitados del EZLN en el "Dialogo de San Andres" convocan a
los ciudadanos
del mundo, partidarios de una salida pacifica, justa y digna
de la guerra
en Chiapas, a realizar la 1a Jornada Mundial en apoyo al
"Dialogo de San
Andres", para exigir al gobierno crear las condiciones
necesarias para
alcanzar la paz. La Jornada se iniciara el proximo sabado 8
de junio
y continuara durante toda esa semana. Consistira en
movilizaciones simultaneas
frente a las embajadas y consulados mexicanos en todo el
mundo y en
multiples movilizaciones en Mexico. Comprendera ademas del
envio
de cartas al Presidente Ernesto Zedillo, 271-1764 (Fax) y
al Secretario de la Defensa Nacional, General Enrique
Cervantes. 395-2935
(Fax). Las principales demandas de esta Jornada seran:

 - El retiro de las tropas del ejercito mexicano a sus
cuarteles, en
cumplimiento del articulo 129 de la Constitucion mexicana,
el cese del
acoso a las comunidades chiapanecas y el envio de alimentos
a las
poblaciones ubicadas en la zona de conflicto, ya que el
acoso militar les
impidio sembrar.
- Retirar, por improcedentes los cargos de terrorismo Javier
Elorriaga y
Sebastian Entzin, y en consecuencia liberarlos de la carcel,
lo mismo que
a los otros 16 presuntos zapatistas presos.
- El reinicio de las platicas de paz, con una clara y
demostrable
decision de resolver los problemas que dieron origen al
levantamiento del
1o de enero de 1994.

Como simbolo de la Jornada proponemos soltar pequenos
"globos
aerostaticos" con un mensaje al EZLN que diga "No estan
solos", evocando
los globos enviados al mundo por los comuneros de Paris para
llamar a
defender la esperanza.

     Mucho agracederemos su participacion en estas Jornadas,
por la
vida y en contra de los actos guerreros del gobierno
mexicano.

     Ciudad de Mexico, a 23 de mayo de 1996.


     ASESORES E INVITADOS DEL EJERCITO ZAPATISTA DE
LIBERACION NACIONAL EN EL DIALOGO DE SAN ANDRES.
-------------------------------

          Call to action

International Week of Support for the San Andres Peace Talks
in Mexico

The San Andres Peace Talks for peace with justice and
dignity are in danger
of breaking down.  The Mexican government has clearly shown
its intention to
subvert the Peace Talks and to impose a military 'solution'
on the Zapatistas.

The Mexican government has not acted in good faith during
the second round
of Peace Talks on Democracy and Justice.  It has lacked
proposals for the Round
Table discussions, and the official government delegation is
composed of low
level bureaucrats who lack authority to negotiate in the
discussions.
Furthermore, even as it pretends to negotiate issues of
democracy and justice,
the Mexican government has arrested and condemned two
supposed Zapatistas -
Javier Elorriaga and Sebastian Entzin - to 14 years of jail
for unsubstantiated
charges of terrorism.  Both executive indecision on
reviewing this case and
leaks of slanderous information on the case from the
government to some
journalists who spread disinformation about the Elorriaga
and Entzin case are
part of an intentional government campaign to delegitimize
the Zapatistas'
position.

Menacing signs of the Mexican government's intention to
renew military
confrontation abound; constant and increasingly aggressive
military incursions
in Chiapas, purchase of military hardware, and the
protection of paramilitary
groups active in Chiapas.  While the low intensity warfare
reaches new levels of
activity, the Mexican government has imposed an ultimatum on
the Zapatistas.  If
the EZLN does not respond to government demands by June 5,
it will resume
judicial persecution of all presumed Zapatistas.  This is a
clear sign of the
Mexican government's transgression of the Peace Process and
a resumption of
a state of war.

In front of this serious situation, the Zapatista Army of
National Liberation
has declared that without even a minimal political will on
the part of the
government, it is impossible to continue a dialogue.  The
EZLN has told civil
society that if we want to do something to impede a military
solution - WE
MUST DO IT NOW!  We, civil society, must demand that the
government get serious about the San Andres Peace Talks.

At this crucial moment, between war and peace, the Advisors
and Observers for
the EZLN in the San Andres Peace Talks call all the citizens
of the world
interested in a peaceful, just and dignified solution to the
war in Chiapas, to
participate in and promote a Week of Support for the San
Andres Peace
Talks to pressure the Mexican government to create the
conditions necessary to reach a negotiated peace.

The Week of Support will begin Saturday, June 8, with
simultaneous
demonstrations for peace in front of Mexican embassies and
consulates through out the world, and with many
demonstrations throughout Mexico.  It will include sending
letters to:
     President Ernesto Zedillo     fax: (525)  271- 1764
     General Enrique Cervantes, Minister of National
Defense, (525)395-2935.

The principal demands of this week of Support are:
1. Withdrawal of Mexican army troops from Chiapas
communities and the retreat of Mexican army troops into
their barracks in fulfillment of Article 129 of the
Mexican Constitution.
2. Cessation of military harassment of Chiapas communities
and the delivery
of food and grains to the people living in the zone of
conflict; military action in
the area restricted farmers and peasants from planting their
subsistence crops
for the year.
3. Withdraw the unsubstantiated charges of terrorism against
Javier Elorriaga
and Sebastian Entzin, and free them from jail along with the
other 16 political
prisoners.
4. Reestablish the Peace Talks, with a clear and
demonstrable will to resolve
the problems that are at the root of the uprising of January
1, 1994.

As a symbol of the Week of Support, we propose that
participants launch
balloons in the air with the message to the EZLN saying "You
are NOT alone".  This action is reminiscent of the balloons
sent into the world by the members of the
communes of Paris in a call to defend their hope for a
better future.

Many thanks for your participation in the Week of Support,
in support of
life and against acts of war of the Mexican government.

Mexico City,

Group of Advisors and Observers of the EZLN in the San
Andres Peace Talks


    [The following text is in the "ISO-8859-1" character
set]
    [Your display is set for the "latin" character set]
    [Some characters may be displayed incorrectly]

Aufruf zur Internationalen Aktion zur Unterstuetzung des
"San Andres Dialog=
es"

Der "San Andres Dialog", das Dialog fuer einen wuerdigen und
gerechten
Frieden in Chiapas ist gerade in grosser Gefahr. Die
mexikanische
Regierung hat klare Zeichenge geben, den Dialog abzubrechen,
um eine
militarische Intervention gerechtfertigen zu koen nen. Die
mangelden
Vorschlaege und das niedrige Niveau der Regierungsdelegation
in der 2.
Verhandlungsphase (zum Thema "Demokratie und Gerechtigkeit")
der
Friedensgesprechaer; die Gerichtlicheverurteilungen von
Javier Elorriaga
und Sebastian Entzin, angeb liche Zapatisten, unter dem
Vorwurf des
Terrorismus; die unklare Stellungnahme der Exekutive zu
einer moeglichen
Ruecknahme der Verurteilung und die verleumderische
Berichterstattung
ueber den Fall in der mexikanischen Presse, beweisen die
intentionierte
Sabotagehaltung verschiedener Kreise gegen den
Friedensprozess. Die
staendigen und immer aggressiveren militaerischen Eingriffe,
die
Anschaffung neuer kriegerischen Ausruestung und der Schutz
der
paramilitaerische Gruppen der Region, belegen die Absicht
der
mexikanischen Regierung, erneute militaerische Aktionen
rechtfertigen zu
wollen. Waehrend der low-intensity Krieg auf einer hoeheren
Stufe angeland
ist, hat die mexikanische Regierung gleichzeitig das
Ultimatum gestellt,
dass wenn den Vertreter des Za patistischen Heeres sich
nicht zu den
Verhandlungen am 5. Juli einfinden,werden die gerichtlichen
Verfolgung
gegen die Zapatisten weitergehen. Das wuerde die
Wiederaufnahme des
Krieges bedeuten.=20

Angesichts dieser schweren Lage, hat die Zapatisten hat
nachdruecklich
erklaert dass, dass der Dialog nicht fortgesetzt werden
kann, solange wenn
die politischen Bedingungen nicht gegeben sind. Deswegen hat
das Ezln
ge=E4usert dass, wenn die politisch int eressierte
Gesellschaft etwas
unternehmen will, um die militarische Loesung zu verhindern,
muss sie das
jetzt tun, und um die mexikanische Regierung zu dr=E4ngen,
den Dialog Ernst
zu nehmen.=20

In dieser Situation zwischen Krieg und Frieden, rufen die
Berater und
Gaeste des EZLN im "San Andres Dialog" den Teil der
Weltbevoelkerung, ,
der eine friedige, gerechtige und wuerdige Loesung in
Chiapas
befuerwortet, dazu auf, die Internationalen Aktione n in
Unterstuetzung
zum "Dialogo de San Andres" zu organisieren. Diese Aktion
begint am 8.
Juni, mit Demonstrationen vor den mexikanischen Botschaften
und Konsulaten
in aller Welt und gleichzeitig verschiedenen Demostrationen
in Mexiko. Es
ist sehr wichti g, dass ihr Briefaktionen an den Presidenten
Ernesto
Zedillo (fax 271-1764) und des Verteidigungsminister General
Enrique
Cervantes (fax 395-2935)startet. Unsere wichtigsten
Forderungen sind:=20

- Der Rucksueck der Mexikanischen Armee in ihre Kassernen,
gemaess Artikel
129 des mexikanischen Grundgesetzes; schluss mit der
Belaestigung der
Bevoelkerung von Chiapas; die Sendung von Naehrungsmitteln
zur fuer die
Zivilbevoelkerung in der Konfliktzone,
 in der aufgrund der militaerischen Besetzung nicht geset
werden konnte.=20
- Das Zuruecknahme der Gerichtlichenanklage des Terrorismus,
und die
Freilassung Javier Elorreagas und Sebastian Entzins, und
aller anderen 16
angeblichen Zapatististen.=20
- Das Wiederaufnahme der Friedensverhandlungen,
und einer klaren und glauwuerdige Entscheidung der Regierung
die Probleme,
die den Konflikt hevorgerufen haben, zu loesen.=20

Als Symbol der Aktion, schlagen wir vor, kleine Luftballons,
mit der
Aufschrift "Ihr seid nicht allein", fliegenzulassen (im
Gedaechtins an die
Pariser Kommune und deren Aufruf die Hoffnung nicht zu
verlieren)

Wir bedanken uns herztlich fuer eure Teilnahme an dieser
Aktion fuer das
Leben und gegen den kriegerischen Umtriebe der Regierung.=20

Mexiko Stadt, 23. Mai, 1996.

Beraeter und Gaeste der Ejercito Zapatista de Liberaci=F3n
Nacional in dem
"Dialogo de San Andres".=20








.
<hr>32/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-263</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-244</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108151934 text/html 6032
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:18:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5874
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Opening on SAPs?
Date: 07 Jun 1996 07:43:36 -0800 (PST)

Note from D'GAP: While the following story is essentially correct, there are two important points
that require correction: 1) This exercise is not a "study".  It is a participatory process designed to
open the WB's eyes to the valuable contribution to development existing at the grassroots. It is a
sharp conrast to the usual WB approach of having economists "study" peasants.  2) African
NGOs are heavily involved in the process and have been from the very start.

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 03-Jun-96 ***

Title: FINANCE: World Bank Agrees to Review Structural Adjustment

By Rose Umoren

WASHINGTON, Jun 3 (IPS) - The World Bank, bowing to the demands of
some of its strongest critics, has agreed to study the impact of
its structural adjustment programmes (SAPs) on poor countries.

Following a proposal by a group of mostly northern non-
governmental organisations (NGOs), Bank president James Wolfensohn
has given the nod for a joint World Bank-NGO study of SAPs.

''I want to embark on this exploratory process, not to find out
who has been right and who has been wrong on the social record of
adjustment,'' Wolfensohn said in a letter to the Washington-based
Development GAP, which led the NGOs in proposing the study. IPS
obtained a copy of the letter, dated April 9.

Acknowledging that ''adjustment has been a much slower, more
difficult and more painful process than the Bank recognised at the
outset,'' Wolfensohn said he was looking for ''a different way of
doing business in the future.''

Development campaigners and a growing number of mainstream
economists blame SAPs - which promote absolute free market
policies - for intensifying rather than alleviating poverty in
most of Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, and parts of Asia.

The Bank, which has promoted SAPS for 16 years, will part-
finance the study over a one-year period.

The basic framework of the study was ironed out at meetings in
April and May between NGOs and Bank technical staff, including
chief economist Michael Bruno. Broad guidelines and the study's
purpose were agreed in April as indicated in Wolfensohn's letter
which basically adopted the NGOs' proposals.

Wolfensohn says his objective is ''to ensure that economic
reform programmes make maximum contribution to poverty reduction,
that we fully appreciate the impact of reform on disparate
population groups, that we promote measures which narrow income
differentials, and that we encourage governments to consult and
debate with civil society on policy reforms.''

In addition to the social impact of adjustment, the three-tier
study will examine such core adjustment items as privatisation,
trade liberalisation, monetary policy, wage restraint and
deregulation, said the Development GAP's Doug Hellinger.

In the first tier this summer, a group of northern and southern
NGOs will meet with Bank staff to agree on 10 to 12 pilot
countries and the research methodology, Hellinger said.

Wolfensohn said in his letter that he favoured a methodology
''that marries macroeconomic and household surveys with in-country
consultations and observations.''

The second tier will be in-country studies with participation
by the Bank's resident missions, local NGOs, local scholars, and
civil society at large. Hellinger said this phase would begin in
the fall and stretch into Spring.


The third and final tier will be a return to Washington in the
summer of 1997 to synthesise the country studies.

Representing the Bank at the international level will be its
Operations Evaluation department. Its resident missions will cover
the country studies. For the NGOs, Hellinger said a steering
committee of about six northern and southern NGOs would be set up
but could not indicate the geographical spread of such a
committee.

If the committee is drawn from the 31-member grouping which
signed the original proposal to the Bank, there would be no
representation from Africa which is widely regarded as having
posted the worst fallouts from structural adjustment. The
signatories to the proposal came from Asia, Latin America, North
America, and Europe.

Hellinger described the study as evidence that ''there is a
recognition at the highest levels in the Bank of SAP's
inadequacies.''

''I would not go so far as to say that I am convinced that the
Bank is in search of an alternative,'' he added. ''We are hoping
that by the end of the study, the Bank would have changed its
ways.'' (END/IPS/ru/yjc/mk/96)


Origin: Rome/FINANCE/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please
  contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 03-Jun-96 ***
.
<hr>33/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-264</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B026-286</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108152022 text/html 7118
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:19:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6960
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Venezuela Formally Surrenders
Date: 07 Jun 1996 07:43:40 -0800 (PST)


Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
          Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 03-Jun-96 ***
Title: VENEZUELA-ECONOMY: IMF Throws its Weight behind Adjustment Program

By Humberto Marquez

CARACAS, Jun 3 (IPS) - The managing director of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), Michel Camdessus, is being wined and dined in
Venezuela by three long-time opponents of IMF prescriptions: a
socialist, a social democrat and a christian democrat.

Camdessus is on a South American tour - he has already visited
Bolivia, Peru and Argentina - and is in Venezuela to provide IMF
backing for its sweeping economic adjustment program.

The recently reelected director of the IMF is in the region to
review and finalise accords on the restructuring and opening of
national economies, a trend running parallel to the search for
regional integration, on the basis of adjustments that restrict
consumption and pay off foreign debt.

In Venezuela, Camdessus was welcomed by social democratic
Finance Minister Luis Matos, socialist Planning Minister Teodoro
Petkoff, and christian democratic President Rafael Caldera.

In the presence of Caldera and Camdessus, Matos, Petkoff and
the president of the Central Bank, Antonio Casas, signed a
document on Monday committing the Venezuelan government to
neoliberal policies and measures - a kind of ''formal debut'' of
the country's current wave of reforms, known as the ''Venezuela
Agenda''.

Caldera is a long-time critic of the IMF's ''social
insensitivity,'' and had left the COPEI party accusing it of
embracing a neoliberal stance. In June 1995, he told 15,000 of his
followers that ''we will not kneel down before the IMF.''

In the two years since he entered office in February 1994,
Caldera's economic policies were based on controls of prices, the
exchange rate and the banking system, which along with the crisis
that sank 60 percent of the private banking sector in 1994 meant
chaos in the economy.

Matos, who backed Caldera's independent candidacy in 1993 and
was expelled from the Democratic Action (social democratic) party,
was a defender of the gradual implementation of reforms up to late
1995, when the urgent need for an accord with the IMF meant the
adjustments would have to take the form of shock therapy.

Petkoff, a guerrilla fighter in the 1960s and ideologue of the
Movement towards Socialism that he founded 25 years ago, had aimed
particularly harsh criticism at what he called the incoherence of
the Caldera administration's economic policy in its first two
years in office.

But in April he was named Planning Minister, and asked to
explain the need for adjustments to his compatriots.

In exchange for the document signed on Monday, the IMF agrees
to provide some 2.9 billion dollars over the next three years in
credit to shore up Venezuela's finances - 1.4 billion dollars in
the first year - with quarterly supervision by the IMF on the
goals established in the Agenda.

Even more welcome than the credit, and the real reason behind
the enthusiasm of Venezuelan officials, is the effect the IMF
approval will have on the attitude of other multilateral lending
institutions and private investors towards Venezuela.

Venezuela is trying to attract investment in oil and petroleum
derivatives, mining, tourism, telecommunications and construction.
And it is seeking buyers for shares in enterprises to be
privatised, including aluminum, steel, telephones, electricity,
tourism and transport.

The Agenda, whose stringent adjustment of the buying power of
Venezuelans - four out of five of whom are poor - began to go into
effect in April, with the aim of taming inflation and restoring
fiscal balance based mainly on higher revenues.

The government instrumented a sixfold rise in fuel prices - the
oil sector is a State monopoly - and its second 70 percent
devaluation in four months. And it freed up the currency, prices,
rates on public services and interest rates, while parliament was
asked to raise sales taxes from 12.4 to 16.5 percent.

Meanwhile, a partial subsidy for urban transport went into
effect, and the number of social programmes providing food and
health aid to three million poor families was raised from 12 to
14.

The social programmes provide assistance to the families of
children in public schools. But the Gumilla centre for social
studies, run by Jesuit priests, warned that 450,000 extremely poor
families are outside the school system, and hence fall through the
cracks.

The implementation of the Agenda gave a boost to inflation,
which had reached 70 percent in 1994, 57 percent in 1995 and is
expected to reach 95 percent in 1996, according to government
forecasts.

Monthly inflation this year was eight percent before April. It
is expected to reach 12 percent in May and June, and then - says
Petkoff - it will begin a downward trend in July, until reaching
two percent in December.

The soaring inflation, the highest in Latin America, has been
combined with economic recession since 1993 - in spite of  five to
seven percent annual growth in the oil sector - and with a 7.8
percent rise in unemployment in 1993 and 11 percent in 1995 - 20
percent according to the unions.

Half of the labour force works in the informal economy, real
wages have been steadily dropping since 1978, poverty has expanded
and the middle class - nearly a third of the population in the
1970s - has shrunk drastically.

It is estimated that 80 percent of the Venezuelan population
lives below the poverty line, while approximately half of them are
unable to meet their basic dietary needs. But sociologists are now
talking about a new category: ''atrocious poverty'', which affects
hundreds of thousands of families who cannot even cover 40 percent
of their basic nutritional necessities. (end/ips/trd-


Origin: Montevideo/VENEZUELA-ECONOMY/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or
  service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific
  permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution
  via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,
  print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-
  posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For
  information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please
.
<hr>34/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-265</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B027-69</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108152122 text/html 8252
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:20:29 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8094
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Differing Views of Globalizati
Date: 10 Jun 1996 08:10:31 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.           
             Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 05-Jun-96 ***

BIEL, Switzerland, Jun 5 (TWN/IPS) - Globalisation poses challenges and threats for the world. But what are its causes and effects?

On this score, speakers at a one-day seminar here were split along North-South lines. Attended by 200 participants, the seminar on "Expectations from the South", was organised by the Swiss Coalition of Development Organisations, an umbrella body of major Swiss NGO aid agencies, to celebrate their 25th anniversary. 

Globalization has increased the power of the big corporations, but has eroded the authority of political masters, Swiss Finance Minister, Kaspar Villiger said in an opening address. He saw globalisation as posing a threat to Northern countries like Switzerland whilst providing opportunities for poor countries. 

However, these views were challenged by speakers from the
South. They stressed that globalisation and liberalisation were at the  expense of most developing countries unable to compete in the world market.

Villiger told the Seminar that globalisation of the economy was continuing at an ever increasing speed. "The pressure to increase companies' efficiency through growth and corporate mergers is also constantly increasing," he said.

Citing the example of the Swiss chemical industry, Villiger said  25 years ago the two companies Ciba and Geigy in Basel had merged. Recently, Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz joioned to create the new company Novartis.

NGO participants at the seminar understood Villiger's statement to imply that these big corporate mergers had adverse social repercussions because the Ciba-Geigy/Sandoz merger will lead to a shedding of jobs -- between 3,500 estimated by the company and 10,000 in several public estimates.

The merger of the chemical  giants is thus widely used in public discussions in Switzerland as  an example of the adverse effects of corporate mergers and  concentration of capital. 

Villiger said: "There is not only increased competition between companies but also merciless competition triggered off between economic locations. Capital, technological know-how and jobs can be shifted across continents at any time. As has been said, we may have reached the end of geography. This process is placing limits to the power of political authority, as politics loses its influence over economic activities."

Villiger said this process had generated great pressures on the balance and well-being of Switzerland.

"For the rich countries this process is a threat, whereas for poor countries, this is an opportunity. We belong to those countries whose well-being might be threatened in the long run. There is no point in closing our eyes to these developments. 

''Yet there is no reason to panic. We still have good cards to play, such as political stability, low unemployment, social peace, low interest rates and inflation. We have proved many times that we can meet new challenges."

Martin Khor, director of Third World Network, found interesting the Swiss Finance Minister's reference to the growing power of corporations, the reduced authority of governments to control their behaviour and the social  problems caused by globalisation. 
This admission was in contrast to statements of many other political leaders and heads of international agencies who kept claiming that globalisation had only positive results and that there were no losers.

Khor however disagreed that globalisation posed a threat to the North whilst giving opportunities to poor countries to develop. He said it was true that some people in the North may also suffer adverse effects of liberalisation, for instance those who lose their jobs or have social security taken away.

"But this is not because the benefits of globalisation are going  to the South. It is true that a few stronger developing countries  may be able to take advantage of export markets. But a large number of developing countries are still unable to compete and yet have to increasingly open their markets to cheaper foreign goods and to foreign investors that could run local firms and farms out of business."

Gamani Corea, board member of the South Centre and former Secretary-General of UNCTAD, said the North-South dialogue and the drive for international development cooperation was losing momentum.

Outside of the WTO, there are now few world fora focusing on North-South issues. Development problems had been allowed to recede. This was because after the Cold War the North was preoccupied with the transition in Eastern Europe and instability in their own  societies.

In the South, many countries were too dependent on international  financial institutions and donors.

"Their concerns are with internal reforms and domestic policies and participation in multilateral negotiations are a distant concern. The South has lost the leverage it had during the Cold War and also there is increased differentiation among Southern countries, and this has weakened its position in multilateral fora."

Corea said the new concepts of globalisation and liberalisation had been formulated to dispense with the need for development cooperation and for dealing with development problems.

He urged flexibility. Pursing export-led growth did not mean countries had no space for producing for their own markets. They needed foreign direct investment, but that did not mean they should not build up their indigenous capability. ''There is need to modify the policy prescriptions for developing countries," he said.

Former Haitian President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, spoke of the paradox of the widening rich-poor gap despite the expansion of democracy in the South.

"Never has democracy been so much on the agenda for developing countries, yet never before have they faced so many economic problems," said Aristide who left office in Feburary after a term ruptured by a military coup.

Aristide said that even though dictatorships in Latin America were falling one by one, poverty was also on the rise. In 1980, some 120 million Latin Americans lived in poverty, in 1985 this rose to 160-170 million and by the end of the 1980s it had grown to an alarming 240 million.

"In the face of globalisation," Aristide concluded, "our future is at stake. At a time when the key phrases liberalisation, globalisation, sanctity of the market place and free trade have gained prominence, 80 percent of the world population share 15 percent of its riches. In Haiti one percent of the population absorbs close to one half of all income."

Oxfam International representative, Veena Siddharth, said Southern NGOs would like Northern NGOs to bring to the attention of Northern governments and international institutions the need to change the framework of the policies imposed on their countries. (ENDS/IPS-TWN/CR/96)


Origin: Amsterdam/DEVELOPMENT/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or   service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific   permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-   posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please   contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>35/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-266</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B027-107</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108152219 text/html 8739
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:21:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8581
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: Kenya Cooks Books
Date: 10 Jun 1996 08:10:36 -0800 (PST)


       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
           Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 04-Jun-96 ***

Title: KENYA-ECONOMY: Cooking The Books Fails To Address The Problems 
by L. Muthoni Wanyeki

NAIROBI, Jun 4 (IPS) - The more Kenya's economy grows -- as the government boasts it is doing -- the more it stays the same in the eyes of economists and opposition politicians.

According to the recently released 1996 Economic Survey prepared annually by the Central Bureau of Statistics, the country is well on its way to economic recovery with inflation settled at 1.6 percent.

Trade is on the upswing, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has increased by 5.5 percent, investment by 17 percent while 503,000 new jobs were created over the last year, reveals the Survey presented here last week by George Saitoti, vice-president and minister for planning and national development.

The Survey attributes the economy's performance to the abolition of exchange and price controls, the removal of import- licensing and the freeing of the market under ongoing
liberalisation.

However, these apparently laudable findings are dismissed by critics here as self-serving lies -- a case of government patting itself on the back for resolving problems which it itself created. 

''All the jubilation is really just chest-thumping,'' scoffs economist Robert Shaw, a founding member of the opposition party the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy (FORD)-Kenya and now a member of the as yet unregistered opposition Safina party. ''The Survey paints a very glossy picture and gives the impression that we're back on track.''

''I don't really have a problem with the 5.5 percent growth rate figure. But 1990 on were the most appalling years -- we couldn't have suffered more if we'd tried,'' he explains. ''When we've had a situation of negative and then minimal growth, then taking measures will always produce a little growth surge -- it's no big deal.''

In addition, critics claim the statistics in the Survey are highly dubious, given that they are not in line with those cited in the government's Policy Framework Document, released February. 

''The Survey used to be a very credible document, but I'm not sure how credible it is right now,'' says Shaw. ''I've never seen so many people and such a range of people, raise so many questions about the figures in it. They're not just asking whether the methods of collecting data are as sound as they used to be, but also whether or not these figures have been manipulated.'' 

''The overall growth figure isn't actually a surprise,'' says David Ndii, research fellow in economics with the independent Institute for Policy Research and Analysis. ''What I tend to dispute is some of the other figures which appear to be based partially on observance and partially on intuition.''

The most contentious area is job creation. Government admits that of the 503,000 new jobs vaunted in the Survey, only 54,000 were in formal employment -- and most of these, in the private sector. The rest were in the 'jua kali' (hot sun in Swahili) or informal sector.

Critics believe that, apart from formal employment being grossly exaggerated, informal employment is exceedingly difficult to measure accurately and is growing mainly due to the formal sector's failure to absorb job-seekers.

''The government is claiming to have created over half a million jobs, which equals the number of young people entering the job market every year,'' Ndii notes. ''But we know the economy is just not absorbing these people. Statistics can be just a numbers game and we have to ask what kind of employment we're talking about. Is it long-term, are there benefits, that kind of thing.'' 

''Creating a half a million jobs in one year is not just questionable, it's ludicrous,'' states Shaw.

Other inconsistencies in the Survey are shown, economists say, by the fact that revenues from tourism, Kenya's largest income- earner, are down by 24.6 percent without a corresponding drop in income from the service sector. Similarly, while investment has jumped considerably, there is not the anticipated corresponding rise in construction.

A more crucial concern is that the figures in and of themselves, do not really reflect reality on the ground. For example, it does not expose producers problems in getting payments in agriculture, Kenya's second-largest sector, whose earnings are shown to be up.

This beg's the question; who is feeling the impact of economic growth?

''The growth is created by a few people in the private sector and those are the people that feel the positive effects so far,'' says Shaw. ''That's one of the problems.  That's why the real challenge for the government is to get to the 8 percent growth rate, which is where benefits can start percolating through the whole population, with more employment opportunities and so on.'' 

The World Bank has set a target growth rate of 10 percent for Kenya's economy to enable this trickle-down effect.

''If you really want to talk about dichotomies, then yes, the distributional impact of adjustment is negative, is regressive -- the poor aren't benefiting but are bearing the brunt of it,'' says Ndii. ''The corporate sector is benefiting.''

Critics slam government for inadequately addressing this disparity and enabling low-income people to access basic needs. They believe the government's tendency is to revert to command- economy tactics which failed in the past and doomed to failure now due to structural adjustment.

They also note the dearth of ideas on how to make the market- economy work means that liberalisation is still extremely shaky. 

Apart from the need to improve the country's infrastructure, gaining credibility through maintaining a stable environment, curbing corruption and inspiring increased domestic and international investment is the main challenge in the year ahead, analysts say.

''We're running into the elections period where we'll probably see a lot of aberrations -- excessive money supply, budget deficits, inflation and lots more funny projects,'' notes Shaw. ''So we've got to move the privatisation process along, we've got to stop corruption.''

''It just doesn't inspire confidence, domestically or internationally, to learn Kenya is ranked among the top five most corrupt countries in the world,'' he continues in reference to a global survey released recently. ''The government is doing itself out of a job, really.''

But privatisation of Kenya's corruption-ridden parastatals is still a touchy subject.

''The government is still heavily involved in the economy,'' says Shaw. ''There are relatively few individuals in government who are genuinely convinced about liberalisation. And individuals don't make institutions or sound economic policy."

''The government still hasn't entirely seen the need for a radical department from a public to private economy,'' comments Ndii. ''The main constraint it faces is credibility in the eyes of both potential investors and donors.''

''What the government shouldn't do and still does is intervene in the market,'' he adds. ''It simply delays the adjustment process and sends the wrong signals. It's not for want of trying -- the government is simply overwhelmed and is not looking for innovative ways to finance social investment or infrastructural improvement.'' (end/ips/lmw/jm/oa/96)


Origin: Harare/KENYA-ECONOMY/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

  May not be reproduced, reprinted or posted to any system or   service outside  of  the  APC  networks,  without  specific   permission from IPS.  This limitation includes distribution   via  Usenet News,  bulletin board  systems, mailing  lists,   print media  and broadcast.   For information about  cross-   posting, send  a  message  to   ips-info@igc.apc.org .  For   information  about  print or  broadcast reproduction please   contact the IPS coordinator at  ipsrom@gn.apc.org .
.
<hr>36/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-267</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B027-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.11&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108152315 text/html 5785
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:22:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5627
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-sus
From: dgap@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: econ.saps
Subject: IPS: NAFTA= + Unemployment, -Wages
Date: 10 Jun 1996 08:10:40 -0800 (PST)

       Copyright 1996 InterPress Service, all rights reserved.
           Worldwide distribution via the APC networks.

                      *** 05-Jun-96 ***

Title: TRADE-NAFTA: Unemployment Up, Wages Down in Mexico

By Eduardo Molina y Vedia

MEXICO CITY, Jun 4 (IPS) - The increase in trade between Mexico, Canada and the United States since the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has brought little benefit to the average Mexcian worker.  Unemployment is up and the value of wages has dropped dramatically.

Any hopes of better working conditions for the Mexican worker came crashing down along with the peso in December 1994 and a think tank here last week could see no immediate relief coming. 

During the continent-wide seminar on integration held in the Pacific resort town of Culiacan, University of Arizona sociologist Edward Williams pointed out that real wages in Mexcio had plunged 50 percent.  They also had dropped slightly in Canada and the United States since NAFTA went into effect in January 1994. 

NAFTA created a free trade area with 375 million inhabitants and an annual product of seven trillion dollars.

Williams said the deterioration of working conditions other than wages - labour stability and social benefits - that began years ago remained steady over the last 29 months - to which was added a drop in the share of the workforce that is unionised. The phenomenon affected all three members of NAFTA, but was only severe in Mexico, he added.

Another delegate, Douglas Hanson, a U.S. expert in Mexican-U.S. border issues, said the three North American nations have a current turnover of 406 billion dollars in trade.

Hanson cited official figures from 1995 that show an annual trade of some 300 billion dollars between Canada and the United States, and 100 billion between the United States and Mexico. Trade between Canada and Mexico accounts for the remaining six billion dollars, which although considered a low figure is higher than Mexico's trade with the rest of Latin America.

Ruben Rocha, rector of the Autonomous University of Sinaloa in Mexico - which organised the seminar - told IPS that ''the trade figures reveal the radial character of NAFTA, the centre of which is in the United States.''

They also show Mexico's marginalisation in terms of trade with Latin America, which has been stuck at less than four percent of the country's total since NAFTA went into effect, he added. 

According to Rocha, ''inertia and conformism predominate in the economic relations between the United States and Mexico, as well as in terms of Mexico's weak ties with the rest of Latin America.''

Although the rhetoric of the Bolivarian dream of Latin American unity continues to be bandied about, 70 percent of Mexico's trade is with the United States, he stressed.


''There is a pressing need to diversify ties,'' said Rocha, ''not only towards the rest of Latin America, but also with European and Asian countries, in order to reinforce ties, on a more balanced level, with our North American neighbours.'' 

Alfredo Guerra-Borges, at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, said that directly or indirectly, Mexico's integration accords with other Latin American countries extend NAFTA norms towards the south.

Mexico has signed bilateral agreements with Chile, Costa Rica and Bolivia, as well as a trilateral accord with Colombia and Venezuela. And it is negotiating pacts with Ecuador, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

Guerra-Borges said integration ties in Latin America are fragile, and tend towards a focus on larger markets: the United States in the case of NAFTA and the European Union in the case of the MERCOSUR (Southern Common Market - Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay).

''Governments and the business community in the region are chasing illusions by overestimating the potential of the accords, and naively staking their bets on what they see as the automatic character of the benefits of free trade,'' he argued.

With respect to the possibility of alternatives to the neoliberal model predominant in the region, Guerra-Borges maintained that, regardless of the level of economic crisis, there will be no in-depth changes without something new in the field of politics.

He said it would be difficult for Mexico to continue promoting integration with the rest of Latin America over the next few years, not only due to its economic crisis, but also
because it is unclear where its network of accords could spread. 

''The Caribbean option has problems that would not be easy to overcome, and negotiations with the MERCOSUR are not on the books for now,'' Guerra-Borges added.  ''What would be most reasonable for Mexico, which is still bogged down in its own economic crisis, is to take time to allow existing accords to mature, to be able to distinguish'' what will, and will not, work over the next few years.  (END/IPS/trd-so/emv/dg/sw/96)


Origin: Rome/TRADE-NAFTA/
                              ----

       [c] 1996, InterPress Third World News Agency (IPS)
                     All rights reserved

.
<hr>37/3538  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-268</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B027-218</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108152358 text/html 4671
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:23:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4513
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 3583 records<br>

41  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=41"> 163 19960612 Global Day for Freedom from Debt</a>
42  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=42"> 122 19960614 Mexico Recovery When?</a>
43  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=43"> 162 19960618 IPS: LATAM's Invisible Workers</a>
44  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=44"> 96 19960624 IPS: The Three Brazils</a>
45  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=45"> 167 19960624 IPS: Who's Responsible for African</a>
46  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=46"> 122 19960624 IPS:Mexican Privitization Stuck</a>
47  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=47"> 45 19960625 task force on social development/WB</a>
48  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=48"> 143 19960627 IPS:Mexico SAP=Child Abuse</a>
49  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=49"> 131 19960701 IPS:Haitians Warn on IMF</a>
50  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=50"> 156 19960701 IPS:WB Says SAPS Increase Poverty</a>
51  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=51"> 332 19960702 Haiti Info v.4 #17 NEOLIBERALISM RE</a>
52  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=52"> 36 19960706 CHILE:Environment&Indigenous Issues</a>
53  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=53"> 37 19960708 V: Trussardi Parfum</a>
54  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=54"> 36 19960706 CHILE:Environment&Indigenous Issues</a>
55  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=55"> 25 19960708 NEW ADDRESS</a>
56  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=56"> 19 19960705 Embryo Transfer</a>
57  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=57"> 32 19960705 Re: Embryo Transfer</a>
58  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=58"> 23 19960705 Re: Embryo Transfer</a>
59  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=59"> 18 19960705 Thank you</a>
60  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=60"> 14 19960705 New Yellow pages Website for farmers and ranchers</a>
61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=61"> 0 19960705 </a>
62  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=62"> 23 19960705 Re: Organic Farmers Marketing Assn.</a>
63  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=63"> 10 19960706 test message</a>
64  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=64"> 10 19960706 test message</a>
65  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=65"> 25 19960707 Re: Embryo Transfer</a>
66  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=66"> 19 19960705 Re: Fire Escape Garden</a>
67  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=67"> 40 19960705 Study on Rural Internet Use</a>
68  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=68"> 45 19960706 Re: $$ Turn $5 into $10,000 in just 3 beutiful weeks!$$</a>
69  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=69"> 0 19960706 </a>
70  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=70"> 21 19960706 Re: which vegetable oil was cultivated for lamp fuel?</a>
71  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=71"> 8 19960706 test message</a>
72  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=72"> 24 19960706 test message</a>
73  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=73"> 10 19960706 unsub</a>
74  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=74"> 17 19960706 test message</a>
75  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=75"> 10 19960706 Re: which vegetable oil was cultivated for lamp fuel?</a>
76  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=76"> 20 19960706 Re: which vegetable oil was cultivated for lamp fuel?</a>
77  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=77"> 36 19960707 Permaculture Design Course in Spain</a>
78  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=78"> 26 19960707 Re: which vegetable oil was cultivated for lamp fuel?</a>
79  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=79"> 16 19960708 HELP!  Potato Beetles!</a>
80  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.11&q=so&in=80"> 12 19960708 Glue For Yellow Sticky Traps</a>
<hr>41-80/3583    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=3561-3600">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-269</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000255-B027-264</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=3561-3600 194.10.201.200 19970108152448 text/html 3080
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 16:24:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2922
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 3583 records<br>

3561  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3561"> 36 19970101 Re: State Farmer's Markets</a>
3562  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3562"> 0 19970101 </a>
3563  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3563"> 15 19970103 french translation for sustainability</a>
3564  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3564"> 17 19970103 Three sisters</a>
3565  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3565"> 22 19970103 tow-behind combine manufacturer?</a>
3566  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3566"> 59 19970103 make money right now</a>
3567  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3567"> 85 19970104 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3568  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3568"> 85 19970104 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3569  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3569"> 44 19970104 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3570  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3570"> 27 19970104 Re: Demand for organic far ahead of current ability (UK)</a>
3571  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3571"> 78 19970105 Re: State Farmer's Markets</a>
3572  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3572"> 34 19970105 Re: Demand for organic far ahead of current ability (UK)</a>
3573  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3573"> 17 19970104 Re: veg oil for fuel?</a>
3574  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3574"> 19 19970104 Renewable Energy News</a>
3575  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3575"> 19 19970104 who knows CEN-fluid fertilizer?</a>
3576  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3576"> 34 19970104 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3577  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3577"> 42 19970104 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3578  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3578"> 39 19970105 IRS sent me 1/2 million $ to pay FmHA / FSA</a>
3579  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3579"> 69 19970105 Re: The Limits To Growth</a>
3580  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3580"> 133 19970102 Re:  Organic Vegetable Farm</a>
3581  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3581"> 49 19970102 Research group contacts of cattle ranching with native grasses</a>
3582  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3582"> 17 19970102 Address help needed, Please</a>
3583  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=3561-3600&menu=1.11&q=so&in=3583"> 38 19970102 Re: small scale ethanol production</a>
<hr>3561-3583/3583    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&q=so&rg=3521-3560">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.11&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-270</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B032-33</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107161534 text/html 1397
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 17:14:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1241
</DOCHDR>
mideast news
<TITLE> mideast news </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.16>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40 checked> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. A space is OR. 
	If no connectors are used, full matches are marked with '*'
	and displayed first. You can also use AND and NOT to in/exclude 
	words.  Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)
	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftr">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.16>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-271</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA021-000226-B039-295</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107183635 text/html 4639
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 19:35:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4483
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 516 records<br>

1  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=1"> 14 19960705 test....</a>
2  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=2"> 66 19960528 LAWE: Release Dr. Sarraj</a>
3  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=3"> 81 19960529 Update on Bethlehem situation</a>
4  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=4"> 57 19960530 Jahalin Bedouin to be Evicted</a>
5  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=5"> 39 19960530 Jahalin Eviction: Press Conference</a>
6  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=6"> 181 19960530 Israel's Bloody Election-Day Countd</a>
7  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=7"> 121 19960530 ESSAY: Are Israelis undecided?</a>
8  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=8"> 62 19960604 Israel election results 1996/92/88</a>
9  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=9"> 87 19960604 Israeli Bulldozers Destroy Land in</a>
10  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=10"> 28 19960604 Correction: Israeli Bulldozers Bega</a>
11  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=11"> 203 19960603 Jinn Magazine Available Online!</a>
12  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=12"> 48 19960605 Invitation: Bethlehem Land Defense</a>
13  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=13"> 503 19960603 Conference Announcement</a>
14  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=14"> 141 19960607 The Tragic Future of Bethlehem</a>
15  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=15"> 27 19960607 (Fwd) Congratulate Netanyahu?</a>
16  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=16"> 47 19960609 TOUR: The Golan Heights - An Insepa</a>
17  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=17"> 31 19960610 DR. EYAD SARRAJ ARRESTED FOR 3RD TI</a>
18  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=18"> 63 19960610 Bethlehem: Activists Rebuild Land</a>
19  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=19"> 182 19960611 WORKERS WORLD ON ISRAEL ELECTION</a>
20  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=20"> 57 19960612 Dr. Sarraj Update</a>
21  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=21"> 62 19960612 PA Arrests HR Activist - Again</a>
22  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=22"> 113 19960614 BIRZEIT UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES WEBSITE!</a>
23  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=23"> 45 19960613 Dr. Eyad Sarraj: detained for addit</a>
24  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=24"> 87 19960614 Dr Sarraj - Detained for another 15</a>
25  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=25"> 105 19960617 HEBRON: DETAINED PALESTINIAN RELEAS</a>
26  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=26"> 47 19960617 CPT:  Israeli settlers take over Pa</a>
27  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=27"> 173 19960617 CPTers Return to Hebron (fwd)</a>
28  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=28"> 79 19960617 High Court Demands Explanation From</a>
29  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=29"> 192 19960617 Israel: Likud's Iron Heel Still Mad</a>
30  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=30"> 15 19960619 Re: Do U Want To Receive MID-EAST REALI</a>
31  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=31"> 113 19960619 Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanya</a>
32  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=32"> 113 19960619 Re: Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanya</a>
33  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=33"> 24 19960623 Who are MER?</a>
34  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=34"> 50 19960623 New Book to Be Published in August</a>
35  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=35"> 32 19960624 Re: Who are MER?</a>
36  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=36"> 42 19960626 (Fwd) PALESTINE: Dr. Sarraj is rele</a>
37  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=37"> 40 19960626 FW: Dr. Sarraj--RELEASED</a>
38  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=38"> 50 19960627 Dr. Sarraj Released</a>
39  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=39"> 69 19960627 Due Process in Palestine</a>
40  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=40"> 111 19960627 FYI: Israel and Jordan partners</a>
<hr>1-40/516    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=481-520">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-272</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B024-261</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108134406 text/html 670
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:43:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 513
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: kurd-l@burn.ucsd.edu
Newsgroups: mideast.kurds
Subject: test....
Date: 05 Jul 1996 05:01:13

From: Arm The Spirit  ats@locust.cic.net 

testing kurd-l.....

(please ignore this test! - ATS)


.
<hr>1/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=48&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-273</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-25</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108134454 text/html 3392
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:44:08 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3234
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: LAWE: Release Dr. Sarraj
Date: 28 May 1996 03:40:00 (LOCAL)

22 May 1996

NOTED HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST STILL IMPRISONED AND 
UNDER INTERROGATION BY THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 812364/824559
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il

Dr. Eyad Sarraj, Commissioner General of the Palestinian 
Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights (PICCR), appeared 
before a military judge of the State Security Court on 21 May, and 
his arrest was extended for an additional 15 days.  The official 
explanation for extending his arrest was to prolong his 
interrogation.  Until this time, he has not been formally charged, nor 
has he been interrogated concerning the charges leveled against 
him by General Prosecutor Khaled al Qidra of slander and libel.

Dr. Sarraj is a noted human rights activist in Gaza.  In addition to 
his duties as Commissioner General of PICCR, he is also the 
director of the Gaza Community Mental Health Program.  He was 
arrested on 18 May 1996, presumably after publication of an 
interview he gave to the New York Times on 6 May which was 
critical of the Palestinian Authority. The Criminal Investigation 
Bureau of the Palestinian Authority arrested Dr. Sarraj, denied him 
the right to see a lawyer during the first 48 hours of his detention, 
and neither he nor his family were notified as to the reasons for his 
arrest. 

This is not the first time that those critical of the Authority have 
been arrested without charge by the Palestinian Authority.  Dr. 
Sarraj was first detained on 7 December 1995, also without 
charge.  Al Quds editor Maher Alami was detained in December 
1995, and human rights activist Bassam Eid was arrested and 
detained in January 1996.  LAWE views this pattern of arrests as 
establishing a precedent of the most dangerous kind, and as 
indicative of an Authority with little concept of basic freedoms, 
democratic action, or its responsibilities in upholding fundamental 
human rights.  

Land and Water Establishment condemns the arrest of Dr. Sarraj 
in the strongest possible terms. We call for his immediate release,  
and for the Palestinian Authority to desist in the practice of 
arbitrary detention and in arresting those who speak in dissent.

To register your protest to Dr. Sarraj's arrest, please fax:
President Arafat: (972) (7) 822 366
Minister of Justice Freih abu Medein: (972) (7) 822236
General Prosecutor Khaled al Qidra: (972) (7) 824502/3
____________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a Palestinian non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to defending human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based 
International Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>172/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=217&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-274</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-62</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108134543 text/html 4097
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:45:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3939
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Update on Bethlehem situation
Date: 29 May 1996 06:24:45 (LOCAL)

Following is the full text of a statement released this morning by
the Committee for the Defense of Bethlehem:

28 May 1996

LAND CONFISCATION IN BETHLEHEM

On May 15, 1996, the Israeli Supreme Court held a session to
review the appeal against land confiscation in Bethlehem for constructing
a road connecting the planned Har Homa settlement on Abu Ghneim mountain
with the settlement of Gilo, and against new constructions at Rachel's
Tomb site in Bethlehem on the road to Jerusalem.

The court session was postponed until June 15 to allow
representatives from the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli government
to seek some agreement on the two cases.  The injunction holding up
construction was extended ten days.

Three meetings between representatives of both authorities were
held at the Israeli Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv.  No result was achieved,
and a fourth meeting to include Major General Ozi Dian (Israeli central
area military commander) was scheduled on May 27.

On May 26, a huge D9 Israeli bulldozer accompanied by
approximately 30 soldiers started working on the site planned for road
construction.  The bulldozer penetrated about 400 meters of land before it
was halted by several hundred Bethlehem landowners, whose property was
affected.More Israeli troops were brought to the location, land owners
protested in front of the bulldozer to prevent it from moving, and all day
negotiations took place between the landowners and the commander of the
military unit.  The commander in charge consulted with headquarters and by
3:00 p.m. the Israelis agreed to stop construction and remove the
bulldozer from the site until the meeting of May 27.

The meeting was held on May 27, but no agreement was achieved.
The Israeli representatives confirmed the determination of the Israeli
government to construct the road and the expansions of the Rachel's Tomb
site, but agreed to hold up the road construction until a fifth meeting is
held on this issue after the Israeli elections.  No date has been
scheduled for this meeting.

However the Israeli representatives refused to delay the current
constructions at the Rachel's Tomb site.

May 28, 1996

+++

Advisory:

The road described is the so called military road that will in
effect extend the borders of Jerusalem to include Rachel's Tomb.  The area
confiscated will become known as Bethlehem, Israel, and would be the site
for major construction of Israeli tourist infrastructure.  The people of
Bethlehem are disturbed because the land to be confiscated currently
belongs to 2000 families and in some cases is their sole support for
livlihood.  Furthermore it would remove the only area in which Bethlehem
could grow.

Rachel's Tomb is a place holy to Muslims and Christians as well as
Jews, but the Israeli military has limited its use to Jews.  It is
surrounded on three sides by a Muslim cemetery which may be desecrated in
order for Israel to build a new synagogue there.  Construction has already
begun on a wall down the center of=FAthe main thoroghfare connecting
Jerusalem with Bethlehem.  Additional work appears to be in relation to
the synagogue.  An advertisement in a local newspaper seeks support for a
new Yeshiva (school) to be built on the site.

The Palestinian Authority and Bethlehem residents have said that
the confiscation of this land and the building of a new settlement is a
provocation that could endanger the peace process.



.
<hr>173/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-275</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108134629 text/html 3529
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:45:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3371
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Jahalin Bedouin to be Evicted
Date: 30 May 1996 04:14:58 (LOCAL)

28 May 1996

ISRAELI HIGH COURT APPROVES EVICTION OF JAHALIN 
JEWISH SETTLERS TO TAKE OVER THE LAND

(Jerusalem)  This morning, the Israeli High Court of Justice approved the 
eviction of the 3000 member Jahalin Bedouin tribe, in order to clear the area 
for Jewish settlers.  Leading the decision, the President of the High Court 
Aaron Barak, ruled that the Jahalin must leave within three months with a 
choice of relocating to a site near the Jerusalem garbage dump, or 
compensation (the amount not being specified).  In the decision, the court 
completely ignored the destruction of crucial evidence in the case by the 
government. 

The decision canceled the temporary injunction prohibiting expansion of the 
Maale Adumim settlement near the Jahalin tents.  It is more than likely that 
tomorrow the settlement will begin its construction activity around the Jahalin 
tents in order to complete new apartments and villas for incoming settlers. 
Without any ban on construction near the tents, the heavy building activity 
effectively will evict the Jahalin even before the three month period expires.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Dorner held that the eviction order must be 
canceled. In criticizing the majority decision Dorner stated:

"An administrative authority that acts with fairness and reasonableness may 
not evict human beings who reside for years on land, without offering them an 
alternative fair site and even compensation.  We are not talking about an act 
of mercy to be done outside of the law, but rather a legal obligation which 
provides an enforceable legal right.  ...The authorities of this government are 
obligated  to exercise their jurisdiction according to the basic acceptable 
principles in Israel, and at all times they are obligated to guarantee the 
reasonable well-being of the population in the occupied territories."

The Jahalin Bedouin have been residing in an area now surrounded by the 
expanding Jewish settlement of Maale Adumim for over 40 years.  In May 
1995, the Jahalin petitioned the High Court to cancel the eviction order 
against them, issued by the Israeli Civil Administration.  The Jahalin obtained 
a temporary order barring their eviction until a final decision in the case.  In 
August 1995,  while the temporary order was still in effect and the petition 
outstanding, the Ministry of  Housing sold the land on which the Jahalin were 
residing to several private building contractors who subsequently sold the 
rights to the property to Jewish settlers.  In December 1995, the Jahalin 
obtained another temporary order barring the building and expansion of the 
settlement within 100 meter radius of the Jahalin tents, because the 
construction was endangering the Jahalin.   

The Jahalin were represented by attorneys Lynda Brayer and Allegra 
Pacheco for the Society of St. Yves.


.
<hr>174/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-276</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-131</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108134713 text/html 1531
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:46:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1373
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Jahalin Eviction: Press Conference
Date: 30 May 1996 06:54:03 (LOCAL)

INVITATION

PRESS CONFERENCE 
PROTEST THE EVICTION OF THE JAHALIN BEDOUIN TRIBE

Called for by the: ACTION COMMITTEE FOR THE JAHALIN 
TRIBE

Friday, 31 May at 10:30 a.m.

Meet past the entrance to Ma'aleh Adumim, on the right side of 
the main road where the first Jahalin tents are located.

Transportation will be provided from the Notre Dame Center.  
Please arrive by 9:45 a.m.

On May 28, the Israeli High Court approved the eviction of the 
Jahalin Bedouin, to clear the land for the new Jewish settlers of 
Ma'aleh Adumim.  This decision will displace 3000 Jahalin 
Bedouin.

Speakers:
Council Member Hanan Ashrawi
Minister Faisal Husseini
Representatives of the Jahalin
Attorneys for the Jahalin from the Society of St. Yves.

For more information, please call The Society of St. Yves: 
286729, or Land and Water Establishment: 812364/824559.



.
<hr>175/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-277</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-170</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108134802 text/html 9376
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:47:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 9218
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: nyt@blythe.org
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Israel's Bloody Election-Day Countd
Date: 30 May 1996 08:06:30

From: NY Transfer News Collective  nyt@blythe.org 
Subject: Israel's Bloody Election-Day Countdown/GreenLeft Weekly


Via NY Transfer News Collective * All the News that Doesn't Fit

from Green Left Weekly #233 5/29/96


Via NY Transfer News Collective * All the News that Doesn't Fit

from Green Left Weekly #233 5/29/96


Israel's bloody election countdown
By Jennifer Thompson

The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin in November started the race toward
Israel's May 29 elections in earnest. As the elections drew closer, the
lines between Labour - the so-called party of peace, which enjoys strong
backing from the mainstream Israeli peace movement - and the conservative
Likud began to blur. 

After Rabin's assassination by a member of the settler movement, Likud and
its prime ministerial candidate, Benyamin Netanyahu, suffered a popular
backlash because of their association with the extreme right. 

But while Likud has strengthened its association with some of the
right-wing parties by forming an election bloc, it has softened its public
rhetoric by talking about ``peace''. Netanyahu has said he will not
reverse the Oslo accords and will continue negotiations with the
Palestinian Liberation Organisation if elected. 

Labour, led by Shimon Peres, has sought to convince voters that he will be
tough with the Palestinians. Israel's General Security Service (Shin Bet)
assassinated Hamas bomb-maker Yahiya Ayyash in January during an informal
Hamas cease-fire. The provocation backfired on Labour. Hamas ended its
cease-fire with the suicide bombings that sent Israeli public opinion,
with Labour policy in tow, swinging toward the right. 

Closure

The worst of the Israeli measures following the bombings was an 11-day
``internal closure'' of the West Bank and Gaza, which didn't allow the 2.3
million Palestinians to leave their village or town. This was converted to
a ``normal'' closure on March 15; flour was allowed into Gaza to avert
starvation; on March 25, 2000 Gaza workers were allowed back to new
industrial zones bordering Israel, set up to exploit cheap Palestinian
labour; and West Bank Palestinians returned to jobs in Israeli
settlements. 

The closure of Israel to Palestinians will probably not be lifted before
May 29, keeping Palestinian unemployment at around 65%. 

According to an April 6 report by the Ramallah-based Democracy and
Workers' Rights Centre, the closure has cost Palestinians more than
US$16.8 million in fines and more than 224,000 days in prison for entering
Israel illegally to work. Israeli employers, particularly construction
subcontractors, exploited the closure by defaulting on wages owing. 

The effects on Palestinian industries have also been dramatic. The sea
blockade imposed on Gaza stopped around 4000 fishermen from working, and
halted the fishing industry which supplies around 16% of Palestine's
entire annual income and one-third of its total protein intake. 

There have been repeated cases of Palestinians giving birth or dying at
checkpoints after being denied entry to go to hospitals, particularly in
Jerusalem. 

A UN package of $100 million to provide temporary jobs for the 60,000
workers deprived of their livelihoods has only cushioned the effects of
the Israeli policy. ``Unless the closure is lifted and Israel allows in
the basic goods required by our economy, the UN package won't help'', said
PNA finance minister Zuhdi Nashashibi. 

Hundreds of Palestinians suspected of links to Hamas and Islamic Jihad
have been arrested and continue to languish in Israeli prisons. Israel
also demolished two camps and the houses of the families of suicide
bombers from Fawwar refugee camp. The IDF raided three villages around
Birzeit University before dawn on March 28, arresting 370 residents,
including 280 students. 

Up to 12,000 people suspected of association with Hamas and Islamic Jihad
were also detained by the Palestinian National Authority, already under
Palestinian pressure for its seeming surrender to Israeli ``security''
demands. 

Palestinian anger toward the PNA deepened with a police raid on a Nablus
university protest rally and other security agency actions. Independent
Palestinian legislative councillor Hanan Ashrawi noted, ``Palestinian
nationalism consists not just of the symbols of a flag, a police force and
a president but, essentially, in rights''. Most of those arrested were
released by April 26. 

According to Middle East International's Graham Usher (March 29), ``in the
post-Oslo era of Israel-PNA security coordination, Israel reoccupied the
West Bank's 465 Palestinian villages and refugee camps - and repositioned
its troops at `strategic junctions' in Gaza - in a matter of hours and
without a shot being fired, a settler being attacked or a patrol being
ambushed''. 

Segregation

The internal closure policy may be Peres' permanent strategy. On the night
of the second suicide bombing in March, Peres announced the construction
of a 2 km wide and 350 km long ``security seam'' to run between the West
Bank and Israel, broken only by 18 Israeli-controlled crossing points. The
implication, in violation of Palestinian-Israeli economic protocols, is an
Israeli veto on movement of Palestinian goods, capital and labour. 

Israeli military orders to confiscate Palestinian land for the
construction of 26 ``bypass roads'' in the West Bank and Gaza were
approved. The roads have already taken 21 square kilometres and are nearly
220 km long. Their main purpose, according to Palestinian geographer
Khalil Tafakji, is to ``surround and control the main towns, so they can
be militarily divided''. The costs of both projects - US$80 million and
US$350 million respectively - suggest they are not for temporary use. 

Land grabbing by settlers has also continued unabated, and IDF demolitions
of homes near Kiryat Arba settlement in Hebron began but were halted after
massive protests. 

The PLO-oriented daily newspaper al-Hayat al-Jadid editorialised on April
15: ``Peres perpetuates the slaughter business in Lebanon, as well as
starving Palestinians to death and destroying their homes, amidst official
Arab silence bordering on acquiescence, and flagrant US collaboration, all
this for the sole purpose of enabling him to win the elections''. It
concluded that Labour was no better than Likud. 

This feeling has been reflected amongst Palestinians living inside Israel
- 19% of the voting population. Between March 4 and April 22, Peres'
support amongst Israeli Arabs fell from 92% to 46%, with the remainder
planning to abstain. 

Clinton's backing

The US sought to salvage Peres' prospects by staging on March 13 the Sharm
el-Sheikh ``conference of peacemakers'' - widely dubbed the
``anti-terrorism summit''. In attendance were 29 delegations from the
region, the US and Europe, including a number known to practise their own
state terrorism against internal and external opponents. 

Clinton then sped off to Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, where he attended an
Israeli cabinet meeting. The US pledge to protect Israeli security
included an extra $100 million in aid to ``fight terrorism'', adding to
the $22 million in anti-bomb technology sent to Israel earlier in the
month and the annual $6 billion in aid and loan guarantees. 

The Palestinian Council, meeting on April 22, voted 504 to 54, with 14
abstentions, to remove from the Palestinian Charter clauses calling for
the establishment of a single democratic state in the whole of the former
Palestine. The amendments were part of the undertakings included in the
September 1993 Declaration of Principles (the Oslo accord) and again in
the interim agreement signed last September. 

The Israeli Labour Party voted on April 25 to annul the clause in its
constitution that opposes the establishment of a Palestinian state. 

Amendment of the Palestinian Charter has provoked a huge debate amongst
Palestinians inside and outside the occupied and autonomous territories. 

                             -30-

Six-month airmail subscriptions (22 issues) to Green Left Weekly
are available for A$80 (North America) and A$90 (South America,
Europe & Africa) from PO Box 394, Broadway NSW 2007, Australia
<a href=http://www.peg.apc.org/~greenleft/>http://www.peg.apc.org/~greenleft/</a>  e-mail: greenleft@peg.apc.org   

=================================================================
  NY Transfer News Collective   *   A Service of Blythe Systems  
           Since 1985 - Information for the Rest of Us           
              339 Lafayette St., New York, NY 10012              
  <a href=http://www.blythe.org>http://www.blythe.org</a>                  e-mail: nyt@blythe.org
=================================================================
.
<hr>176/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-278</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-210</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108134844 text/html 6232
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:48:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6074
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: odin@magg.net
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: ESSAY: Are Israelis undecided?
Date: 30 May 1996 13:07:33

From: PNEWS  odin@magg.net 

 
######          #     #         #######         #     #          #####
#     #         ##    #         #               #  #  #         #     #
#     #         # #   #         #               #  #  #         #
######   #####  #  #  #         #####           #  #  #          #####
#               #   # #         #               #  #  #               #
#               #    ##         #               #  #  #         #     #
#               #     #         #######          ## ##           #####
 
[*********PNEWS CONFERENCES************]
From: Ilana Tal  ilatal@ort.org.il 
            
      ARE ISRAELIS UNDECIDED?

As a sabre Jewish and Palestinian  ;-)

        [ Yupp - Palestinian, as I was born in 1947 (Jeruslaem) under the
          British Mandate, then Palestine, whether I like it or not ]

                              I would not say Israelis are undecided.

Apparently, the 1992 elections yielded an understanding with our close
neighbors, the Arab Palestinians.  Until then it was unlawful under the
Israeli Law for an Israeli citizen to negotiate with any Arabic entity,
who defined itself "Palestinian."  I had felt very uncomfort about this.
My wife and I rememebr our 1992 trip to vote then.  We went from
Princeton, NJ, to the Israeli Consulate in NY, NY.

In 1992 we voted as the majority of Israeli citizens.  We did so because
we believed that talks should have been innitiated with anyone who would
agree to talk with Israel.  The "Ma`arach" was elected then as the leading
party with its traditional satalite parties, and the _inevitable_
"Oslo Agreements" are signed.

Whether anyone claims "Oslo Agreements" are good or bad, we couldn't
care less.  How can an initial agreement for an understanding be bad,
if the alternative would be no agreement at all?

Conclusively, the results of the 1992 elections were fine.  It yielded
not only the peace process, but also the legislation of basic laws,
establishing individual's dignity, which apperently had been either
denied or at least *wrongly* interpreted  _under_the_color_  of the
Israeli law.  The achievments of the Israeli government since 1992
should not be diminished, yet half of the people simply do not think so.

Lastly, we have reached the elections of 1996, in which Peres v. Netanyahu
are quite even.  This would show that the Israelis, who would seek real
and _tangible_ peace would not buy a "piece of peace" at *any* price.
No matter who will be the next Prime Minister, he should not neglect the
fact that half of the people agree with the current peace process "as is"
and half of the people apparently protest against it.

As far as I am familiar with "Oslo agreements" they are fair if not good.
Yet, Arafat has failed to accomplish his part, notwithstanding he has had
his own obstacles.  However, what about the crisis Israelis have faced
during the last year?

_Tangible_peace_ would be accomplished only with strong Israel, because
only those who are strong may *maintain* real peace.


        Shalom!

                  - Doron

  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
      Doron A. Tal
      69a Ramim St.
      Karmiel, 21862     e-mail:  ilatal@ort.org.il 
      Israel             +972 4 998-0274
  =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

  _I_                                                       _I_
 (_@_)-----------------------------------------------------(_@_)
 |   | "Woe is me, that I sojourn in Meshech, that I dwell |   |
 |   | among the tents of Kedar!  Too long have I had my   |   |
 |   | dwelling among those who hate peace. I am for peace;|   |
 |___| but when I speak, they are for war!"                |___|
 (_@_)-----------------------------------------------------(_@_)
   I                                                         I

                                      Psalms 120:5-7  [Version: RSV]
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------


@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
              ***** PEOPLE BEFORE PROFITS ******
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
PNEWS CONFERENCES  provide "radical" alternative views with an 
  emphasis on justice, humanitarian positions and TRUTH.
   To subscribe to PNEWS-L [1400 subscribers], send request
to:  listserv@sjuvm.stjohns.edu  "SUBSCRIBE PNEWS-L  Your full name " 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
To subscribe to PAIN-L, all aspects of chronic pain; physical & political,
HEALTH & health-politics, [650 subscribers] send: "SUBSCRIBE
PAIN-L  Your full name " to:  listserv@sjuvm.stjohns.edu . 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
Nominations are now being accepted for FLAMING ASSHOLISM'S HALL-OF-SHAME:
[Vote or nominate an ASSHOLE]    <a href=http://www.applicom.com/pnews/>http://www.applicom.com/pnews/</a>
**************************************************************************
"Of course fascists should have free speech. But first cut out their
tongues."             [Harvey "Joe six-pack" Rossetti]
**************************************************************************
Books that challenge prevailing views. Includes Noam CHOMSKY,
Michael PARENTI, Edward SAID, PIVEN, SKLAR, Charles BUKOWSKI,
Marshall MCLUHAN, [ET AL] and also TAPES & CDS. [including 1996
releases] These lists are available upon request from: odin@magg.net.
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
odin@magg.net



.
<hr>177/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-279</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B025-265</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108134953 text/html 2480
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:48:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2322
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: Bill Hayton  billhayton@gn.apc.org 
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Israel election results 1996/92/88
Date: Tue, 04 Jun 1996 10:51:04 +0100 (BST)

Israeli election results
****************************

Prime Minister 
------------------- 
Benjamin Netanyahu, Likud 1,501,023   50.4% 
Shimon Peres, Labour      1,471,566   49.5% 
difference                   29,457    0.9%


Knesset 
---------- 
The left               1996   1992   1988 
Labour                   34     44     39 
Meretz                    9     12     10
Hadash & al-Tajamoa       5      3      4 
United Arab List          4      2      1 
Progressive List Peace    0      0      1    
totals                   52     61     54

The right
Likud-Tsomet             32     40     42
National Religious Pty    9      6      5
Moledet                   2      3      2
Tehiya                    0      0      3
totals                   43     49     49

Ultra-orthodox
Shas                     10      6      5
United Torah Judaism      4      4      8
totals                   14     10     13

Others
The third way             4      0      0
Yisrael Ba-aliya          7      0      0

Total                   120    120    120



Notes ----- 
** Meretz is a coalition of Mapam, Ratz & Shinui who stood as
separate parties in 1988 receiving 3,5 & 2 seats respectively 
** The Hadash/al-Tajamoa list is a coalition of the Democratic Front for 
Peace & Equality led by the Communist Party and the Palestinian nationalist
al-Tajamoa - a new party. 
** The United Arab List is a coalition of the Arab Democratic Party and 
the Islamic list 
** Tsomet stood independently in 1992 and 1988 winning 8 seats and 2 
seats respectively. 
** Tehiya disappeared after 1992, most of its votes went to other 
far-right parties.
** United Torah Judaism is a coalition of Degel Hatorah &Agudat Israel who
stood as separate parties in 1988 receiving 2 & 6 seats respectively

.
<hr>178/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-280</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B026-42</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108135119 text/html 4760
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:50:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4602
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Israeli Bulldozers Destroy Land in
Date: 04 Jun 1996 11:08:28 (LOCAL)

Subject: Israeli Bulldozers Destroy Land in Bethlehem

3 May 1996

ISRAELI ARMY BULLDOZERS BEGIN CONSTRUCTING 
PATROL ROAD IN BETHLEHEM
EXTENSIVE DAMAGE TO ANCIENT OLIVE GROVES

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 824559/812364
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il

At 2:30 in the morning of 2 May, Israeli army bulldozers, border 
police and soldiers arrived in Bet Sahour near Bethlehem to begin 
construction on a so-called "patrol road", which will cut through 
Bethlehem and destroy fertile agricultural land.  The bulldozer this 
morning destroyed approximately 45 ancient olive trees and a wall. 
 The work continued until approximately 7:30 in the morning, when 
technical problems and angry residents forced the work to stop. 
The bulldozer was removed, and a Palestinian who had been 
beaten and detained was released.   Foreign and Israeli activists 
arrived on the scene at approximately 8:00, and then proceeded to 
a second site inside Bethlehem where the upper part of the road 
is planned.  At this time it was believed that the work would be 
continued from the Bethlehem side.

Besides the presence of Israeli army and police, no work was 
taking place and most went home around 12:00 p.m.  In a 
cat-and-mouse tactic, the army again brought the bulldozer to the 
Bethlehem site and began work again at approximately 2:30 p.m.  
The bulldozer plowed through approximately a hundred olive trees, 
each over a hundred years old, narrowly avoided two Bedouin 
encampments, and destroyed several walls.  The bulldozer cleared 
a wide path several kilometers long through the olive groves to 
connect with the already destroyed area below in Bet Sahour.  
Palestinian and foreign activists at this  time twice sat in front of 
the bulldozer in an attempt to stop the work, and both times they 
were forcibly dragged out of the way by the Israeli army.

This road is planned to connect the settlement of Gilo to the highly 
contested settlement of Har Homa, slated to be built on Abu 
Ghneim mountain on lands owned by residents of Bet Sahour, Um 
Tuba and Bethlehem.  While the Civil Administration claims that 
this road will be used as a patrol road, it runs exactly along and 
thus demarcates the illegally expanded boundaries of "Greater 
Jerusalem".  The struggle against the work on this land last week 
resulted in an agreement with the Civil Administration that no 
additional work would be conducted on this road until a meeting 
between Palestinians and the Israeli Civil Administration could 
take place after the Israeli elections.  This meeting has not yet 
taken place, and therefore the work carried out yesterday is in 
contravention of this agreement and provides yet another example 
of the bad faith with which the Israeli government honors its 
commitments.

The tragedy of the construction of this senseless road goes 
beyond the destruction of ancient olive groves and the theft of 
Palestinian land. The road's construction symbolizes attempts to 
demarcate illegal Jerusalem boundaries, to shrink the limits of 
Bethlehem and turn it into a kind of ghetto, and to facilitate the 
expansion and construction of settlements in the Bethlehem area. 
 This road was planned by the government of former Prime 
Minister Peres, but there is little doubt that the construction will 
continue, in violation of the letter and spirit of the peace 
agreements, under the leadership of Likud.  It remains to be seen 
how aggressively the new Likud government will violate the 
so-called "peace process".  But now, more than ever, attempts to 
confiscate and destroy Palestinian land, to change irrevocably the 
status quo in the West Bank, must warrant a strong response 
from both the international and local communities.
___________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a Palestinian non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based 
International Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>179/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-281</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B026-110</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108135225 text/html 1199
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:51:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1041
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Correction: Israeli Bulldozers Bega
Date: 04 Jun 1996 11:19:25 (LOCAL)

Subject: Correction: Israeli Bulldozers Began in Bethlehem on 2 June

4 June 1996

Correction of LAWE's Press Release of 3 June:

Israeli Army Bulldozers Begin Constructing  Patrol Road in Bethlehem
Extensive Damage to Ancient Olive Groves

The press release should have been dated 3 June 1996, and the 
bulldozing began in the Bethlehem area on 2 June, contrary to the 
dates stated.

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 812364/824559
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il


.
<hr>180/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-282</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B026-169</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108135317 text/html 10164
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:52:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 10005
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: ggundrey@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Jinn Magazine Available Online!
Date: 03 Jun 1996 11:43:55 -0800 (PST)

From: George Gundrey  ggundrey@igc.apc.org 

The Pacific News Service is proud to announce the most recent edition of
Jinn.  The complete text of all of the below articles can be found at
<a href=http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/>http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/</a>

For information about reprint rights to these articles, contact Kris
Schell at 415-243-4364 or at  pacificnews@pacificnews.org . 

                                  JINN MAGAZINE
                        THE CHICKEN'S EYE VIEW OF THE WORLD 

JINN is Pacific News Service's biweekly online magazine, written by the
most eccentric network of writers, scholars, reporters and teenagers
contributing to the global media. 

We call our perspective "the chicken's eye view" because we look at the
world from two feet off the ground -- through the lens of culture rather
than of politics. For twenty-six years we have been pooling
observations, impressions, anecdotes, and insights about the vast
diversity of experiences energizing private life. Culling voicesthat
reflect these new energies and articulating ideas that point out where
they are moving, how they are transformingthe public realm, are JINN's
primary concerns. 

In our youth coverage in particular, we are developing a literary
journalism through which young people -- the mostexcluded segment in the
Information Era -- write about their intimate lives as they intersect
with public issues andevents. Their stories reveal a microcosm of the
world we are becoming. 

We chose the name JINN for our online magazine because it is the Arabic
word from which the English word geniederives. For us JINN refers to
those human energies moving cultures in new directions, transgressing
borders andcreating the epic dramas that are reshaping our lives. 


                               JINN MAGAZINE
                            PACIFIC NEWS SERVICE
                   --------------------------------------
                               Issue No. 2.11
                            05/19/96 - 06/01/96
                   --------------------------------------
                                  CONTENTS

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] PACIFIC PULSE: The Pacific Century and Its Impact on the Americas

     AK-47 Seizure in S.F. a Wakeup Call on Dangers of Gun Trade
     By Michael T. Klare
     Date: 05-28-96

     With the seizure last week of 2000 AK-47s in San Francisco, its time
     for Americans to wake up and take the lead to reign in the massive
     trade in assault weapons -- licit and illicit -- circulating throughout
     the world. For too long Americans have viewed the illicit gun trade as
     a minor problem when compared to such global dangers as nuclear
     proliferation and drug trafficking. PNS contributor Michael T. Klare,
     professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College,
     co-edited "Lethal Commerce: The Global Trade in Small Arms and Light
     Weapons" (American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1995).

     M.I.A. Diplomacy -- Washington's New Tool for Containing China
     By Thi Lam
     Date: 05-24-96

     Contrary to the conventional wisdom, the U.S. has recently displayed a
     remarkable diplomatic ingenuity in its efforts to improve ties with
     certain communist countries. A lot of that ingenuity involves using MIA
     remains as a diplomatic tool in pursuit of its new policy of containing
     China. PNS commentator Thi Lam, a former general in the South
     Vietnamese armed forces, is an author based in San Jose, Ca.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] VOICES: First-Person Essays Linking the Private to the Public

     Conversation with Luis Palau --
     Argentinean Evangelist Views Latinos as Agents of U.S. Salvation
     By Andres Tapia
     Date: 05-29-96

     For thirty years the Argentinean evangelist Luis Palau -- often touted
     as Billy Graham's successor -- has been preaching the gospel to
     millions in Asia, Europe and Latin America. But with the close this
     week of a two-month crusade in Chicago, he has set his sights on the
     U.S. where he believes Latinos have a special mission to bring about
     the country's spiritual transformation. PNS associate editor Andres
     Tapia is a Chicago-based writer who writes regularly for Christianity
     Today, and author of "Haunted Marriage: Overcoming the Ghosts of Your
     Spouse's Childhood Abuse" (I.V.P., 1995).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] VECTORS: A Regular Column on the Ideas and Directions Behind Today's
     News

     How Global Economy Promotes Child Labor
     By David Bacon
     Date: 05-30-96

     Two organizations, each with diametrically opposed visions of the
     world, share a common fear about the global economy -- the rapid growth
     in the population of child laborers. As the number of working children
     has climbed to over 150 million, international bodies have sought to
     regulate child labor rather than prohibit it. PNS associate editor
     David Bacon writes about immigration and labor.

     Two Africans Play Crucial Roles in Arab-Israeli Reconciliation
     By Franz Schurmann
     Date: 05-20-96

     Two African leaders -- each of towering stature in their respective
     worlds -- are playing crucial roles in bringing about a possible
     reconciliation between Israel and militant Islam. Little noted in the
     American press, their efforts have electrified the global Arab media.
     PNS editor Franz Schurmann, professor emeritus of history and sociology
     at the University of California, Berkeley, is an avid reader of the
     foreign-language press, from Tokyo to Khartoum. His most recent book is
     "American Soul" (Mercury House, 1995).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] HERESIES: Thinking the Unthinkable About the Future

     Scalia Scores Gays for America's Sexual Meltdown
     By Richard Rodriguez
     Date: 05-21-96
     In a venomous opinion this week, Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia
     denounced what he called the "disproportionate political power" of gays
     in this society. His attack highlights the way in which gays are being
     singled out for punishment for what is a far greater change underway,
     an American sexual meltdown. PNS editor Richard Rodriguez, author of
     "Days of Obligation" (Viking-Penguin) and a regular contributor to the
     News Hour with Jim Lehrer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] THE AMERICAS: The Growing Enmeshment of the U.S. and Latin Worlds

     Will Slot Machines Bring Salvation to Mexico's Indians? --
     U.S. Gambling Industry Eyes Mexico
     By Sam Quinones
     Date: 05-22-96

     A two-day seminar in Mexico City to promote gambling in Mexico drew
     over 400 people and a huge media contingent -- despite the fact that
     Mexico has outlawed gambling since the 1930s. That may change as
     Mexico's tourist industry looks for ways to attract tourists and
     American Indian casino operators tout gambling as economic salvation
     for Mexico's 8 million Indians. PNS associate editor Sam Quinones, a
     freelance writer based in Mexico City, reports for Mexican and U.S.
     publications, including Mexico Business.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 [*] YOUTH OUTLOOK: The World Through Young People's Eyes

     From Gangsta to Biker Look --
     Calvin Klein's Latest Fashion Icon on Wheels
     By A. Clay Thompson
     Date: 05-31-96

     Fashion moguls are taking their inspiration these days from the bike
     messenger whose baggy cut-offs, T-shirts and scraggly hair now adorn
     the billboards and kiosks of trendy shopping neighborhoods. Bikers
     themselves aren't too thrilled about having their styles go upscale.
     PNS commentator A. Clay Thompson, a one-time messenger, writes for YO!
     Youth Outlook, a publication by and about young people published by
     Pacific News Service.

     Young San Francisco Hipster Goes to the Country --
     Small Town California's Counterculture is Spelled "Speed"
     By Reaz Sacharoff
     Date: 05-23-96

     For a hip 20-year-old who grew up in San Francisco's counterculture,
     spending a week in nearby rural Mendocino County was a culture shock.
     In the otherwise idyllic rural communities and small towns of this
     northern California coastal region, as in many small towns across
     America, methampetamine ("speed") has become a virtual rite of passage.
     Reaz Sacharoff is on the staff of YO! (Youth Outlook), a newspaper by
     and about Bay Area young people produced by Pacific News Service.

                   --------------------------------------

Pacific News Service, 450 Mission Street, Room 204, San Francisco, CA 94105,
                            tel: (415) 243-4364.
             Jinn Magazine:  <a href=http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/ >http://www.pacificnews.org/jinn/></a>
                    Email:  pacificnews@pacificnews.org 

         Copyright ) 1996 Pacific News Service. All Rights Reserved.
          Please do not reprint our stories without our permission.
 Our articles are available for reprint. For rates and information, contact
     Kris Schell at (415) 243-4364 or at  pacificnews@pacificnews.org 
.
<hr>181/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-283</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B026-215</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108135406 text/html 2169
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:53:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2011
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Invitation: Bethlehem Land Defense
Date: 05 Jun 1996 06:00:35 (LOCAL)

Subject: Invitation: Bethlehem Land Defense Day

OPEN INVITATION TO PARTICIPATE IN


* LAND DEFENSE DAY *

To repair and rebuild the damage done to our lands by Israeli army 
bulldozers.  The bulldozers destroyed ancient olive groves when it 
began construction on the "patrol road" in the north of Bethlehem, 
which will in fact create a physical border between Bethlehem and 
Jerusalem.

Starting point: St. Anthony Society Square, Bethlehem
Date: Saturday 8 June, 1996
Time: 3:00 p.m.
Transportation from Jerusalem: A bus will leave from the parking lot 
of the Bell Park at 2:00 p.m.

Please join us in large numbers, to express your support for the 
people of Bethlehem and your opposition to the confiscation of 
Palestinian land.

For more information, please contact:
Jamal Salman, Secretary of the Bethlehem Municipality: 741377, 
741323, 050374339
Land and Water Establishment: 812364, 824559, 050219747
Alternative Information Center: 241159

Organized by: The Committee for the Defense of Bethlehem 
(formerly the Bethlehem Committee for the Defense of Land)

Directions to St. Anthony Society: Coming from Jerusalem on 
Hebron Road, just after Rachel's Tomb, veer left to Manger Street 
(toward Manger Square and the Nativity Church).  After 
approximately 150 meters, on your left you will see the Paradise 
Hotel.  Take the first left after the Hotel.  St. Anthony Society, an old 
building surrounded by trees, is located just 100-150 meters down 
this road on the right.


.
<hr>182/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-284</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-27</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108135541 text/html 6942
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:54:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6784
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: The Tragic Future of Bethlehem
Date: 07 Jun 1996 05:42:59 (LOCAL)

This fact sheet was compiled by the International Committee for the 
Defense of Bethlehem, in coordination with the local Committee for the 
Defense of Bethlehem.  

Bethlehem Under Assault

This most historic Christian site is under threat by Israeli development 
plans which will aid only the Jewish population and terminate the social 
and economic potential of  life in the Bethlehem area.

The Plan: The patrol road under contention today has meant the 
confiscation of land up to and over the Bethlehem Municipal borders, will 
solidify Israeli claims for the southern illegal border of Jerusalem and  will 
cut off over 2400 families from their land and ancient olive groves.

The Current Situation in the Bethlehem Area   

Since 1967, 61% of all the land of Bethlehem area has been 
confiscated, declared a military area or green area.

Bethlehem is almost completely surrounded by Jewish-only settlements 
and by-pass roads.  The settlements of Gilo, Efrat, and the Gush Etzion 
Block and 43 kilometers of newly built by-pass roads which connect 
these settlements, open the path for further Israeli development.

Jabal Abu Ghneim (Green Mountain), the last green area, home to 
numerous species of wildlife, was confiscated for "public use" from its 
Palestinian landowners in 1991.  The Israeli government plans a 
settlement for these 1850 dunums to be called Har Homa (Mount Wall) 
for over 50,000 Jewish Israelis.  Petitions against this confiscation are 
still pending in the Israeli High Court. This planned settlement will be the 
nucleus of a vast new settlement expansion which will close the northern 
area of Bethlehem, separate it from Jerusalem, and complete a circle 
around Bethlehem of Jewish settlements and by-pass roads.

On June 2, the Israel Army began construction of the 5.27 kilometer  
patrol road on 1500 dunums of confiscated Palestinian land.  The road 
will stretch from Gilo to the Israeli checkpoint in Beit Sahour near Jabal 
Abu Ghneim and will cut Bethlehem off from Jerusalem and make 
thousands of dunums of land inaccessible to its Palestinian owners.  

Israel's Vision - - Bethlehem's Demise

New infrastructure of by-pass roads and the contested patrol road 
ensures expanded Israeli life in the West Bank.

Israel plans for an additional 7000 dunums to be confiscated from 
Bethlehem area near "Har Homa" to build "Bethlehem Israel," more 
Jewish housing and industrial parks.  2400 Bethlehem families will lose 
their land.  

Tourists will be taken to the new "Bethlehem, Israel", where they will 
enjoy hotels, souvenir shops, and restaurants in a vast tourist complex.  
Buses will be moved quickly in and out to visit the holy Church of the 
Nativity in the center of Bethlehem, as close as 1000 meters away. 
The Jewish infrastructure at Rachel's Tomb area will be expanded, 
taking more Palestinian land and strangling the southern route through 
the West Bank.

An Israeli industrial park is planned on the northern edge of the 
Bethlehem municipal boundaries, part of the "Har Homa" settlement 
development plan. 

Impacts of These Israeli Plans on the Palestinian Community

Religious:.  The 6th century Byzantine and Georgian monasteries and 
the Christian site of St. Theodore's well, on Jabal Abu Ghneim (known as 
"the hills of St. Lucas and St. Marinus"),  will be lost in the development.  
Visiting Christians will not meet with the ancient indigenous Christians of 
the land.  The Palestinian Christian community will experience more 
pressure to leave as injustice ruins opportunities.  

Socio-Economic:  Families are losing land on which to build homes or 
businesses. "Bethlehem, Israel" will destroy the tourism industry on 
which much of the economy depends.  Only wage-labor jobs will be 
available from the industrial parks as more agricultural- and tourism- 
dependent jobs are lost.

Environment: The only remaining forest ecosystem in the area will be 
destroyed.  Vast areas of agricultural land and ancient olive groves will 
be ruined.  The desert ecology will be disrupted.  Waste from industrial 
parks may degrade the air, land and water.

Conclusion: Palestinians, Israelis and the international community must 
come together now to stop this plan.  If not, by the time of the 2000th 
anniversary of Christ's birth Bethlehem will no longer be a viable 
economic or religious entity - it will be relegated to a permanent status of 
provincial village, economically dependent upon Israel with no space to 
grow.

OPEN INVITATION TO PARTICIPATE IN


* LAND DEFENSE DAY *

To repair and rebuild the damage done to our lands by Israeli army 
bulldozers.  The bulldozers destroyed ancient olive groves when it began 
construction on the "patrol road" in the north of Bethlehem, which will in 
fact create a physical border between Bethlehem and Jerusalem.

Starting point: St. Anthony Society Square, Bethlehem
Date: Saturday 8 June, 1996
Time: 3:00 p.m.
Transportation from Jerusalem: A bus will leave from the parking lot of 
the Bell Park at 2:00 p.m.

Please join us in large numbers, to express your support for the people 
of Bethlehem and your opposition to the confiscation of Palestinian land.

For more information, please contact:
Jamal Salman, Secretary of the Bethlehem Municipality: 741377, 
741323, 050374339
Land and Water Establishment: 812364, 824559, 050219747
Alternative Information Center: 241159

Organized by: The Committee for the Defense of Bethlehem 
(formerly the Bethlehem Committee for the Defense of Land)

Directions to St. Anthony Society: Coming from Jerusalem on Hebron 
Road, just after Rachel's Tomb, veer left to Manger Street (toward 
Manger Square and the Nativity Church).  After approximately 150 
meters, on your left you will see the Paradise Hotel.  Take the first left 
after the Hotel.  St. Anthony Society, an old building surrounded by 
trees, is located just 100-150 meters down this road on the right.


Contact:  Committee for the Defense of Land,  Jamal Salman, Secretary 
of the Bethlehem Municipality, 741377, 741323, Ghassan Andoni, 
Rapprochement Center: 647-4574, 050538204; Web site for further 
information: <a href=http://www.netgate.net/~aic>http://www.netgate.net/~aic</a> 

** 1 dunum = 1000 meters squared = 1/4 acre.


.
<hr>183/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-285</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-76</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108135631 text/html 1121
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:55:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 964
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: freedom@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: (Fwd) Congratulate Netanyahu?
Date: 07 Jun 1996 06:42:09

From: "Hillel Barak"  freedom@netvision.net.il 



------- Forwarded Message Follows -------

You are able to congratulate Benyamin Natanyahu on
his election victory by email.

His address is likud1@likud.org.il

Don't forget to remind him that:

- the closure on the Palestinian Territories should
be lifted urgently and permanently;

- the expansion of Israeli settlements and
the confiscation of Palestinian land is illegal
under international law.

.
<hr>184/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-286</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-137</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108135720 text/html 1919
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:56:33 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1761
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: aicmail@trendline.co.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: TOUR: The Golan Heights - An Insepa
Date: 09 Jun 1996 07:27:30

From: "The Alternative Information Center"  aicmail@trendline.co.il 
Subject: TOUR: The Golan Heights - An Inseparable Part of Syria


The Golan Heights - An Inseparable Part of Syria
======================================

While the negotiations with Syria continue, and every possible stage
is available for the local Israeli settlers, we seldem hear the voice
of the Syrian residents of the Golan.

Who remembers that in 1982 they initiated the first "Intifada"?

How have they maintained, for 29 years, their Syrian identity?

How do they see their future in Syria?

And what really happened on the eve of the Israeli Occupation?

On Saturday, June 15, 1996, The Alternative Information Center 
is organizing a study tour to the Golan Heights. The tour will 
include a guided visit to the Syrian Golan and meetings with the 
residents of the Syrian villages in the area.

Departure: 
Jerusalem - Beit Agron, 7:15 am
Tel Aviv - Heichal Ha-Tarbut, 8:30 am

Registration: 
The Alternative Information Center
Tel. 02-241159
aicmail@trendline.co.il 
Registration fee: 30 NIS



--------------------------------------------------
The Alternative Information Center
<a href=http://aic.netgate.net>http://aic.netgate.net</a>
aicmail@trendline.co.il
.
<hr>185/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-287</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-187</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108135807 text/html 2126
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:57:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1968
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: PHR@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: DR. EYAD SARRAJ ARRESTED FOR 3RD TI
Date: 10 Jun 1996 03:11:44 (LOCAL)

Subject: DR. EYAD SARRAJ ARRESTED FOR 3RD TIME

***PRESS RELEASE***

PHYSICIANS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS-ISRAEL (PHR) EXPRESSES ITS GRAVE CONCERN OVER THE ARREST OF DR. EYAD SARRAJ BY THE PALESTINIAN POLICE. DR. EYAD SARRAJ, A LEADING PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS, HEAD OF THE GAZA COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMME AND THE COMMISSIONER-GENERAL OF THE PALESTINIAN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION FOR CITIZENS' RIGHTS, WAS ARRESTED YESTERDAY, SUNDAY 9 JUNE AT 24:00. THE ARREST WARRANT WAS SIGNED BY THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL, KHALED EL QIDRAH. THIS IS THE THIRD TIME DR. SARRAJ IS ARRESTED, AND THE SECOND IN LESS THAN A MONTH. THE LAST TIME, ON 18 MAY, 1996, DR. SARRAJ WAS DETAINED FOR 8 DAYS, AND RELEASED ON BAIL. 

PHR-ISRAEL, WHO HAS KNOWN SARRAJ FOR SEVERAL YEARS THROUGH JOINT EFFORTS TO SECURE HUMAN RIGHTS UNDER ISRAELI OCCUPATION, VIEWS HIS ARREST AS A MESSAGE OF WARNING TO ALL PALESTINIAN OPPOSITION LEADERS AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS, AND CALLS FOR HIS IMMEDIATE RELEASE.

LETTERS CALLING FOR DR. SARRAJ'S RELEASE SHOULD BE SENT TO:

MR. YASSER ARAFAT, CHARIMAN OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY, 972-7-822365/6
MR. FREIH ABU MEDIN, MINISTER OF JUSTICE, 972-7-822236
MR. KHALED EL QIDRAH, ATTORNEY-GENERAL, 972-7-822388

WITH COPIES TO PHR
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
Physicians for Human Rights--Israel
P.O. Box 10235, Tel Aviv, 61101
Tel: +972-3-566-4526 Fax: +972-3-566-2527
E-mail:phr@netvision.net.il

Date: 06/10/96
Time: 12:29:55

.
<hr>186/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-288</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-246</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108135854 text/html 3143
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:58:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2985
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Bethlehem: Activists Rebuild Land
Date: 10 Jun 1996 07:42:03 (LOCAL)

8 June 1996

Locals, Israelis, and International Activists 
Rebuild Land in Bethlehem

Landowners Take Action Against New Israeli Military Road

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 812364/824559
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il

At 3:00 p.m., approximately 400 Palestinians, Israelis and 
foreigners gathered in Bethlehem to participate in a peaceful 
reconstruction of land. Organized by the Committee for the 
Defense of Bethlehem, this successful action pulled over 100 
Israelis and foreigners and 300 Palestinians to Bethlehem to 
repair walls and replant trees which had been destroyed by 
bulldozers last week.  Last week, on 2 June, the Israeli army 
arrived at 2:30 in the morning and bulldozed a three kilometer 
path, destroying over 100 ancient olive trees.  

The protesters came together in a statement against the military 
road and in defense of the land in Bethlehem.  The road itself is 
planned to stretch from the settlement of Gilo, west of 
Bethlehem, cut deep into Bethlehem itself, and end at the 
forested mountain of Abu Ghneim.

This road runs along the illegally expanded Jerusalem borders, 
thereby solidifying the  illegal Israeli-defined southern border of 
Jerusalem in advance of the final status negotiations.  It has also 
meant the confiscation of 1500 dunums of land from landowners 
in Bethlehem, Beit Sahour and Beit Jala, and will cut off 2400 
families from Beit Sahour and Bethlehem from their cultivated 
land near Abu Ghneim.

The residents of Bethlehem, Beit Sahour and Beit Jala hope that 
this is the beginning of coordinated activity against the Israeli 
plans for Bethlehem's northern border.  Besides the patrol road, 
which will be the first step towards separation of the West Bank 
from Jerusalem, the Jerusalem municipality has planned a 
massive settlement and industrial/tourist complex on confiscated 
Arab lands to Bethlehem's north.  The highly contested Har 
Homa settlement, to be built on the mountain Abu Ghneim, will be 
only the nucleus of a vast new development, including an 
industrial park and tourist infrastructure stretching from the 
settlements of Gilo to East Talpiot.
________________________________________________
Land and Water is a Palestinian non-governmental organization, 
which seeks to defend human rights through legal advocacy.  
LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based International 
Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>187/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-289</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-306</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108135958 text/html 8379
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 14:59:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8221
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: npcsf@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: WORKERS WORLD ON ISRAEL ELECTION
Date: 11 Jun 1996 09:07:44 -0800 (PST)

------------------------
Via Workers World News Service
Reprinted from the June 13, 1996
issue of Workers World newspaper
-------------------------
 
ISRAELI ELECTION: LIKUD'S IRON HEEL STILL MADE IN USA
 
By Richard Becker
 
Benjamin Netanyahu, leader of the Likud bloc, was elected 
as the new prime minister of Israel May 30, defeating the 
incumbent Shimon Peres by less than 1 percent of the vote.
 
The Likud bloc is an alliance of right and extreme-right 
parties. The most bigoted and fascist elements in Israel, 
particularly the many U.S.-born settlers in the occupied 
West Bank, are emboldened by Netanyahu's victory. More 
settlements and more attacks on Palestinians by settlers in 
the occupied areas can be expected.
 
Among those expected to hold top positions in the new 
cabinet is Gen. Ariel Sharon, a Likud leader. Sharon 
directed the Israeli invasion and mass bombing of Lebanon in 
1982. That left tens of thousands of Lebanese and 
Palestinian civilians dead and hundreds of thousands 
homeless.
 
He collaborated with Lebanese fascists to carry out the 
horrible massacre in the Sabra and Shatila Palestinian 
refugee camps the same year. Sharon is a war criminal of the 
first rank.
 
Netanyahu promised in his first post-victory speech that 
his government would not negotiate with the Palestinians 
over Jerusalem. He also called for greatly increasing the 
Israeli population by bringing in millions more Jewish 
people from around the world. This would require massive new 
settlements on Palestinian land.
 
The Likud program calls for continuing to occupy the Golan 
Heights, taken from Syria in the 1967 war, and keeping 
Israeli troops in the Palestinian city of Hebron, despite 
the peace accord's promise to withdraw them.
 
The underlying reactionary ideology of many Likud leaders 
calls for driving all remaining Palestinians out of what 
they call "Greater Israel." Netanyahu's father was a 
proponent of this wing of Zionism in the 1920s, long before 
the Israeli state existed.
 
Peres was the candidate of the Labor Party, which, despite 
its name, is the capitalist party that has governed Israel 
for most of its 48-year history. Both Likud and Labor are 
pro-U.S. and anti-Arab; both have systematically carried out 
policies of racism and brutal repression against the 
Palestinian people when they have held power.
*
At times, like during the Palestinian uprising known as 
the Intifada, they ruled together in a coalition government 
whose main objective was to crush the Palestinians.
 
While the Clinton administration strongly supported Peres 
and worked for his re-election, there is no doubt that the 
U.S. will continue to send billions of dollars in annual 
military and other aid to the Netanyahu government. 
 
The motivation for this "generosity" is not concern for 
the welfare of the Jewish people--or any other people, for 
that matter. The U.S. ruling class invests billions of 
dollars in Israel every year because Israel stands guard 
over U.S. capitalism's most valuable and profitable assets: 
the vast oil fields of the Middle East. Israel is 
imperialism's forward base in the midst of the oppressed 
Arab world.
 
The Pentagon has provided Israel with immense amounts of 
weaponry--high-tech, low-tech and nuclear, to carry out its 
assigned role in the imperialist system. Washington has also 
supplied the money to build thousands of new settlement 
units in the occupied West Bank and Gaza, and economic aid 
to sustain a European-level living standard in a country 
which has never had the economic base to support it.
 
The enormous assistance it receives makes Israel dependent 
upon Washington. The Israeli leaders and governing parties 
may have their own drives and interests, not always 
coinciding exactly with those of U.S. imperialism. But 
regardless of their ideology or inclination, none can ignore 
the strategic interests and policies of the United States.
 
WHAT WASHINGTON WANTS
 
Washington's support for Peres in this election was based 
upon his government's support for what is called the "peace 
process"--a major U.S. foreign policy initiative under both 
the Bush and Clinton administrations. This plan calls for 
the Palestinians to have limited autonomy within 60 percent 
of Gaza and 34 percent of the West Bank. The Israelis retain 
military, security and border control. 
 
The Palestinian Authority that has been established as the 
governing body is denied the right to engage in foreign 
affairs. There is no provision in the agreement for the 4 
million Palestinians living in forced exile.
 
By all accounts, living conditions for Palestinians in the 
occupied territories have sharply deteriorated since the 
"peace process" began. Raji Sourani, director of the 
Palestine Human Rights Center in Gaza, speaking after the 
election, described conditions "as the worst in the past 30 
years. The mood of the people in Gaza is that peace and the 
image of peace mean nothing."
 
Sourani called the situation "explosive."
 
While Peres and his predecessor, Yitzhak Rabin, supported 
the accord, Likud and the Israeli extreme right have opposed 
making any concessions to the Palestinians. In December 
1995, Rabin was assassinated by an Israeli opponent of the 
accord.
 
The negotiations for this agreement, which is still being 
implemented, began after the Gulf war and the collapse of 
the Soviet Union. U.S. policy makers believed that, weakened 
by these developments, the Palestine Liberation Organization 
led by Yasir Arafat would be forced to accept the terms 
brokered by Washington. 
 
However one views this agreement, the U.S. objective is 
clear: to gain stability in this vital region by liquidating 
the Palestinian Revolution. The Palestinian struggle has 
been central to the Arab liberation movement as a whole for 
half a century.
 
Opposition to the agreement has come from the Marxist 
left--including the Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine and the Democratic Front--and Islamic forces such 
as Hamas and Islamic Jihad. These organizations view the 
accord as falling far short of an independent state and 
compromising the future of the Palestinian people.
 
The PFLP, in a statement on June 1, said: "The election of 
Netanyahu has weakened the Palestinian Authority, which made 
a peace of capitulation with Israel, and strengthened the 
opposition which opposed this kind of peace." The 
organization stated that the election "paves the way for 
increased military operations during the coming period."
 
A Hamas spokesperson stated that if there was no 
withdrawal from Hebron, "the people are going to escalate 
their resistance."
 
The government of Syria responded to the election outcome 
with a statement that "commitment to Likud's election program 
will detonate the region and worsen tension and instability." 
The pro- U.S. regime in Egypt, the largest of the Arab 
countries, also expressed concern after a June 3 meeting in 
Cairo between Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Syrian 
President Hafez Al-Assad.
 
New instability, new tension, new resistance, and above 
all new explosions, are not what the U.S. government wants 
to see in the Middle East. And for Netanyahu and his new 
government, regardless of their campaign promises, what 
Washington wants will be the most important factor. 
 
                         - END -
 
(Copyright Workers World Service: Permission to reprint
granted if source is cited. For more information contact
Workers World, 55 W. 17 St., NY, NY 10011; via e-mail:
ww@wwpublish.com. For subscription info send message to:
ww-info@wwpublish.com. Web: <a href=http://www.workers.org>http://www.workers.org</a>

.
<hr>188/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-290</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B027-351</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108140041 text/html 2786
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2628
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: PHR@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Dr. Sarraj Update
Date: 12 Jun 1996 00:17:05 (LOCAL)

***PRESS RELEASE***

Palestinian Authority (PA) Charges Dr. Eyad Sarraj with Drug Dealing

Khaled El-Qidrah, the Palestinian Attorney-General, stated yesterday that 
Dr. Eyad Sarraj, the High Commisioner of the Palestinian Independent 
Commission on Civil Rights, was arrested for holding "illicit materials." 
El-Qidrah claimed this arrest was unrelated to Dr. Sarraj's public criticism 
of the PA or  his statements criticizing limitations on freedom of 
expression under PA rule. 

Two days ago, the Palestinian Police searched the offices of the Gaza 
Community Mental Health Programme (GCMHP), of which Dr. Sarraj is director. 
During the search, police confiscated documents and computer diskettes. 
Palestinian police sources claimed that a commercial quantity of Marijuana 
was found in the office. Workers at the GCMHP confirmed that policemen were 
observed exiting the office holding a plastic bag with the suspected drug. 

Dr. Sarraj is now being held in solitary confinement at the central prison 
in Gaza.

It is clear that Dr. Sarraj's latest arrest is related to his decision to 
appeal the legality of his previous arrests in the Palestinian High Court. 
It is also widely believed that  police planted the evidence in order to 
frame Dr. Sarraj, after his last arrest was condemned throughout the world, 
embarrasing the PA.

Physicians for Human Rights-Israel has led pevious efforts to secureDr. 
Sarraj's release the previous two arrests, and calls again upon all people 
who support human rights to express their opposition to this inequible 
arrest.

Letters calling for Dr. Sarraj's immediate release from prison, and 
enquiries as to his condition should be sent to:

MR. YASSER ARAFAT, CHAIRMAN OF THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY, fax: 
972-7-822365/6
MR. FREIH ABU MEDIN, MINISTER OF JUSTICE, fax: 972-7-822236
MR. KHALED EL QIDRAH, ATTORNEY-GENERAL, fax: 972-7-822388

With copies to PHR
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
Physicians for Human Rights--Israel
P.O. Box 10235, Tel Aviv, 61101
Tel: +972-3-566-4526 Fax: +972-3-566-2527
E-mail:phr@netvision.net.il

Date: 06/12/96
Time: 08:35:17

.
<hr>189/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-291</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-47</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108140127 text/html 3356
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:00:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3198
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: PA Arrests HR Activist - Again
Date: 12 Jun 1996 06:12:21 (LOCAL)

12 June 1996


DR. EYAD SARRAJ ARRESTED AGAIN

HELD WITHOUT CHARGE, INSIDE REPORTS OF TORTURE

On the morning of June 10 Dr. Eyad Sarraj, well-known human rights 
activist, psychologist, and Commissioner General of the Palestine 
Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights (PICCR) has been 
detained for the second time in one month by the Palestinian Authority.  
He was arrested on one other occasion at the end of 1995.

On this occasion, like in the past, no charges have been presented 
against Dr. Sarraj.  Until now his lawyer and his family have been denied 
permission to see him, and he remains incarcerated in a special, very 
small cell.  Reports from inside the prison reveal that he has possibly 
been tortured and severely beaten, and has requested to see a 
physician.  It is believed that Dr. Sarraj is in very bad condition, and his 
colleagues are frightened for his physical safety.

In the two previous arrests of Dr. Sarraj, his political outspokenness was 
cited as the reason for arrest (although he was never charged), 
provoking a national and international outcry.  Concerning this most 
recent detention, Palestinian Authority Attorney General Khaled al Qidra 
has intimated, in interviews to the press, that Dr. Sarraj has been 
arrested on criminal charges, that his arrest "is not related to his human 
rights activities, the work of his association or his freedom of 
expression."

Land and Water Establishment views this third arrest of Dr. Sarraj with 
the gravest possible concern, particularly as he is being held again 
without charge.  The Palestinian Authority, with Yassir Arafat at its head, 
has become an instrument of repression, little related to the  
"democratic authority" the recent Palestinian elections were meant to 
ensure.  Indeed the concept of human rights has not found a place 
within Mr. Arafat's Authority. 

LAWE demands the immediate release of Dr. Sarraj and an end to the 
practice of arbitrary detention without charge.  LAWE calls on the 
international community to encourage the Palestinian Authority to 
respect basic human rights and to release Dr. Sarraj.

The international community is encouraged to fax its concern and 
opposition to the arrest of Dr. Sarraj to the following:
President Yassir Arafat: (972) (7) 822365/6
Minister of Justice Frieh abu Medein: (972) (7) 822236
Attorney General Khaled al Qidra: (972) (7) 824503
____________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a Palestinian non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the International 
Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>190/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-292</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108140214 text/html 4764
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:01:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4606
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: pr@admin.birzeit.edu
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: BIRZEIT UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES WEBSITE!
Date: 14 Jun 1996 08:27:03

From: "Public Relations Office"  PR@admin.birzeit.edu 
Subject:       BIRZEIT UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES WEBSITE!

      PRESS RELEASE - PLEASE DISTRIBUTE WIDELY
                               13 June 1996


         _________________________________________
  
         BIRZEIT UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES WEBSITE!

                         <a href=http://www.birzeit.edu/>http://www.birzeit.edu/</a>
         _________________________________________

On 6 June 1996,  Birzeit University, located in the Palestinian West
Bank, connected it's webserver to the Internet. Within a few hours,
our first hit was registered from a user at the University of
Missouri.

Despite thousands of new website launches each day, the Birzeit
website is significant for a number of reasons:

(1) There is very limited amount of Internet information coming out
of Palestine from Palestinian organisations, just as there is a
limited amount of Internet information flowing from the South to the
North. The Birzeit Website aims to be one part of the restoration of
this imbalance. 

(2) Birzeit University is a leading Palestinian institution, known
worldwide for its commitment to the principles of academic freedom
and democracy. We intend that our website will reflect this.

(3) As Palestinians here are discovering the power of the Web, some 
interesting projects are certainly going to turn up. Keep checking 
the Palestinian Archive section to see what appears! 
         _________________________________________


The Birzeit University Website is split into 4 sections:

1. Brief information about Birzeit University - Introduction,
Historical Background, International Relations, Courses and
Programmes for Internationals, The Birzeit Campus and its Facilities,
University Research Centres and other Community-related Programmes,
Student Life, University Publications, Academic Requirements, Fees
and Financial Aid, Academic Programme. 

2. Birzeit and the World Wide Web - A brief history of information
technology in Palestine, A brief history of Birzeit's Website
development and where it is going, Software we use to make Birzeit's
Website, Web training at Birzeit, Notes on using the Birzeit Website,
People involved in the construction of Birzeit's Website. 

3. Birzeit University Archives - Birzeit Newsletter Archive, Birzeit
Human Rights Archive, Birzeit Press Release Archive*, Birzeit
Photographic Archive, Birzeit Development Archive*, Friends of Birzeit
University (UK). 
                                                              [*coming soon]

4. The Palestine Archive - Becoming Palestine, Palestinian
Architecture (RIWAQ), Palestinian School Education (EdNet), A
Personal Diary. 
         _________________________________________


Funding is currently being sought for the Palestine Archive project. 
For more details, contact (pr@admin.birzeit.edu).

Volunteers wishing to work on their summer break HTMLing stuff for
Birzeit are welcomed. CVs and any comments on the website to the
Birzeit Webmaster (webmaster@birzeit.edu). 


: > Come and try the surf on-line in the land of Palestine! : >

         _________________________________________
_____________________________________

Public Relations Office
Birzeit University
P.O. Box 14
Birzeit
West Bank via Israel

Tel: +972-2-998-2059
Fax: +972-2-995-7656
E-mail: pr@admin.birzeit.edu

The Public Relations Office is a department of Birzeit 
University, an independent Palestinian institution 26 km
north of Jerusalem in the Israeli-occupied West Bank.

Birzeit is now on the World Wide Web! Check out our 
website on: 
           <a href=http://www.birzeit.edu/>http://www.birzeit.edu/</a>

For information on summer and winter courses in Arabic
and Palestine studies for internationals, e-mail PAS on:
           pas-isp@admin.birzeit.edu

For information about the human rights situation at the
university, contact the Human Rights Action Project at
hrap@admin.birzeit.edu or check out the Human Rights 
Archive:
           <a href=http://www.birzeit.edu/bzuarc/>http://www.birzeit.edu/bzuarc/</a>
________________________________
.
<hr>191/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-293</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-161</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108140254 text/html 3164
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:02:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3006
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: PHR@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Dr. Eyad Sarraj: detained for addit
Date: 13 Jun 1996 09:51:16 (LOCAL)

Subject: Dr. Eyad Sarraj: detained for additional 15 days

**************Dr. Eyad Sarraj:  Urgent Update No. 4************

For Immediate Release
Thursday, June 13, 1996

Contact:	Hadas Ziv, Intervention Coordinator
		Physicians for Human Rights - Israel (PHR)
		Email:	phr@netvision.net.il
		Tel:		972-3-566-4526
		Fax:		972-3-566-2527

Tel Aviv - Physicians for Human Rights (PHR) has learned of the most recent abuse of Dr. Eyad Sarraj by the Palestinian Authority.  Dr. Sarraj, the Commissioner General of the Palestine Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights and the director of the Gaza Community Mental Health Program, was arrested by the Palestinian Police in his home in Gaza on the night of June 9 and was charged with possession of illegal substances. Human rights groups believe that the alleged evidence was planted by Palestinian Authority officials and that Dr. Sarraj was arrested because of critical public statements he has made about the Palestinian Authority in the past. 

In an unannounced move today, the Palestinian Security Court sentenced Dr. Sarraj to15 days arbitrary detention for allegedly striking a Palestinian police officer.  Human rights groups believe this allegation was also fabricated by Palestinian Authority officials.  Dr. Sarraj's attorney, Khader Shkirat, was not allowed to be present during the arraignment, despite successful efforts by Physicians for Human Rights to procure him an entry permit into Gaza.   

Following the Security Court trial, Dr. Sarraj and his attorney met and waited for several hours at the Magistrate's Court to commence a hearing concerning the drug charges from Sunday, June 9. Mr. Shkirat reported that the doctor appeared physically and mentally broken.  The court hastily accepted Dr. Sarraj's parole appeal.  

Despite this recent parole, Dr. Sarraj still faces 15 days in prison for allegedly hitting an officer after a hearing in which he was denied representation.

**PHR appeals to all government, media, and human rights organizations and concerned individuals to continue appealing to PA Authorities demanding Dr. Sarraj's unconditional release.-- Physicians for Human Rights

P.O.B. 10235, Tel-Aviv 61101, Israel --
Tel: 03-566-4526; Fax: 03-566-2527
email: phr@netvision.net.il



*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
Physicians for Human Rights--Israel
P.O. Box 10235, Tel Aviv, 61101
Tel: +972-3-566-4526 Fax: +972-3-566-2527
E-mail:phr@netvision.net.il

Date: 06/13/96
Time: 19:06:28

.
<hr>192/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-294</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-235</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108140340 text/html 4804
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:02:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4646
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Dr Sarraj - Detained for another 15
Date: 14 Jun 1996 05:44:00 (LOCAL)

Subject: Dr Sarraj - Detained for another 15 days

14 June 1996

Dr. Sarraj Detained Another 15 Days
New Charges By Palestinian Authority

Dr. Eyad Sarraj, the Commissioner General of the Palestine 
Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights, was arrested late at 
night of 9 June and held without charge, without legal representation, 
and in violation of Palestinian law of due process until 13 June.  
Palestinian law states that a detainee must be charged and allowed 
legal counsel after 48 hours of detention.

At 3:30 p.m. on 13 June, Dr. Eyad Sarraj was formally charged and 
allowed to see his lawyers, Khader Shkirat  (Land and Water 
Establishment) and Raji Sourani (Palestinian Center for Human Rights) 
for the first time. The lawyers report that Dr. Sarraj is in very poor 
condition, both physically and mentally, and that Dr. Sarraj confirmed 
reports that he had been severely beaten during interrogation.
 
At this time it was revealed that just an hour earlier Dr. Sarraj had been 
brought before the Military Court on a previously unannounced charge 
of striking a police officer.  He was forced to appear in this court 
without legal representation, although his lawyers were waiting for him 
in the magisterial court. Dr. Sarraj told his lawyers that he was accused 
of striking the police officer responsible for his interrogation and who 
had been mainly responsible for beating Dr. Sarraj.  During this 
hearing, the military court summarily decided to detain Dr. Sarraj for an 
additional 15 days.

 Dr. Sarraj's case was then brought before the Palestinian Magisterial 
Court in Gaza for his hearing on drug charges, presented against him 
by the Palestinian Authority.

The lawyers argued that the due process guaranteed to Dr. Sarraj 
under Palestinian law was grossly violated.  In addition, there were no 
criminal laboratories available in which to analyze the material 
supposedly found in Dr. Sarraj's office, and therefore it was impossible 
to prove the drug charge.  

The judge accepted the arguments of the defense, and dismissed the 
charges against Dr. Sarraj.

Dr. Sarraj added that during his interrogation, he was not asked about 
drugs or drug dealing.  His questioning centered primarily around the 
letter he sent to Mr. Arafat after his release from his last arrest on 18 
May.  In this letter he stated that he did not retract the criticisms he 
made of the Authority in the New York Times interview he gave in the 
beginning of May, and he sought a new relationship with the 
Palestinian Authority if they began respecting basic human rights and 
ended their campaign against him.  It is his and his lawyers' belief that 
this letter and continued criticism is the real reason behind his 
continued incarceration.

His lawyers add that if Dr. Sarraj were charged with striking a police 
officer, the appropriate court for the hearing must be the civil court, 
according to Palestinian law article 251 of 1936.  Dr. Sarraj's case 
could by no stretch of the imagination be considered an internal military 
matter and therefore subject to the authority of the military court.

It is also LAWE's belief, and that of numerous other human rights 
organizations, that the accusations leveled against Dr. Sarraj are 
fabricated on the part of the Palestinian Authority.  In fact, the 
Authority has made little effort to make the charges and the legal 
process against Dr. Sarraj appear legitimate.

As concerns for Dr. Sarraj's physical well-being mount, Land and Water 
Establishment urgently calls on the international community to continue 
their appeals to the Palestinian Authority to release Dr. Sarraj.  Send 
faxes to: President Yassir Arafat: (972) (7) 822365/6, Minister of 
Justice Frieh abu Medein: (972) (7) 822236, and Attorney General 
Khaled al Qidra: (972) (7) 824503.
_____________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a Palestinian non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based 
International Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>193/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-295</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-295</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108140424 text/html 4902
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:03:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4744
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: jlynch@servtech.com
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: HEBRON: DETAINED PALESTINIAN RELEAS
Date: 17 Jun 1996 05:00:16

Subject: HEBRON: DETAINED PALESTINIAN RELEASED (fwd)
From: "James R. Lynch"  jlynch@servtech.com 

	DELAYED POSTING

Forwarded message:
> Date: Fri, 24 May 1996 18:32:40 -0500
> From: cpt@igc.apc.org (Christian Peacemaker Teams, Chicago, IL)
> Subject: HEBRON: DETAINED PALESTINIAN RELEASED
> 
> CPTNET May 24, 1996
> HEBRON: DETAINED PALESTINIAN RELEASED
> 
> by Tom Malthaner
> 
> Last Saturday night Bob Naiman and I, as Christian
> Peacemaker Team members stationed in Hebron, went on night
> patrol about 7:30 pm.  We saw a young man about 20 years
> old being detained by the soldiers.  The man had his hands
> up against the wall.  Bob asked the soldiers, "Why is the
> man being detained?" The soldier said he couldn't tell us.
> Then Bob said that it was humiliating to stand like that,
> could he not sit down?  No, said the soldier.
> 
> The soldier approached us and asked for our identification
> papers.  I had mine, however, Bob didn't have his visa with
> him.  It was back at the house.  The soldier told Bob, "You
> must come to the police station."
> 
> We both went with the soldiers. At the police station the
> officer on duty lectured us, telling us not to talk with
> soldiers when they are doing their job or interfere with
> them in any way, nor talk to those detained.
> 
> We had a lively discussion with the officer, explaining
> our concern for human rights for all people and that our
> work requires us to find out what is going on.  There is no
> way to find out why someone is being detained, we told the
> officer, without asking the soldiers.
> 
> The officer didn't like our response nor did we like what
> the military did, but I believe we did end the conversation
> in mutual respect for each other. We left the police
> station and to our surprise we found that the man was still
> being detained, but was now allowed to sit down.  At this
> point we regrouped and went back to our apartment.
> 
> The other two people on the team, Wendy Lehman and Anne
> Montgomery, joined us and we all went to the scene.  The
> soldiers were angry and would not talk to us.  So Wendy and
> I decided to go back to the police and seek their
> assistance.  We explained the situation to the police
> officer on duty (the officer we had talked to previouly
> left) and he was receptive to the idea that the man had
> been detained an inordinate amount of time.
> 
> The police officer then talked to the soldier in charge of
> the detainment and after their conversation the officer
> said the soldier has agreed to let the man go.
> 
> Thinking it was all over Wendy and I returned to the scene
> where Bob and Anne were waiting.  To our disbelief we saw
> that the man was still being held. Wendy and I went back to
> the police station and voiced our dismay to the same
> officer. He then took us in his police jeep back to the
> scene and confronted the soldiers.  They reluctantly and
> finally released the detained man.  Not surprisingly the
> soldiers were angry with us for interfering in "their
> business".
> 
> After some 20 minutes of "conversation" their anger
> dissipated to the point that we were able to depart with
> the shaking of hands.  We got back home to our
> apartment at 11:15 PM exhausted by this four-hour ordeal.
> 
> Yes, I was exhausted after this encounter but also I  felt
> a lot of hope.  The hope of being able to talk to the so
> called "enemy", to start the process of understanding each
> other.  The hope when we're able to touch each others'
> humanity.  I sensed the police officer felt some
> compassion for the man detained. I think it took a lot of
> courage for him to confront the soldier. And the hope of
> respecting each others' human dignity. I felt respect of my
> person and I believe it was mutual with the police and
> soldiers.  I hope this is a small step.
> 

Christian Peacemaker Teams, P. O. Box 6508, Chicago, IL 60680
Tel./Fax: (312) 455-1199  email: cpt@igc.apc.org  CPT Home Page:
<a href=http://www.prairienet.org/cpt/>http://www.prairienet.org/cpt/</a>


FOWARDED BY:
-- 
Jim Lynch   written at Rochester, New York 
==============================================================================
jlynch@servtech.com   jlynch@igc.apc.org   

.
<hr>194/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-296</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B028-352</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108140510 text/html 2193
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:04:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2035
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: jlynch@servtech.com
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: CPT:  Israeli settlers take over Pa
Date: 17 Jun 1996 05:44:40

Subject: CPT:  Israeli settlers take over Palestinian building
From: "James R. Lynch"  jlynch@servtech.com 

	DELAYED POSTING

Forwarded message:
Date: Thu, 6 Jun 1996 11:42:59 -0500
From: cpt@igc.apc.org (Christian Peacemaker Teams, Chicago, IL)
Subject: Hebron -- Israeli settlers take over Palestinian buildin
 
NEWSFLASH
CPTNET
5 June 1996
"Israeli settlers take over Palestinian building in Hebron"
 
HEBRON, WEST BANK -- Today, the Waqf (Islamic Court)
discovered that settlers had occupied a Waqf building which
lies near Avraham Avinu settlement.  It is unclear when the
takeover began.

Representatives from the Waqf notified the Israeli Civil
Administration of the takeover, although reportedly Israeli
authorities said nothing could be done.  The settlers have
begun renovating the building for possible habitation.
 _________________________________________________
 
Christian Peacemaker Teams (CPT) is an initiative among
Mennonite and Brethren congregations, and Friends meetings who
support violence reduction Teams around the world.   Contact CPT
 at P. O. Box 6508 Chicago, IL 60680 tel. FAX 312-455-1199
e-mail cpt@igc.apc.org. To join CPTNET send an e-mail to
admin@MennoLink.org and the message: Group: menno.org.cpt.news
Visit us on the WEB: <a href=http://www.prairienet.org/cpt>http://www.prairienet.org/cpt</a>
 
FORWARDED BY:
-- 
Jim Lynch   written at Rochester, New York 
==============================================================================
jlynch@servtech.com   jlynch@igc.apc.org  

.
<hr>195/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-297</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-38</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108140552 text/html 8139
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:05:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7981
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: jlynch@servtech.com
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: CPTers Return to Hebron (fwd)
Date: 17 Jun 1996 06:01:45

From: "James R. Lynch"  jlynch@servtech.com 

Forwarded message:
From: "Gene Stoltzfus"  cpt@igc.apc.org 
Organization: CPT
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 1996 21:47:02 +0000
Subject: CPTers Return to Hebron
Reply-To: cpt@igc.apc.org
 
CPTNET
June 12, 1996
 
CPTERS RESPOND TO POLICE ORDER BANNING THEM FROM HEBRON
 
     In a statement to Israeli Police, members of Christian
Peacemaker Teams expressed their intention to continue their
violence reduction work in Hebron.  Following their arrest on May
28, four CPTers were released from prison under restrictions
that they not return to Hebron.  Given the increase of military
and settler activity since the Israeli elections, the team
believes that now, more than ever, their presence in Hebron is
crucial.

     Palestinians in Hebron have reported to CPTers an increase
in hostility and violence from both settlers and soldiers.  For
example, on May 29 and 30, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) raided
Ibrahimi Elementary School and beat students because the school
had raised the Palestinian flag. 

     News reports also indicate escalating tensions in Hebron.
According to the Palestine Report (6/7/96 p.16), "On June 1,
Likud leaders said there would be 'three soldiers for every
settler' in the city, and the number of settlers (now about 350 .
.. .) would be increased.  Recent clashes in Hebron suggest that
the addition of even more settlers may be calamitous.  Settlers
went on a rampage in downtown Hebron as election results came in
late on the night of 29 May, suggesting that Netanyahu had won." 

     Also on June 7 The Jerusalem Times front page story reported
that Israeli settlers "demolished the walls of a number of houses
in the Old City of Hebron [on June 5] . . . They also demolished
part of the Turkish baths in Hebron, belonging to the Islamic
Waqf [trust for religious property] department.  The settlers,
accompanied by Israeli bulldozers, tried to demolish the houses
completely, and threatened to open fire in case anyone tried to
stop them."  Local residents believe the settlers were attempting
to expand their settlement compounds in the city center.  Israeli
soldiers at the site did not prevent the settlers from destroying
homes or from harassing nearby Palestinians.

     The partial redeployment of the Israel Defense Forces from
Hebron was to take place, according to the Oslo II peace
agreements, no later than March 28.  Prior to the Israeli
elections on May 29, Prime Minister Shimon Peres postponed the
redeployment until after the elections.  Now Prime Minister-elect
Binyamin Netanyahu has said that redeployment will not occur in
Hebron.

     The violations of due process in the treatment of the CPTers
during their incarceration are indicative of the current trend in
Hebron.  The team had been helping a Palestinian friend prepare
his field for plowing by transplanting olive tree seedlings that
neighboring settlers had illegally planted there.   Israeli
soldiers arrived, took the CPTers and their companions into
custody without warning, and interrogated them over the course of
15 hours.   While in prison, team members were not allowed to see
their lawyer and were threatened with indefinite jail sentences.

     After reflecting on the counsel of local Palestinian
Christians and Muslims as well as Israeli friends who feel
overwhelmingly that the CPTers are needed in Hebron now, the team
sent the following statement to the Israeli police in Hebron with
the attached letter from the Hebron Municipality.
 
Statement from CPTers to Israeli Police in Hebron:

June 11, 1996 

     As members of the Christian Peacemaker Team who live and
work in the Palestinian city of Hebron, we wish to inform the
Israeli police that we do not consider ourselves bound by any
order from the Israeli occupation authorities to leave the city.

     We consider the Hebron Municipality to be the legitimate
political authority in Hebron, democratically elected by the
majority of the city's residents and accountable to them. The
Hebron Municipality invited us to come to Hebron as a violence-
deterring presence because the Israeli police have not protected
the Palestinian residents of the city from attacks by Israeli
settlers, nor have the Israeli police protected the Palestinian
residents from abuses by the Israeli military.  We do not
consider that the police of the Israeli military occupation have
the right to bar someone from Hebron for nonviolent  peace
activism who has been invited by the legitimate government of the
city.

     Moreover, reports we have received on conditions in Hebron
since our arrest and since the recent Israeli election indicates
that the threat of violence by Israeli settlers and soldiers
against Palestinian civilians is as great as at any time since
the arrival of our team in June, 1995.

     As members of the Christian Peacemaker Teams, we are
pacifists: we have consistently used and advocated non-violent
means of resisting violence and injustice.  We believe that the
only ultimate solution to violence is the provision of justice.

     We believe we are called to follow the model of the non-
violent Christ.  No race, religion or national boundary can
separate us from our responsibility to stand with our sisters and
brothers, to seek reconciliation and to overcome structures of
violence.  Jesus calls us to love friend and foe alike, to do
good to those who hate us.  This too is our task and intent.
 
Randy Bond (Grand Rapids, MI)
Wendy Lehman (Kidron, OH)
Tom Malthaner (Rochester, NY)
Robert Naiman (Chicago, IL)

Letter from the Hebron Municipality to Israeli Police in Hebron:

June 11, 1996

To whom it may concern:

     This is to confirm that the Christian Peacemaker Teams have
been in Hebron since June of 1995, oppose all forms of violence
and are always received graciously by the Municipality in order
to be a violence-deterring presence, particularly in the Old
City.

     It is our opinion that the presence of CPT in Hebron is now
more necessary than ever.  Not only has the redeployment of the
IDF from most of the city, promised in the Oslo Accords to occur
by the end of March, been repeatedly delayed, already since the
recent Israeli elections there has been an escalation of settler
activity in the Old City with the illegal occupation of a
building belonging to the Islamic Waqf. 

     We hope that all people of conscience and goodwill will
support the right of foreign guests to observe the conditions of
the people here, and the right of foreign journalists and other
observers to report the situation of the people here to
international opinion.
 
Mustafa Natsche
Mayor of Hebron
 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Christian Peacemaker Teams (CPT) is an initiative among Mennonite
and Church of the Brethren congregations and Friends meetings who
believe that the life of faith calls each of us to work to
transform conflict and violence into new possibilities for peace.
Contact CPT at P.O. Box 6508; Chicago, IL 60680; tel./fax: 312-
455-1199; e-mail: cpt@igc.apc.org.  To join CPTNET send an e-mail
message to admin@MennoLink.org with the following message: Group:
menno.org.cpt.news.  Visit us on the WEB:
<a href=http://www.prairienet.org/cpt>http://www.prairienet.org/cpt</a>
 
 
FORWARDED BY: 
-- 
Jim Lynch   written at Rochester, New York 
==============================================================================
jlynch@servtech.com   jlynch@igc.apc.org  

.
<hr>196/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-298</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-90</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108140635 text/html 3994
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:05:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3836
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: High Court Demands Explanation From
Date: 17 Jun 1996 06:55:55 (LOCAL)

Subject: High Court Demands Explanation From Attorney General

17 June 1996

PALESTINIAN HIGH COURT DEMANDS EXPLANATION 
FROM ATTORNEY GENERAL

DEMONSTRATION IN RAMALLAH FOR DR. SARRAJ'S 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE

On Sunday 16 June the Palestinian High Court, in response 
to the petition submitted by lawyers for Dr. Sarraj, demanded 
an explanation from Attorney General al Qidra about the 
continued detention of Dr. Eyad Sarraj, Commissioner 
General of the Palestine Independent Commission for 
Citizens' Rights.  The High Court is asking for an explanation 
as to why Dr. Sarraj's detention was extended for an 
additional 15 days (for supposedly striking a police officer  
while under interrogation), why he was arrested on drug 
charges on 9 June (charges which were subsequently 
dismissed by the Magisterial Court), and the reasons behind 
his previous arrest on 18 May.  The Court has given al Qidra 
five days in which to respond.

Attorneys for Dr. Sarraj, Khader Shkirat from the Land and 
Water Establishment and Raji Sourani from the Palestinian 
Center for Human Rights, presented arguments in support 
of the petition.  The petition demanded the immediate 
release of Dr. Eyad Sarraj, on the grounds that his continued 
detention was unlawfully extended by the State Security 
Court.  According to Mr. Arafat's decree which established 
this court, the State Security Court does not have the 
jurisdiction to hear criminal cases.  The civil court is 
responsible for hearing criminal cases, but Attorney General 
Al Qidra arbitrarily withdrew the case from the civil court and 
moved it to the State Security Court. Thus the State Security 
Court's decision is unlawful, and Dr. Sarraj's continued 
detention illegal. 

This is not the first time that cases have been transferred 
from the civil court to the State Security Court. A murder trial 
was recently transferred from the civil courts in the West 
Bank to the State Security Court, again in violation of the 
State Security Court's mandate.  This represents a 
dangerous trend in the continued decline of the Palestinian 
legal system - more and more cases are  improperly referred 
to a military-style tribunal owing its loyalty to Mr. Arafat, and 
away from the more independent civil courts which legally 
hold jurisdiction over these cases.  The trend seems to be 
that Mr. Arafat is distancing himself from traditional concepts 
of the rule of law.

DEMONSTRATION IN RAMALLAH

On 17 June several members of Parliament and about 200 
people, representing some 60 NGOs, gathered in Ramallah 
at the El Birreh Municipality building to protest the arrest and 
continued detention of Dr. Sarraj, to call for his immediate 
release, and to demand that the Palestinian Authority 
respect the basic principles of human rights and free 
speech.  Parliament members Hanan Ashrawi and Kadoora 
Faris were present at the peaceful demonstration, which 
lasted about two hours.  Palestinian police briefly tried to 
stop the demonstration, but then offered no resistance to 
the protesters.
_______________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a Palestinian NGO, 
dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the 
Paris-based International Federation for Human Rights.


.
<hr>197/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-299</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-138</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108140719 text/html 8875
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:06:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8717
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: ww@wwpublish.com
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Israel: Likud's Iron Heel Still Mad
Date: 17 Jun 1996 20:14:50

From: NY Transfer News Collective  nyt@blythe.org 
Subject: Israel: Likud's Iron Heel Still Made in USA 


-------------------------
Via Workers World News Service
Reprinted from the June 13, 1996
issue of Workers World newspaper
-------------------------

ISRAELI ELECTION: LIKUD'S IRON HEEL STILL MADE IN USA

By Richard Becker

Benjamin Netanyahu, leader of the Likud bloc, was elected 
as the new prime minister of Israel May 30, defeating the 
incumbent Shimon Peres by less than 1 percent of the vote.

The Likud bloc is an alliance of right and extreme-right 
parties. The most bigoted and fascist elements in Israel, 
particularly the many U.S.-born settlers in the occupied 
West Bank, are emboldened by Netanyahu's victory. More 
settlements and more attacks on Palestinians by settlers in 
the occupied areas can be expected.

Among those expected to hold top positions in the new 
cabinet is Gen. Ariel Sharon, a Likud leader. Sharon 
directed the Israeli invasion and mass bombing of Lebanon in 
1982. That left tens of thousands of Lebanese and 
Palestinian civilians dead and hundreds of thousands 
homeless.

He collaborated with Lebanese fascists to carry out the 
horrible massacre in the Sabra and Shatila Palestinian 
refugee camps the same year. Sharon is a war criminal of the 
first rank.

Netanyahu promised in his first post-victory speech that 
his government would not negotiate with the Palestinians 
over Jerusalem. He also called for greatly increasing the 
Israeli population by bringing in millions more Jewish 
people from around the world. This would require massive new 
settlements on Palestinian land.

The Likud program calls for continuing to occupy the Golan 
Heights, taken from Syria in the 1967 war, and keeping 
Israeli troops in the Palestinian city of Hebron, despite 
the peace accord's promise to withdraw them.

The underlying reactionary ideology of many Likud leaders 
calls for driving all remaining Palestinians out of what 
they call "Greater Israel." Netanyahu's father was a 
proponent of this wing of Zionism in the 1920s, long before 
the Israeli state existed.

Peres was the candidate of the Labor Party, which, despite 
its name, is the capitalist party that has governed Israel 
for most of its 48-year history. Both Likud and Labor are 
pro-U.S. and anti-Arab; both have systematically carried out 
policies of racism and brutal repression against the 
Palestinian people when they have held power.

At times, like during the Palestinian uprising known as 
the Intifada, they ruled together in a coalition government 
whose main objective was to crush the Palestinians.

While the Clinton administration strongly supported Peres 
and worked for his re-election, there is no doubt that the 
U.S. will continue to send billions of dollars in annual 
military and other aid to the Netanyahu government. 

The motivation for this "generosity" is not concern for 
the welfare of the Jewish people--or any other people, for 
that matter. The U.S. ruling class invests billions of 
dollars in Israel every year because Israel stands guard 
over U.S. capitalism's most valuable and profitable assets: 
the vast oil fields of the Middle East. Israel is 
imperialism's forward base in the midst of the oppressed 
Arab world.

The Pentagon has provided Israel with immense amounts of 
weaponry--high-tech, low-tech and nuclear, to carry out its 
assigned role in the imperialist system. Washington has also 
supplied the money to build thousands of new settlement 
units in the occupied West Bank and Gaza, and economic aid 
to sustain a European-level living standard in a country 
which has never had the economic base to support it.

The enormous assistance it receives makes Israel dependent 
upon Washington. The Israeli leaders and governing parties 
may have their own drives and interests, not always 
coinciding exactly with those of U.S. imperialism. But 
regardless of their ideology or inclination, none can ignore 
the strategic interests and policies of the United States.

WHAT WASHINGTON WANTS

Washington's support for Peres in this election was based 
upon his government's support for what is called the "peace 
process"--a major U.S. foreign policy initiative under both 
the Bush and Clinton administrations. This plan calls for 
the Palestinians to have limited autonomy within 60 percent 
of Gaza and 34 percent of the West Bank. The Israelis retain 
military, security and border control. 

The Palestinian Authority that has been established as the 
governing body is denied the right to engage in foreign 
affairs. There is no provision in the agreement for the 4 
million Palestinians living in forced exile.

By all accounts, living conditions for Palestinians in the 
occupied territories have sharply deteriorated since the 
"peace process" began. Raji Sourani, director of the 
Palestine Human Rights Center in Gaza, speaking after the 
election, described conditions "as the worst in the past 30 
years. The mood of the people in Gaza is that peace and the 
image of peace mean nothing."

Sourani called the situation "explosive."

While Peres and his predecessor, Yitzhak Rabin, supported 
the accord, Likud and the Israeli extreme right have opposed 
making any concessions to the Palestinians. In December 
1995, Rabin was assassinated by an Israeli opponent of the 
accord.

The negotiations for this agreement, which is still being 
implemented, began after the Gulf war and the collapse of 
the Soviet Union. U.S. policy makers believed that, weakened 
by these developments, the Palestine Liberation Organization 
led by Yasir Arafat would be forced to accept the terms 
brokered by Washington. 

However one views this agreement, the U.S. objective is 
clear: to gain stability in this vital region by liquidating 
the Palestinian Revolution. The Palestinian struggle has 
been central to the Arab liberation movement as a whole for 
half a century.

Opposition to the agreement has come from the Marxist 
left--including the Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine and the Democratic Front--and Islamic forces such 
as Hamas and Islamic Jihad. These organizations view the 
accord as falling far short of an independent state and 
compromising the future of the Palestinian people.

The PFLP, in a statement on June 1, said: "The election of 
Netanyahu has weakened the Palestinian Authority, which made 
a peace of capitulation with Israel, and strengthened the 
opposition which opposed this kind of peace." The 
organization stated that the election "paves the way for 
increased military operations during the coming period."

A Hamas spokesperson stated that if there was no 
withdrawal from Hebron, "the people are going to escalate 
their resistance."

The government of Syria responded to the election outcome 
with a statement that "commitment to Likud's election program 
will detonate the region and worsen tension and instability." 
The pro- U.S. regime in Egypt, the largest of the Arab 
countries, also expressed concern after a June 3 meeting in 
Cairo between Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Syrian 
President Hafez Al-Assad.

New instability, new tension, new resistance, and above 
all new explosions, are not what the U.S. government wants 
to see in the Middle East. And for Netanyahu and his new 
government, regardless of their campaign promises, what 
Washington wants will be the most important factor. 

                         - END -

(Copyright Workers World Service: Permission to reprint
granted if source is cited. For more information contact
Workers World, 55 W. 17 St., NY, NY 10011; via e-mail:
ww@wwpublish.com. For subscription info send message to:
ww-info@wwpublish.com. Web: <a href=http://www.workers.org>http://www.workers.org</a>

=================================================================
  NY Transfer News Collective   *   A Service of Blythe Systems  
           Since 1985 - Information for the Rest of Us           
              339 Lafayette St., New York, NY 10012              
  <a href=http://www.blythe.org>http://www.blythe.org</a>                  e-mail: nyt@blythe.org
=================================================================
.
<hr>198/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-300</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-190</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108140758 text/html 990
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:07:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 833
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: osnaije@worldmedia.fr
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Re: Do U Want To Receive MID-EAST REALI
Date: 19 Jun 1996 03:23:46

From: osnaije@worldmedia.fr (Olivia Snaije)
Subject: Re: Do U Want To Receive MID-EAST REALITIES?
Date: 19 Jun 1996 09:16:58 GMT

Yes I would be interested in receiving Mid EAst Realities but who are you and
who writes up the "news flashes"?  Also please contact me via another
address:  olivias@imaginet.fr
Thanks
.
<hr>199/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-301</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-237</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108140841 text/html 5021
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:08:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4863
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: rhanania@theramp.net
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanya
Date: 19 Jun 1996 12:46:23

From: "Ray Hanania"  rhanania@theramp.net 
Subject: Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanyahu's Pre-Conditions

Palestine Perspectives
June 19, 1996

Pre-Conditions of Netanyahu's No Pre-Conditions

By Ray Hanania
     He talks the talk.
     But does he walk the walk?
     With an American education under his belt,
Benjamin Netanyahu understands how little
sympathy the Arab World receives from the
West.
     He knows that the duplicitous nature of the
Arab Governments make them an easy target for
a double-talk scam.
     If he were an actor, he would have replaced Robert
Redford in the movie The Sting.
     And, instead of flashing a V-sign at his swearing in
as Prime Minister, he would have thumbed the side
of his nose.
     On the one hand, Netanyahu proclaims as if the
world were a Virgin, that he wants peace with 
"No pre-conditions."
     He sends signals across the deserts via his televised
Knesset speech and urges direct talks with all of the major Arab
Countries, yet he sends a low level emissary to "make
contact" with Palestine President Yasir Arafat who is captive in his
backyard.
     Netanyahu, desperate to repair his image as a hardliner,
is struggling to offset the world perception of a hardliner
who can quickly put the word Armageddon back in the world's
dictionary, with quick talk and empty words.
    And, how empty are his words?
     From one side of his mouth, Netanyahu
has declared to the world that there will be
"no pre-conditions to peace."
     But from the other side, Netanyahu has set
down basic pre-conditions that make Robert Redford's
character a saint.
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu declares as
he asserts, "There will be no negotiations
over Jerusalem."
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu yells, as
he asserts, "There will be no halt" to the
creation of Jewish settlements for his
extremist pals.
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu regales, as
he asserts, "There will be no further
exchange of land for peace."
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu bombasts,
as he asserts, "There will be no Palestinian
State."
     One might wonder what it is that Netanyahu is
willing to discuss while sitting at the peace table
with the King of Saudi Arabia, the Monarch of 
Jordan, the Militarist of Lebanon, and the Strongman
of Syria?
      No Jerusalem.
      No to settlement freezes.
      No to Land for Peace. 
      No to returning the Golan Heights.
      No to a Palestinian State.
      No to expanded Palestinian authority.
      According to Netanyahu, these are not
pre-conditions.
      Ridiculed as "Nazi-Yahoo" by his harshest
critics, and viewed as a "buckaroo" by the West,
Netanyahu will have to make a harder effort to redefine
his rejectionist nature, but that will require substantive
changes in his policies and his nature.
      Netanyahu, in a symbolic but purely Israeli political
maneuver, whittled down the two toughest extremists in
the Likud bloc, Ariel Sharon, and the late Menachem
Begin's son.
     But that won't be enough to fool the world or
restore the grudging confidence that the peace proces
was slowly attracting among the Arabs and Palestinians.
     No, Netanyahu has to prove that he is concerned with
"real peace."
     And that means meaningful contacts and discussions with
his nemesis Yasir Arafat.
    "Real peace" is defined not by emtpy words and 
false promises, but by the willingness and the eagerness to
"Compromise."
    But "compromise" is apparently not in the Netanyahu
dictionary which is slowly filling up with differing variations
of a word long forgotten in this Promised Land with No Promise:
     Let Armageddon begin.
     We might as well get it over with now.

     (Ray Hanania is former National
President of the Palestinian American
Congress, and a Chicago journalist. You can
subscribe to Palestine Perspectives by
sending an E-Mail message "Subscribe Column"
to rhanania@theramp.net. These columns are
archived on the Palestine Web Site at
<a href=http://www.usg.org/pac.htm>http://www.usg.org/pac.htm</a> ).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Villager Newspapers     VideoShark Video I & II
  Urban Strategies Group   Ray Hanania
<a href=http://www.usg.org>http://www.usg.org</a>    rhanania@theramp.net
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
<hr>200/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-302</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B029-289</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108140926 text/html 5025
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:08:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4867
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: rhanania@theramp.net
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Re: Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanya
Date: 19 Jun 1996 12:46:50

From: "Ray Hanania"  rhanania@theramp.net 
Subject: Palestine Perspective 6/18: Netanyahu's Pre-Conditions

Palestine Perspectives
June 19, 1996

Pre-Conditions of Netanyahu's No Pre-Conditions

By Ray Hanania
     He talks the talk.
     But does he walk the walk?
     With an American education under his belt,
Benjamin Netanyahu understands how little
sympathy the Arab World receives from the
West.
     He knows that the duplicitous nature of the
Arab Governments make them an easy target for
a double-talk scam.
     If he were an actor, he would have replaced Robert
Redford in the movie The Sting.
     And, instead of flashing a V-sign at his swearing in
as Prime Minister, he would have thumbed the side
of his nose.
     On the one hand, Netanyahu proclaims as if the
world were a Virgin, that he wants peace with 
"No pre-conditions."
     He sends signals across the deserts via his televised
Knesset speech and urges direct talks with all of the major Arab
Countries, yet he sends a low level emissary to "make
contact" with Palestine President Yasir Arafat who is captive in his
backyard.
     Netanyahu, desperate to repair his image as a hardliner,
is struggling to offset the world perception of a hardliner
who can quickly put the word Armageddon back in the world's
dictionary, with quick talk and empty words.
    And, how empty are his words?
     From one side of his mouth, Netanyahu
has declared to the world that there will be
"no pre-conditions to peace."
     But from the other side, Netanyahu has set
down basic pre-conditions that make Robert Redford's
character a saint.
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu declares as
he asserts, "There will be no negotiations
over Jerusalem."
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu yells, as
he asserts, "There will be no halt" to the
creation of Jewish settlements for his
extremist pals.
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu regales, as
he asserts, "There will be no further
exchange of land for peace."
     No pre-conditions, Netanyahu bombasts,
as he asserts, "There will be no Palestinian
State."
     One might wonder what it is that Netanyahu is
willing to discuss while sitting at the peace table
with the King of Saudi Arabia, the Monarch of 
Jordan, the Militarist of Lebanon, and the Strongman
of Syria?
      No Jerusalem.
      No to settlement freezes.
      No to Land for Peace. 
      No to returning the Golan Heights.
      No to a Palestinian State.
      No to expanded Palestinian authority.
      According to Netanyahu, these are not
pre-conditions.
      Ridiculed as "Nazi-Yahoo" by his harshest
critics, and viewed as a "buckaroo" by the West,
Netanyahu will have to make a harder effort to redefine
his rejectionist nature, but that will require substantive
changes in his policies and his nature.
      Netanyahu, in a symbolic but purely Israeli political
maneuver, whittled down the two toughest extremists in
the Likud bloc, Ariel Sharon, and the late Menachem
Begin's son.
     But that won't be enough to fool the world or
restore the grudging confidence that the peace proces
was slowly attracting among the Arabs and Palestinians.
     No, Netanyahu has to prove that he is concerned with
"real peace."
     And that means meaningful contacts and discussions with
his nemesis Yasir Arafat.
    "Real peace" is defined not by emtpy words and 
false promises, but by the willingness and the eagerness to
"Compromise."
    But "compromise" is apparently not in the Netanyahu
dictionary which is slowly filling up with differing variations
of a word long forgotten in this Promised Land with No Promise:
     Let Armageddon begin.
     We might as well get it over with now.

     (Ray Hanania is former National
President of the Palestinian American
Congress, and a Chicago journalist. You can
subscribe to Palestine Perspectives by
sending an E-Mail message "Subscribe Column"
to rhanania@theramp.net. These columns are
archived on the Palestine Web Site at
<a href=http://www.usg.org/pac.htm>http://www.usg.org/pac.htm</a> ).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Villager Newspapers     VideoShark Video I & II
  Urban Strategies Group   Ray Hanania
<a href=http://www.usg.org>http://www.usg.org</a>    rhanania@theramp.net
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
<hr>201/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-303</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-16</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108141005 text/html 1314
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:09:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1156
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: clarence@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Who are MER?
Date: 23 Jun 1996 10:18:57 +0100 (SVT)

Would anyone (not from MER) plese give some information on who the people 
behind "MID-EAST REALITIES" are. Judging from the language used they 
might be some kind of US sionist or islamist fundamentalists. Cf a recent 
item called "ARREST QIDRAH & THE STRANGE ASHRAWI MOVE" - or anything else 
they've written lately.

I am no friend of the individuals mentioned. Likewise, I am no enemy of 
the hero of the MER piece, Dr. Eyad Sarraj. But I am deeply suspicious of 
people spitting venom while while they talk - or shout.

No counter-mudslinging, please, just some sober background information on 
MER.

Clarence Ekman, Stockholm, Sweden
23 June 1996


.
<hr>202/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-304</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-62</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108141046 text/html 2675
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:10:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2517
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: rhanania@theramp.net
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: New Book to Be Published in August
Date: 23 Jun 1996 10:22:57

From: "Ray Hanania"  rhanania@theramp.net 

I am publishing a book entitled:

"I'm Glad I Look Like a Terrorist"

It is self-published, 262 pages, due out in August (in English). It 
contains 54 short stories and essays on growing up Arab in America. 
Most are founded on humor, although each is intended to help the 
reader, in an entertaining and educational way, understand the Arab 
American experience in America.
   A few of the essays have been published previously in Chicago 
Magazine and the Chicago Sun-Times, although most are new and written 
for this book.

    We are pre-selling copies of the book to help cover the cost of 
the publications.
    If anyone is  interested in purchasing copies, please contact me. 
They are $17.95 each (Pre-sold copies willa lso be autographed). We 
can't offer any special discounts, though, because the initial 
printing is only 5,000 copies, mostly distributed in the Chicago area 
.... a second printing is planned for 20,000 for distribution in the 
midwest, once the initial printing is sold-out.
   (Of course, I hope it makes it to the New Times Best Seller list, 
but who knows)

    Anyway, please feel to contact me at 312-629-9099 for information 
or e-mail to me at rhanania@theramp.net or rayhanania@aol.com

    We are also selling quantities of 50 books (autographed, etc) to 
groups ... the pre-sale purchases will help me pay for the 
publication ... profits will be used from the first printing to 
publish the larger printing ... and I hope to use the money to start 
a publishing house to publish new authors writing about the Middle 
East, Arab World and related subjects ...

    Regards
    Ray hanania
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Villager Newspapers     VideoShark Video I & II
  Urban Strategies Group   Ray Hanania
<a href=http://www.usg.org>http://www.usg.org</a>    rhanania@theramp.net
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
<hr>203/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-305</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-118</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108141129 text/html 1639
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:10:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1481
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: tbishopric@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Re: Who are MER?
Date: 24 Jun 1996 18:28:13

I don't know much about MER, but I think it is a one man show.  He writes 
electronic editorials frequently, some have good new information and others 
are not so useful.  I'm not sure of his sources or personal background.

Tim Bishopric


In article  APC&4'0'3768923'4b9@nn.apc.org , clarence@nn.apc.org wrote:
>Would anyone (not from MER) plese give some information on who the people 
>behind "MID-EAST REALITIES" are. Judging from the language used they 
>might be some kind of US sionist or islamist fundamentalists. Cf a recent 
>item called "ARREST QIDRAH & THE STRANGE ASHRAWI MOVE" - or anything else 
>they've written lately.
>
>I am no friend of the individuals mentioned. Likewise, I am no enemy of 
>the hero of the MER piece, Dr. Eyad Sarraj. But I am deeply suspicious of 
>people spitting venom while while they talk - or shout.
>
>No counter-mudslinging, please, just some sober background information on 
>MER.
>
>Clarence Ekman, Stockholm, Sweden
>23 June 1996
>
>
.
<hr>204/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-306</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-180</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108141218 text/html 1853
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:11:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1695
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: freedom@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: (Fwd) PALESTINE: Dr. Sarraj is rele
Date: 26 Jun 1996 01:22:18

From: "Hillel Barak"  freedom@netvision.net.il 
Subject: (Fwd) PALESTINE: Dr. Sarraj is released

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------
From:          ayadrama@trendline.co.il
Date:          Wed, 26 Jun 96 09:53:01 IDT
Subject:       Dr. Sarraj is released


Dear friends,

Dr. Sarraj is released today early in the morning around 3 o'clock. Thank you 
for your efforts and support.

Sincerely


Rana Ayyad
GCMHP  

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

If we believe absurdities we shall commit atrocities!    -Voltarie

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Check out the web site of the Alternative Informatiuon Center (AIC)
<a href=http://www.aic.org>http://www.aic.org</a>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
In protest of the censorship of the Internet by the United States 
Government I am including the words "fuck the U.S. Government" in my
..sig file and will include the words "fuck the U.S. Government" in 
all my letters and articles on the Internet. For more information 
see the Electronic Frontier Foundation's web page at 
http:\\www.eff.org\. 

.
<hr>205/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-307</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-232</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108141310 text/html 2130
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:12:21 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1972
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: PHR@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: FW: Dr. Sarraj--RELEASED
Date: 26 Jun 1996 07:04:33 (LOCAL)


---------------Original Message---------------
Dear Concerned Friends:

Tel Aviv--Physicians for Human Rights (PHR) announces that Dr. Eyad Sarraj, the Commissioner General of the Palestinian Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights and the director of the Gaza Community Mental Health Program, was released today, June 26, 1996 at 2:00am.  Dr. Sarraj was detained on June 9 for alleged illegal drug possession.  Before being released on bail from that allegation, the State Security Court ordered an arbitrary detention of 15 days for allegedly striking a Palestinian police officer.  Dr. Sarraj had no legal representation or notification of the latter charge.  However, Dr. Sarraj has finally been released from the latest detention.

On July 1, the Palestinian High Court will consider the legality of the arrest and detentions.

PHR wishes to thank all of those who made it possible for Dr. Sarraj to obtain his freedom.  Your efforts do not go unnoticed.  Thank you again.
  
*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
Physicians for Human Rights--Israel
P.O. Box 10235, Tel Aviv, 61101
Tel: +972-3-566-4526 Fax: +972-3-566-2527
E-mail:phr@netvision.net.il

Date: 06/26/96
Time: 14:42:05




----------End of Original Message----------

*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
Physicians for Human Rights--Israel
P.O. Box 10235, Tel Aviv, 61101
Tel: +972-3-566-4526 Fax: +972-3-566-2527
E-mail:phr@netvision.net.il

Date: 06/26/96
Time: 15:33:18

.
<hr>206/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-308</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B030-298</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108141355 text/html 2389
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:13:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2231
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Dr. Sarraj Released
Date: 27 Jun 1996 05:28:39 (LOCAL)

DR. EYAD SARRAJ RELEASED

27 June 1996

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 812364/824559
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il

Dr. Eyad Sarraj, Commissioner General of the Palestinian Independent 
Commission for Citizens' Rights, was released at 2:00 a.m. on June 26. 
 Dr. Sarraj had been imprisoned first for drug charges (charges which 
remain unproved, in serious doubt and for which he had already been 
released on bail by the magisterial court) and then for allegedly striking 
a police officer, an offense which was heard before the State Security 
Court.  Dr. Sarraj received an additional 15 days imprisonment following 
this second charge. 

Dr. Sarraj's midnight release falls on the eve of his scheduled hearing 
before the Security Court for this second charge.

His lawyers, attorneys Khader Shkirat and Raji Sourani, on 13 June 
had submitted a petition on his behalf to the Palestinian High Court, 
stating that the State Security Court had no jurisdiction to hear cases 
of a criminal nature, and that Dr. Sarraj was being detained illegally and 
in violation of due process.

On 1 July, the High Court will respond to the petition concerning the 
legal jurisdiction of the State Security Court.

LAWE wishes to thank all those who advocated on behalf of Dr. Sarraj, 
and for all those who contacted this office expressing their good 
wishes and support for him.
_______________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a human rights non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based 
International Federation for Human Rights. 



.
<hr>207/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-309</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B031-20</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108141437 text/html 3602
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:13:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3444
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: lawe@netvision.net.il
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: Due Process in Palestine
Date: 27 Jun 1996 05:30:45 (LOCAL)

AN EXERCISE FOR THE INDEPENDENT PALESTINIAN 
JUDICIARY

HIGH COURT PETITION DEMANDS IMMEDIATE RELEASE OF 
STUDENTS

27 June 1996

Land and Water Establishment
PO Box 20873
Jerusalem
Tel: (972) (2) 812364/824559
Fax: (972) (2) 811072
email: lawe@netvision.net.il

On 26 June five lawyers (Khader Shkirat, Ahmad Sayyad, Akram 
Samara, Ali Ghuzlan, Elia Theodory and Marwan al-Khatib) filed a 
petition at the Palestinian High Court in Ramallah on behalf of 10 Bir 
Zeit University students detained by the Palestinian Authority.  The 
students were arrested in March 1996, and have been detained 
without charge or trial for 100 days.  The petition calls for the students 
either to be charged with an offense, or to be released immediately.  

The lawyers submitted the petition at 11:00 a.m., in cooperation with 
the Human Rights Action Project at Bir Zeit University, against acting 
Minister of the Interior Yassir Arafat and Attorney General Khaled al 
Qidra.  The High Court heard the case within an hour, which was 
presented by Adv. Khader Shkirat.  The Court decided to issue a 
request for a written explanation from the Minister of Interior and from 
the Attorney General as to why due process had been violated, and 
legal procedures as enshrined in Palestinian law not followed.  The 
Court gave eight days for the request to be fulfilled.  

According to articles 16 and 108 of criminal legislation of 1961, no one 
may be detained for longer than 48 hours without charge or trial.  In 
addition, the students were arrested without an official order or arrest 
warrant.  The continued detention of the 10 students is in direct 
violation of Palestinian law, and in violation of normal procedures of due 
process.

In previous correspondence, both the state and military prosecutors 
have stated that they were not the responsible authorities for the 
arrests.  LAWE expresses its grave concern over the clear lack of due 
process and the need for a transparent legal process.  LAWE believes 
that many arrests and other violations of human rights are perpetrated 
outside the established legal and law enforcement systems, and are 
therefore difficult or impossible to appeal as there is no clear 
responsible authority.

LAWE sees this as a test case for the independent Palestinian 
judiciary, and as an important opportunity for the Palestinian Authority 
to affirm its commitment to the rule of law, due process and the respect 
for human rights.  The outcome of this case will certainly influence the 
development of the rule of law in Palestine.
_______________________________________________________
Land and Water Establishment is a human rights non-governmental 
organization, dedicated to preserving human rights through legal 
advocacy.  LAWE is also an affiliate member of the Paris-based 
International Federation for Human Rights.  LAWE can be contacted 
by phone, fax, or email: lawe@netvision.net.il.


.
<hr>208/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-310</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B031-62</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=1-40&menu=1.16&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108141520 text/html 6585
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:14:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6427
</DOCHDR>
<pre>
So: U-mid
From: odin@magg.net
Newsgroups: mideast.levant
Subject: FYI: Israel and Jordan partners
Date: 27 Jun 1996 09:18:15

From: PNEWS  odin@magg.net 

Reply-To: "Hank Roth's Progressive List [& PNEWS CONFERENCES]"
      PNEWS-L@SJUVM.STJOHNS.EDU 
Subject: FYI: Israel and Jordan partners

[*********PNEWS CONFERENCES************]

>From THE JERUSALEM POST 6/27/96: "Jordan and Israel conducted joint
searches for the infiltrators who ambushed the IDF patrol
yesterday, in an operation that had Israeli air force helicopters
flying over Jordanian air space and put at least one senior IDF
officer on Jordanian territory, military sources said. "The
coordination went very smoothly and the Jordanians did an
excellent job," a military source said. The searches were part
of a closely-coordinated effort that has existed along the
Jordanian-Israeli border for the last 18 months, including
coordinated border patrols...IDF sources said both the Israeli
and Jordanian armies are in close contact at all levels up to
company commander. They said Israel has helped train Jordanian
forces serving along the border to better spot potential
infiltrators. This effort is believed to have helped Jordan
handle the wave of Syrian-sponsored infiltration into the
Hashemite kingdom over the last two months. At the Arab League
summit in Cairo, which ended earlier this week, Jordan's King
Hussein presented his Syrian counterpart, Hafez Assad, with a
list of 50 incidents of terrorist infiltration. A Jordanian
security source said the nation's intelligence services have been
successful in preventing virtually all of the attempted attacks
in the kingdom, including an attempt to attack Israeli tourists
earlier this year...THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY needs to take
"necessary actions" against Syria if Damascus continues on the
path of terror, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu said yesterday
in an interview with The Jerusalem Post. Netanyahu's remarks came
hours before a Palestinian rejectionist group based in Damascus
claimed responsibility for the Jordan Valley infiltration and
ambush, in which three soldiers were killed and two wounded. The
premier shied away from the phrase "triple containment," which
those close to him use to describe a policy which Netanyahu said
before the election would involve the same sort of "sanctions"
imposed by the US against Iran and Iraq. "It's not a containment
policy. It's simply a policy that says that we're not going to
play by Syrian rules," Netanyahu said. "Syrian rules are that
they lash out with terrorism 360 degrees, obviously against
Turkey and against Jordan, and increasingly against us, and I
don't mean only Hizbullah. "Hamas, Islamic Jihad, and the Popular
Front are all based in Damascus, and they're all perpetrating
terrorist acts indirectly against Israeli citizens. This is
unacceptable. Syria has to know that a political price will be
exacted from Damascus if it continues." He said he wants the West
to stop turning a blind eye to Syrian-backed terror. "I want to
certainly persuade our allies, and especially the United States,
that this policy is detrimental not only to our interests but to
the interests of others." The West, he added, should "take the
necessary actions that would cause a rethinking in Damascus about
the utility of such an aggressive policy." Netanyahu refused to
say whether he would tell President Clinton during their White
House meeting scheduled for July 9 when and under what conditions
he would meet Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat or
pull back from Hebron. When asked if he is committed to bring
such answers to Washington, Netanyahu said, "No. I will bring an
answer when I have an answer." He said Israel accepts UN Security
Council Resolution 242, but said that "we have our own
interpretation" of the resolution...Asked if he would uphold
agreements reached by previous governments, Netanyahu said this
would be contingent upon Arab "reciprocity." He is still studying
the "very complicated" problem of Hebron, he said, but added that
under any circumstances, Israel would retain its current link
between Kiryat Arba and Hebron's Jewish enclaves. Netanyahu also
said he expects the Palestinians to reconvene to revoke the PLO
Covenant, since the Palestine National Council meeting in April
constituted a "partial step." "It should be absolutely clear that
the PNC has abolished that old charter and that whatever new
document they adopt is compatible with the declarations of peace
that they have put forward publicly," he said. Netanyahu
suggested he favored steps to improve the Palestinian economy.
But while he said he did not like the principle of closure, he
offered no timetable for lifting the current closure of the
territories..."


@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
              ***** PEOPLE BEFORE PROFITS ******
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
PNEWS CONFERENCES  provide "radical" alternative views with an 
  emphasis on justice, humanitarian positions and TRUTH.
   To subscribe to PNEWS-L [1400 subscribers], send request
to:  listserv@sjuvm.stjohns.edu  "SUBSCRIBE PNEWS-L  Your full name " 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
To subscribe to PAIN-L, all aspects of chronic pain; physical & political,
HEALTH & health-politics, [730 subscribers] send: "SUBSCRIBE
PAIN-L  Your full name " to:  listserv@sjuvm.stjohns.edu . 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
Nominations are now being accepted for FLAMING ASSHOLISM'S HALL-OF-SHAME:
[Vote or nominate an ASSHOLE]    <a href=http://www.applicom.com/pnews/>http://www.applicom.com/pnews/</a>
**************************************************************************
"Of course fascists should have free speech. But first cut out their
tongues."             [Harvey "Joe six-pack" Rossetti]
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
               Nolete te bastardes et carborundorum




.
<hr>209/520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-311</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B031-116</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108141605 text/html 4906
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:15:23 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4748
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 523 records<br>

41  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=41"> 37 19960627 Israel: Vanunu says agents killed h</a>
42  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=42"> 122 19960702 New US Surrogate in Mideast: Turkey</a>
43  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=43"> 204 19960703 Jerusalem Ad Campaign</a>
44  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=44"> 116 19960703 CMEP PRESS RELEASE</a>
45  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=45"> 161 19960703 NEW CHALLENGES</a>
46  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=46"> 64 19960704 female crimes/avro/chris bos</a>
47  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=47"> 46 19960705 Invitation: meeting concerning Pale</a>
48  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=48"> 20 19960604 news and actions about/from North Africa (Maghreb)</a>
49  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=49"> 39 19960606 Launch of Western Sahara Web Site</a>
50  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=50"> 113 19960614 BIRZEIT UNIVERSITY LAUNCHES WEBSITE!</a>
51  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=51"> 36 19960708 KURD-L Is Back!</a>
52  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=52"> 87 19960709 Birzeit University Press Release</a>
53  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=53"> 84 19960709 Irish Republican Socialist Solidarity With The Kurdish People</a>
54  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=54"> 87 19960709 Birzeit University Press Release</a>
55  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=55"> 87 19960709 Birzeit University Press Release</a>
56  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=56"> 69 19960710 PKK 4th National Conference In Kurdistan</a>
57  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=57"> 379 19960711 MED-TV Has Been Banned</a>
58  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=58"> 101 19960711 Foreign Aid Alert</a>
59  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=59"> 231 19960711 Church Leaders Foreign Aid Letter</a>
60  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=60"> 101 19960711 Foreign Aid Alert</a>
61  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=61"> 231 19960711 Church leaders foreign aid letter</a>
62  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=62"> 88 19960714 ARGK: "To Remain Silent Is To Approve"</a>
63  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=63"> 378 19960715 Re: MED-TV Has Been Banned</a>
64  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=64"> 200 19960716 "The Revolution In Kurdistan Is A Necessity"</a>
65  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=65"> 193 19960715 Bethlehem in the Year 2000</a>
66  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=66"> 95 19960716 LAWE: New Mission, New Name</a>
67  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=67"> 79 19960717 The West Bank and Settlement Expans</a>
68  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=68"> 38 19960718 Palestine Olympic Team address</a>
69  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=69"> 41 19960717 Re: "The Revolution In Kurdistan Is A Necessity"</a>
70  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=70"> 84 19960719 (Fwd) Settler Aggression and Land C</a>
71  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=71"> 84 19960719 Re: (Fwd) Settler Aggression and Land C</a>
72  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=72"> 76 19960719 Settler Aggression and Land Confisc</a>
73  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=73"> 48 19960721 First prisoner dies in hunger strike in Turkey</a>
74  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=74"> 223 19960722 David Korn: "A Washington Arrest"</a>
75  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=75"> 92 19960722 Turkish Hungerstriker Dies!</a>
76  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=76"> 85 19960722 Kani Yilmaz Update</a>
77  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=77"> 212 19960722 Green Left #238: Israel's Quarrelli</a>
78  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=78"> 87 19960722 Gathering Storm in the Middle East</a>
79  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=79"> 45 19960724 Re: DHKP-C fighter dies in hunger strike till death</a>
80  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=41-80&menu=1.16&q=so&in=80"> 78 19960724 Support For MED-TV</a>
<hr>41-80/523    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=521-560">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-312</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA024-000253-B031-179</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=481-520 194.10.201.200 19970108141650 text/html 5227
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 15:16:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5069
</DOCHDR>
<pre>browse -- 523 records<br>

481  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=481"> 50 19961222 PKK Sympathizers Sentenced In Berlin</a>
482  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=482"> 127 19961224 Help Needed For Atrush Camp, Kurdistan</a>
483  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=483"> 149 19961226 BZU Update: Hamdan Ordered Detained</a>
484  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=484"> 146 19961226 Challenge 41</a>
485  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=485"> 73 19961228 Latest News on Osman Murat Uelke, 2</a>
486  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=486"> 157 19961230 An Analysis Of Grand Plans Over The Heads Of Kurds</a>
487  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=487"> 98 19961231 Release Of 6 To Turkey Opens Door With Rebels</a>
488  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=488"> 38 19961231 Kurdistan Workers Party Leader Calls For Peace With Turkey</a>
489  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=489"> 95 19961230 HEBRON - LIE of the Week</a>
490  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=490"> 94 19961230 HEBRON - LIE of the Week (fwd from:</a>
491  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=491"> 164 19961230 WW ON MIDDLE EAST TALKS</a>
492  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=492"> 203 19970101 Press Release: Holy Sepulchre Rotun</a>
493  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=493"> 166 19961230 Re: An Analysis Of Grand Plans Over The Heads Of Kurds</a>
494  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=494"> 32 19961231 DHKC Wishes Everyone A Happy 1997!</a>
495  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=495"> 107 19961231 News From The Guerrilla War In Kurdistan</a>
496  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=496"> 57 19961231 Turkish Police Beat Human Rights Activists In Southeast</a>
497  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=497"> 32 19961231 Turkish Forces Cross Into South Kurdistan</a>
498  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=498"> 31 19970101 Ozgurluk News Agency Page</a>
499  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=499"> 108 19970101 A Middle East Update - 28 December</a>
500  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=500"> 84 19970101 Seek Peace of Hebron</a>
501  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=501"> 197 19970101 A Middle East Update - 24 December</a>
502  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=502"> 101 19970101 Sexual Harassment in the Name of th</a>
503  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=503"> 59 19970101 The Irshalem-Jerusalem Society</a>
504  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=504"> 86 19970101 Ras El-Amud: Current Situation</a>
505  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=505"> 329 19970101 Nazareth Equality Conference Report</a>
506  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=506"> 123 19970102 Forcible Jahalin Expulsion with Heb</a>
507  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=507"> 127 19970102 Who is responsible for the Hebron S</a>
508  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=508"> 329 19970101 Equality Conference Statements</a>
509  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=509"> 128 19970102 Disappearances In Turkey - By Kathryn C. Porter</a>
510  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=510"> 320 19970103 Joint Statement From The DHKP And PKK</a>
511  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=511"> 47 19970102 Palestine/Israel: israel-hebron-inc</a>
512  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=512"> 139 19970103 SHAHAK Condemns Labor Zionism - MER</a>
513  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=513"> 120 19970102 Palestine/Israel: Hebron redeployme</a>
514  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=514"> 89 19970103 HEBRON: Msg from descendants of 192</a>
515  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=515"> 95 19970103 A Pledge by Christians to Jews</a>
516  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=516"> 487 19970104 PNEWS: Remember the Six-Day War!</a>
517  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=517"> 50 19970106 Thousands March To Protest Corruption In Turkey</a>
518  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=518"> 46 19970105 Re: PNEWS: Remember the Six-Day War!</a>
519  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=519"> 167 19970105 1996 - Vicious, Hypocritical Year i</a>
520  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?rg=481-520&menu=1.16&q=so&in=520"> 449 19970105 Palestine/Israel: Don't expose Isra</a>
<hr>481-520/523    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=1-40">  First </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=441-480">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=521-560">  Next </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&q=so&rg=521-560">  Last </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftr?menu=1.16&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="http://www.knooppunt.be/">  Home </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-313</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000217-B029-5</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f 194.10.201.200 19970107155404 text/html 1440
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 16:53:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1284
</DOCHDR>
<body bgcolor="#ffffee" font size="+1" link="#008000" alink= "#000099" vlink="#139000" TEXT="#304000">
 Zoeken/Chercher/Search Peace - Vrede
<TITLE> Peace - Vrede </TITLE>
<BODY>
  <hr>
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftw">
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.12>
      Query: <input name="q" size=60>
    <p>
    <input type="submit" value=" Search ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear ">  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40"> browse </a>
    <p>
List number of hits: <input type=radio name=rg value=1-20 checked> 20 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-40> 40 
	<input type=radio name=rg value=1-80> 80 

  </form>
	<pre>
	Just fill in words, with spaces in between. 
	Only a space is OR. Use AND and NOT to in/exclude more words.
	Precede a numeric query with a space (like:  1992)

	In the following hitlist: click on the first number for context.

	The function below shows which words start with given part
	</pre> 
  <form method="GET" action="/cgi-bin/ftw">
      <input type=hidden name="in" value=x>
      <input type=hidden name="menu" value=1.12>
      Expand: <input name="q" size=15>

    <input type="submit" value=" Expand ">
    <input type="reset" value=" Clear "> 
  </form>
<HR>
</BODY>
<hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-314</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA020-000218-B046-209</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970107173344 text/html 6863
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 18:33:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6707
</DOCHDR>
<pre>so -- 695 hits<br>

<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c1"> 1</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=1">   307 960530 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c2"> 2</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=2">   275 960618 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c3"> 3</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=3">    23 960620 Report on Swedish arms trade</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c4"> 4</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=4">    48 960621 Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c5"> 5</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=5">    24 960623 Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c6"> 6</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=6">   327 960624 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales t</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c7"> 7</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=7">    37 960628 Indonesian Airshow</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c8"> 8</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=8">   262 960628 Arms acquisitions in Indonesia</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c9"> 9</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=9">    30 960629 Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c10"> 10</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=10">   271 960628 CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 53</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c11"> 11</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=11">    29 960530 VOTE FOR PEACE</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c12"> 12</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=12">   111 960531 Internationaal Gerechtshof onder druk.</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c13"> 13</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=13">   100 960531 Acties in de USA</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c14"> 14</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=14">   180 960531 Protestbrief tegen Nucleaire testen</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c15"> 15</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=15">    49 960606 FReeDoM, WHaT DoeS iT MeaN To U ?????????????</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c16"> 16</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=16">    75 960613 Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c17"> 17</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=17">    83 960614 NIEUWE INFO:Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c18"> 18</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=18">    37 960623 Innerlijke vrede</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c19"> 19</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=19">    29 960628 Vredes-ideeen gevraagd</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c20"> 20</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=20">    46 960628 Re: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c21"> 21</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=21">    64 960629 8 juli uitspraak inzake Kernwapens door Internationaal Gerecht</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c22"> 22</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=22">   156 960629 !!!Uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof inzake Kernwapens!!!  </a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c23"> 23</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=23">    74 960630 Vertaling persbericht Internationaal Gerechtshof d.d. 28 juni</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c24"> 24</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=24">   259 960703 new CTBT text</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c25"> 25</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=25">    82 960528 Re: Orphaned Response</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c26"> 26</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=26">    69 960527 Re: Computers Released -- what happens</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c27"> 27</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=27">    43 960528 update: another prisoner sentenced</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c28"> 28</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=28">    89 960528 CAMPAIGN FOR CORN</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c29"> 29</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=29">   186 960528 Message from Rev. Lucius Walker</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c30"> 30</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=30">   188 960528 Message from Rev. WAlker -- Fast fo</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c31"> 31</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=31">    64 960528 Tiananmen Masscre</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c32"> 32</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=32">    73 960529 Connections '96</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c33"> 33</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=33">    64 960529 Media Advisory for FAST for LIFE</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c34"> 34</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=34">    23 960530 T/T's posted at igc</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c35"> 35</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=35">   144 960530 Children Now Update</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c36"> 36</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=36">    65 960530 Warren Christopher SAMPLE LETTER</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c37"> 37</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=37">    26 960602 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c38"> 38</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=38">    83 960601 FAST for LIFE UPDATE -- Congression</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c39"> 39</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=39">   324 960530 Askia Muhammad on Fast for Life</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c40"> 40</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=40">    37 960530 tapes for Tuzla (fwd)</a>
<hr>1-40/695    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=41-80">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-315</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B030-235</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c1 194.10.201.200 19970108023632 text/html 797
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:35:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 640
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database:
-- From back issues of Arms Control Today
- "Clinton's Conventional Arms Export Policy: SO Little Change," May 1995,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.conarmex.txt
- "Clinton, Bhutto Seek Resolution to `Pressler' Ban on F-16 Deliveries,"
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1">  Article </a><hr>1/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-316</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-12</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108023727 text/html 16665
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:36:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16506
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51
Date: 30 May 1996 10:19:34

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 51
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			May 30, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Global Security Concerns: Anticipating the Twenty-First Century, edited by
Dr. Karl P. Magyar and Lt. Col. Bradley S. David, Air University Press,
Maxwell Air Force Base, March 1996. See Chap. 13, "Conventional Armaments:
Mapping Warfare in the Twenty-First Century" by Mark Browne, pp. 239-258.

  Military Technology, Vol. 20 #4, 4/96, "Quo Vadis, Asian Defence?:
Conventional Arms Proliferation in East/Southeast Asia," pp. 10-12, 14-15.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, April 24, 1996, "GGC [Gulf Cooperation Council] Air
Forces," starts p. 18

  Aerospace Daily, April 30, 1996, "Indonesia's Suharto said to okay F-16
buy," p. 181.
  
  Jane's Intelligence Review, May 1996, "Burma develops its ability to build
arms," pp. 233-235.

  The Atlantic Monthly, May 1996, "Blowback," [The CIA poured billions into
a jihad against Soviet-occupied Afghanistan, creating a militant Islamist
Abraham Lincoln Brigade believed to have been involved in bombings from
Islamabad to New York. Is Bosnia next?],  p. 24, 26-28, and 36.

  The DISAM Journal, of International Security Assistance Management, Vol.
18, No. 3, Spring 1996, "Fiscal Year 1996 Security Assistance Legislation,"
, pp. 19-58.

  Boston Globe, May 9, 1996, "US sees conflict of interest over arms:
Commerce study looks at `offsets'," p. 1.

  The New Yorker, May 13, 1996, "What's the real Iran-Bosnia scandal?," p. 7.

  Defense News, May 13-19, 1996, "Finland Will Barter Missiles for Debt:
Delivery of Air Defense Weapons Would Reduce Russian Obligation," p. 30;
"Mirage Buy to Delay Pakistani Budget Cuts," p. 32.

  Civilian Pawns: Laws of War Violations and the Use of Weapons on the
Israel-Lebanon Border, Human Rights Watch Arms Project and Human Rights
Watch/Middle East, Released May 22, 1996, 142pp.

  Offsets In Defense Trade: A Study Conducted under Section 309 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, As Amended, Prepared By U.S. Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Export Administration, Office of Strategic Industries
and Economic Security, May 21, 1996, (73pp., not counting 4 appendices)

  Washington Post, May 22, 1996, "Specter Says Top Officials Hid Arms
Policy," p. A25.

  Washington Post, May 23, 1996, "U.S. Arrests Suspects With Ties to Chinese
Arms Firms in Gun Smuggling Sting," p. A16.

  New York Times, May 23, 1996, "Chinese Sought In Plot To Import Arms to
the U.S.," p. 1.

  Washington Post, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Executives Indicted in
Smuggling," p. A20.

  Washington Times, May 24, 1996, "Customs agents crack arms-smuggling ring
tied to Chinese VIPs," p. A3; and  "Talbott rebuts Woolsey on Iran-Bosnia
briefing: Tells Hill panel of arms-policy change," p. A11.

  New York Times, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Seized in Undercover Inquiry:
Raids Raise Questions on Officials' Knowledge, and Trade Status," p. A12.

  Washington Post, May 25, 1996, "China Is Asked to Aid Illicit Arms Probe,"
p. A6; and "Sowing Mayhem," [re landmines] [What's on Earth feature], A17.

  Defense News, May 20-26, 1996, " Industry Experts Doubt Russia's Plan To
Become Global Arms Export Force," pp. 42; and "U.K. Makes Final Effort To
Sell Subs to Canada," p. 44.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, May 27, 1996, "U.S. Export Push
Challenges Europeans," pp. 20-22; "$28-Billion Market Targeted by U.S.," p.
20; [for further details about the Clinton Administration's "Showcase Europe
aerospace marketing strategy and its "major projects list" in Western and
Central Europe call Will Fenter at the US Embassy in Paris. Phone # 33 1 43
12 23 18]; and "Sukhoi Upgrades Geared to South Asian Market," p. 57.
  New York Times, May 29, 1996, "Gun-Running in the Balkans: CIA and
Diplomats Collide," p. 1; and "Beijing Vows To Punish Unauthorized Arms
Exports," p. 5

  Wall Street Journal, May 29, 1996, "Ambassador Is In for Grilling Over
Arms Flow: Galbraith Scheduled to Give First Open Testimony On Shipments to
Bosnia," p. A9.

  Defense News, May 27-June 2, 1996, "U.S. Air Force To Certify AEW Hercules
for Export," pp. 4, 36; and "Albania Will Buy 5 U.S. Patrol Boats: Deal
Marks First U.S. Shipment of Equipment to Former East Bloc," p. 16

  Jane's Defence Weekly (Back Issues)
- 20 March 1996, "Brazil to give priority to SIVAM over F-5 upgrade," p. 6;
"Russia talks sales with eight nations," p. 8; "B-2 flypast marks US
presence at Chile airshow," p. 8; "Lockheed Martin confident that USA will
lift [combat] aircraft sale ban [to Latin America]," p. 8; "Hellfire deal
for Norway," p. 12; "First two La Fayettes ready to sail for Taiwan," p. 14;
and "Angola urged to reduce mines," p. 15.
- 27 March 1996, "Dutch join pact against anti-personnel mines," p. 12; and
"Russia in billion dollar arms sales to Iran
- 17 April, 1996, "UAE Navy to take over ex-Dutch Kortenaers," p. 5, "USA
restores grant aid training to Indonesia," p. 27; 
- 24 April, 1996, "UK radar will equip Chinese AEW aircraft," p. 3; "US
exporters face greater offset demands," p. 5; "China is poised to buy third
batch of Su-27s," p. 10
- 1 May 1996, "Cypriot arms build-up continues with T-80 buy," p. 3;
"Boutros-Ghali attacks vicious circle of global arms sales," p. 5; "USA and
Mexico work out UH-1H transfer," p. 8; and "France seeks shake-up of export
policy," p. 25.
- 8 May 1996, "MLU [Mid-Life Update]: Giving a new lease of life to F-16s,"
pp. 26-27;
- 15 May 1996, "Boutros-Ghali criticizes failure to ban landmines," p. 4;
and "USA urged to lift FMS ban [to Latin America], p. 5.
- 22 May 1996, "Global military spending is lowest for 20 years," p. 3; "USA
takes first step in banning anti-personnel mines," [Turkish] F-4E upgrade
accord `close'," p. 12; "Singapore to limit mine exports," p. 14; "S Africa
sales hit $198m," p. 17

 	Land Mines
  Soldiers, May 1996, "Demining Honduras," p. 21.
  Los Angeles Times (Wash. Ed.), May 8, 1996, "Long, Slow War on Land Mines:
Gain at Geneva meeting is just a fraction of what is needed," p. 10.
  Dallas Morning News, May 8, 1996, "Demonstrators rally for land mine ban,"
May 8, 1996, p. 10.
  Washington Post, May 16, 1996, "Clinton Won't Change Land Mine Policy:
President Seeks to Avoid Political Risk in Election Year, Critics Say," p. A11.
  Army Times, May 20, 1996, "Ban the production of land mines," p. 54.
  Washington Post, May 17, 1996, "Clinton Rejects a Ban on Use of Land
Mines," p. A24
  Aerospace Daily, May 17, 1996, "U.S. retains some anti-personnel mines for
Korea scenario," p. 284.
  Wall Street Journal, May 17, 1996, "Killing Fields: Land Mines Prove to Be
Even harder to Detect Than They Are to Ban: Technological Shortcomings In
Equipment Have Some Blasting Army Funding," Starts on p. A1.
  Washington Post, May 20, 1996, "The Agony of Mines," (Editorial), p. A20.
  Washington Post, May 21, 1996, "Land Mine Fizzle," (column by Mary
McGrory), May 21, 1996, p. A2.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database:
-- From back issues of Arms Control Today
- "Clinton's Conventional Arms Export Policy: <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>So</a> Little Change," May 1995,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.conarmex.txt
- "Clinton, Bhutto Seek Resolution to `Pressler' Ban on F-16 Deliveries,"
May 1995, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.pressler.txt
- "Clinton Waives Ban on Arms Sales to israel Boycott Supporters," May 1995,
At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.mideast/.israel/.waiveban.txt
- "Congressmen Seek Clinton Support For Stronger Landmine Prohibitions," May
1995, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnccw.txt
- "UN Conventional Arms Register Participation Declines Slightly," December
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.rgprtdec.txt
- "Pakistan Looks to Russia, France for Advanced Aircraft and Subs,"
December 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.paklkrus.txt
- "Conventional Arms Control Initiatives: Russia as a Special Case, December
1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.conarmru.txt
- "House Imposes New Limits On U.S. Military Aid Programs," August 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.u.s/.secassit/.newlimit.txt
- "Turkey, Faced With Budget Problems Looks to Moscow for Arms," June 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.turkey/.turk-mos.txt
- "Global Arms Sales Show Decline, But Upswing Could Come Soon," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armsaldn.txt
- "New Law Would Force Disclosure of `Offset' Arms Sales," May 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.offsets/.lawdiscl.txt
- "U.S. Bids to `Cap' Indian-Pakistani Program Faces Opposition," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.capinpak.txt
- "Clinton, at U.N., Proposes New Landmine Initiative," November 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnpro.txt
- "Pentagon Renews Direct Support for U.S. Arms Makers at Air Show," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.tradesho/.nwsupair.txt
- "Congress to Consider `Code of Conduct' for U.S. Arms Transfers," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.codeofco/.code.txt
- "Congress Blocks Conversion Funds As Loan Guarantees For Arms Sales,"
December 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.congblok.txt
- "Book, Banker Re-kindle Charges Of U.S. Arms Sales to Iraq," December
1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.pergulf/.iraq/.iraqsale.txt
- "Fate of U.S. Loan Guarantees for Arms Sales Abroad Still Uncertain,"
October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.fateuncr.txt
- "Factfile: U.S. Conventional Arms Transfers,"October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armtrans.txt
- "United States Maintains Ranking As World's Top Arms Exporter," September
1993, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.ustopaex.txt
- "Clinton Hears Congressional Views on Restraining Global Arms Trade,"
September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.congview.txt
- "Factfile: UN Register of Conventional Arms," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.register.txt
- "Arming Ethnic Conflict," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.small/.ethnic.txt
- "Yugoslave Crisis Renews Debate On Ending Bosnian Arms Embargo," May 1993,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.yugoslav/.bosembar.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: The Debate on the Future Issues,"
October 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.undebate.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: A New Instrument for Cooperative
Security," April 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.coopsec.txt
- "Russia's `New Look' Arms Sales Strategy, October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.rusnewlk.txt
Landmines
- DoD May 16, 1996 Background Briefing on Landmine Policy At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.dodbrief.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet: U.S. Demining Program At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House News Briefing on "New" Landmine Policy (including
statements by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense
William Perry, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright,
and Q&A Session), At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the President, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-05-.tex
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen.
Shalikashvili, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.jcstatem
- May 16, 1996 Statement of Sen. Patrick Leahy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.lm960516.htm
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet "U.S. Announces Landmine Policy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet, "U.S. Efforts to Address the Problem
of Antipersonnel Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- Star Wars Puts On Civvies to Hunt Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lmclrg

	New Links to other Web Sites
The [UK] Landmine Control Programme: A Humanitarian Initiative;
 The Humanitarian Foundation of People Against Landmines; 
Mine Facts; 
Norwegian's People's Aid - International Demining Activities; 
Landmines: Hidden Killers (From UNICEF's State of the World Children 1996
report); [U.S.A.] Landmine Use Moratorium Act of 1995; 
Landmines (From One World Online); 
Landmine Related Web Sites; 
Oxfam Home Page; 
Terrestrial Remote Sensing Projects; 
Dumb Landmines Versus Smart Landmines; 
Mine Warfare Association; 
Landmines Home Page (Slow Access)
DeTec - Demining Technology Center
[Australian] Assistance to Defence Exporters

  NEW!!  Recommended!! One of the more useful products available at the
recent CCW Landmine Review conference in Geneva was a multimedia CD-ROM
entitled "Random Ambush", published by the International Committee of the
Red Cross. Use is made of photos, voice recordings, video clips and
high-quality graphics to present a wide range of information on
antipersonnel mines and issues: the different types of mines; their
production, selling,  and export; injuries caused by mines, treatment and
rehabilitation of their victims, social and economic costs arising from
their use, techniques of mine clearance, gaps in international law governing
the use of antipersonnel mines, and the worldwide campaign to ban them.
	The program can be run on both Windows and Macintosh computers. The price
is 25 Swiss francs / $20.00
	Copies may be ordered from the International Committee of the Red Cross,
Division of Public Information, 19, av. De la Paix, CH 1202, Geneva
Switzerland or by E-mail at com_dip.gva@gwn.icrc.org

  New Books
- Arms Trade and the Future of the Russian Defense Industry, by V. Khrutsky
and T. Latypov; 1995, 124pp.; and The European Arms Trade, edited by Martin
Navias and Susan Willett, 155pp, 1996, both by Nova Science Publishers.

  Newsflash!
	- "U.S. President Bill Clinton's Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
(TPCC) will soon recommend that the United States launch multilateral
negotiations to eliminate, or reduce, the use of offsets in international
arms trade...The interagency TPCC is expected to include the recommendation
in its July-planned annual report."
--Defense News, May 27-June 3, 1996, p. 2

	- The National Security Archive has opened their web site. It has various
arms trade collections, including those donated by Michael Klare and Cindy
Aronson. To see what they have set your browser to
<a href=http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive>http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive</a>

.
<hr>1/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-317</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-51</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c2 194.10.201.200 19970108023809 text/html 473
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:37:33 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 316
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2">  Article </a><hr>2/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-318</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-100</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108023856 text/html 14830
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:38:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14671
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52
Date: 18 Jun 1996 07:45:55

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 52
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 17, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>
 

  Sidel, Victor  "Towards a Better World: The international arms trade and
its impact on health," British Medical Journal, December 23-20, 1995, V.
311, pp 1677-80,

  International Military Education and Training: An Assessment, October
1995, John A. Cope, McNair Paper 44, Institute for National Strategic
Studies, National Defense University, Washington, D.C., 70pp. (See online
table of contents at <a href=http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html>http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html</a>

  Military Technology, 5/96, "Winds of Change At Fidae ['96 Air Show], pp.
86-87.

  Recycled Weapons: American Exports of Surplus Arms, 1990-1995, A Study by
the Arms Sales Monitoring Project of the Federation of American Scientists
by Paul F. Pineo and Lora Lumpe, May 1996, 36pp. (NOTE: This is also
available online at <a href=http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm>http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm</a>

  Inside the Pentagon, May 16, 1996, "New Arms Transfer Teams To Help Army
Streamline Weapons Sales," p. 1

  Los Angeles Times, May 24, 1996, "U.S. Agents Say Chinese Tanks, Rockets
Offered," p. 1.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "AWACS-type C-130 set to get export
go-ahead," ;"$161m reconnaissance upgrade for Dutch F-16s," p. 8; "Ethiopian
Navy for sale to highest bidder," p. 15; 

  The Free China Journal, May 31, 1996, "US to sell missiles to Taiwan to
bolster defense," p. 1.

  Defense Daily, May 31, 1996, "Egyptians Sign Contract To Buy 21 F-16
Fighters," p. 358.

  Asia-Pacific Defence Reporter, May-June 1996, "The new Sino-Russian
partnership: SU-27s the icing on the cake," pp. 12, 13.

  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Will France Stay Number
One? Being the World's Foremost Arms Seller Is Not A Coveted Honor," p. 12.

  Jane's Intelligence Review, June 1996, "Russian arms makers seek business
abroad," pp. 246-247.

  Jane's Intelligence Review & Jane's Sentinel Pointer, June 1996,
"Death-blow to the [South African] arms industry [re second Cameron
Commission report], p. 12.

  Army, June 1996, "Security Assistance -- A Force Multiplier," pp. 42-46;
and "Security Assistance Programs: Promoting Democracy in the Post-Cold War
Era," pp. 25, 26, 28, 30.

  Washington Post, June 2, 1996, "Hill Panels May Enter Controversy Over CIA
Action on Croatia Envoy: State Dept. Officials Angered by Reports Covering
Bosnian Arms Policy," p. 12.

  Newsweek, June 3, 1996, "A Call to Open Arms: Congress is investigating
why U.S. Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbraith ignored the U.N. embargo and
a and allowed weapons into Bosnia," p. 58.

  Washington Post, June 5, 1996, "U.S. to Sell Jets to Indonesia, Transfer
Proceeds to Pakistan," p. A27.

  Los Angeles Times, June 5, 1996 (Wash. Ed.), "U.S. Shares Weaponry With
World, Report Says," p. 2.

  London Financial Times, June 5, 1996, "BaE wins Kuwaiti missile contract,"
p. 8.

  Washington Post, June 6, 1996, "U.S. Operation in Turkey Seeks To Train,
Unite Croats and Muslims," p. A21.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 6, 1996, "Guns and Money: Illicit arms
trade puts China on the defensive," p. 16.

  Defense Daily, June 7, 1996, "U.S. To Transfer Tanks, Helicopters To
Bosnia," p. 401.

  The following references are taken from the 6/8 listing off BASIC's
Project on the Arms Trade: Rewriting Canada's Military Export Control
Policies and Procedures, Ernie Regehr, Ploughshares Briefing [#96/2},
Project Ploughshares, Conrad Grebel College, Canada; and "The Arms Trade,
Military Assistance, and Recent Wars: Change and Continuity," Stephanie G.
Neumann, The Annals, American Academy of Political and Social Science,
September 1995.

  Defense News, June 3-9, 1996, "U.S. Offset Initiative Leaves Allies Cold,"
pp. 1, 33; "Israel's Request for 16 AMRAAMS May Change Air Warfare in
Mideast," pp. 3, 32; "Thai Hornet Buy Breaks Pattern: Marks First F/A-18
Sale to Country Operating Rival F-16 Aircraft," p. 4.

  Washington Post, June 11, 1996, "Woolsey, in Testimony, Criticizes White
House: Bosnia-Iran Stance Called Unwise, Not Illegal," p. 20.

  Congressional Record, June 11, 1996, Debate over the Foreign Operations
appropriations bill.  See sections on amendments by Rep. Obey to prohibit
IMET funding for Cambodia and Thailand, pp. H6145-6148; and Rep. Frank to
prohibit IMET funding for Indonesia, pp. H6150-6156.

  Defense News, June 10-16, 1996, "Canadian Fighter Sale Fuels Fear of
African Arms Race." p. 6; "Mideast Nations Near Arms Saturation Point:
Shopping Spree of Early 1990s Puts Strain on Logistics, Training," pp. 8,
20; "Kuwaiti Shifts Focus From Politics to Weapon Quality," p. 8; "Egypt
Woos Gulf States for Industrial Operation," p. 10; "Cash-Strapped Oman
Weights Upgrade to Air, Armor Forces," p. 12; "Egypt Grants Higher Status To
Enhancing Naval Power," p. 12; "Bahrain Puts Air Defense at Top of Upgrade
List," p. 16; and "Jordan To Benefit From U.S. Presence," p. 20.

  Defense News, June 17-23, 1996, "U.S. Readies Long-Awaited Export Loan
Program," pp. 4, 26; and "Sweden May Boost Exports: Eased Rules Would
Broaden Gripen Market Reach," p. 8; and "Pakistan-Ukraine Tank Deal Would
Open Supply Source," p. 8.

Landmines
  Military Technology, Vol. 20, No. 5, 5/96 "Of Mines and Clowns," p. 5.
  Disarmament Diplomacy, May 1996, "Diplomacy After the Negotiation:
Protocol II and the Anti-Personnel Landmine Ban," pp. 9-14.
  Syracuse Herald-Journal, May 11, 1996, "Take stand against killing kids,"
[editorial], p. 5.
  Boston Globe, May 17, 1996, "Ridding the world of land mines," [op-ed], p. 17.
  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, May 20, 1996, "Let U.S. push land-mine ban,"
[editorial] p. 10.
  The Sacramento Bee, May 20, 1996, "Land-Mine Compromise," [editorial] p. B6.
  Navy Times, May 27, 1996, "Clinton reverses his stance; U.S. to keep its
land mines," p. 10.
  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "Mines in Bosnia: a lethal legacy," 
  Defense Daily, "Army Looks To South Africa For Bosnia Countermine Effort,"
p. 341.
  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Hunting Hidden Killers:
Most Promising Mine-Detecting Technologies Now On Fast Track," pp. 18-19.
  Soldiers, June 1996, "Countering Mines: A Coordinated Army effort is
helping reduce the danger of mines in Bosnia," pp. 22-25.
  Air Force Times, June 3, 1996, "Most land mines will stay: Critics say
Clinton's policy is `nothing new' p. 30; and "How useful they remain is
debated," p. 30.
  Army Times, June 3, 1996 , "Clinton: Anti-personnel land mines to stay,"
p. 38; and "The pros and cons of land mines leave the Army divided," p. 38.
  Dallas Morning News, June 3, 1996, "Why won't Clinton ban land mines?," p. 9.
  Minneapolis Star Tribune, June 3, 1996, "Land mines: Missing a chance to
outlaw agony," p. 10.
  Providence Journal-Bulletin, June 3, 1996, "Watch your step, world!," p. B4.
  International Herald Tribune, June 4, 1996, "Revised Agreement Is No
Victory in War Against Land Mines," p. 8.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
	The papers and discussions from CDI's Capitol Hill "Conventional Arms
Transfer Restraint in the 1990s" conference, held November 16, 1994, are now
online. Set your broswer to
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/1/.atdb/.other/.cdiresou/.catr  
	The contents include, but are not limited to:
- Keynote Address by Amb. Ralph Earle, Deputy Director of ACDA
- What the U.S. Gains by Arms Transfer by Joel Johnson of AIA
- What the U.S. Loses by Arms Transfers, by William Hartung of the World
Policy Institute
- Do U.S. Arms Transfers Enhance Economic and Military Security?, by Dr.
Greg Bischak
- Producers vs. Buyers: Who Controls the Trade, by Andrew Pierre of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
- The Code of Conduct and Human Rights Issues, by Ms. Julie McGregor of Sen.
Hatfield's office
- Overview of the Conventional Arms Trade, by Dr. Larry Korb of the
Brookings Institute
- Finding Effective Arms Transfer Restraint Measures, by Dr. Natalie Goldring
- The Role of the UN and Regional Organizations in Restraining Conventional
Arms Transfers, by Dr. Frederick Pearson, Wayne State University
- Identifying Key Elements of a New U.S. Conventional Arms Transfer Policy,
Prof. Aaron Karp, Old Dominion University

	A tip of the hat goes to our taxpayer funded U.S. Defense Security
Assistance Agency. Although we wish they were not doing what they do, i.e.,
implementing arms sales, they have been kind enough to provide us the
computer files from their Foreign Military Sales database. We have finally
been able to decode and reformat the data and have posted it online.  The
following tables are based on the data as it appears in DSAA's "Foreign
Military Sales, Foreign Military Construction Sales, and Military Assistance
Facts" annual publication. We will be posting more tables online, based on
that work, in the future. And, further down the road we will be posting
tables that are formatted in accordance with DSAA's Fiscal Year Series.

- Foreign Military Construction Sales Agreements. 
 At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.2.txt
- Foreign Military Sales Deliveries.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.3.txt
- Foreign Military Construction Sales Deliveries.
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.4.txt
- Commercial Exports Licensed Under Arms Export Control Act 
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.6.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Merger Funds.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.7.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Program--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.10.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Delivered--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.11.txt

CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents
-Amended Protocol II, CCW Conference, May 1, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.amenprot.txt
- Article 11, Technical Cooperation & Assistance, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.art-11.txt
- Article 13, Paragraph 4, Proposal Submitted by Germany, April 22, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propgerm.txt
- Biographies of Selected members of the International Campaign to Ban
Landmines, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.bios.txt
- Campaign Highlights, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.highlite.txt
- China: Moratorium on the Export of AP Mines, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.china.txt
- Closing Statement by the President of the 1st Review Conference on CCW, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.molander.txt
- Compliance Annex, Proposal Submitted by the United States, CCW, 4/23/96,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propus.txt
- Draft Final Report of the Review Conference, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.drfinrep.txt
- FCO [UK] Spokesman: Minister Welcomes Adoption of New Agreement, May 3,
1996,  At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.fcospoke.txt
- List of Participants at the CCW Review Conference, 
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.particip.txt
- Main Committee I: Draft Final Declaration, CCW, May 1, 1996
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.declarat.txt
- Pentagon Memo Attacks Ban on Blinding Lasers, Human Rights Watch Arms
Project, April 21, 1996, 
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.laserban.txt
- Press Advisory: Production Could Resume in Italy, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.prodital.txt
- Press Advisory: UK's Policy Announces Procurement of New Mines, April 24,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.ukgroup.txt

- New Links: 
- Land Mine Awareness Education, At <a href=http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/>http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/</a>
- Northrop Grumman. At <a href=http://www.northgrum.com>http://www.northgrum.com</a>

QUOTE of the DAY!!
"On November 28, 1995, BXA [Commerce Department's Bureau of Export
Administration] published a final rule that expanded foreign policy controls
on specially designed implements of torture. Previously, such implements
were controlled as "crime control and detection" commodities in the same
category of as handcuffs, police helmets and shields. As such, they did not
require a validated license for export to member countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, or New Zealand. This
new rule created a control list entry requiring a validated license for
export of specially designed implements of torture to all destinations,
including Canada. Applications for such exports will continue to be subject
to a general policy of denial."
--Congressional Record, June 4, 1996, p. S5759

.
<hr>2/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-319</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-135</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c3 194.10.201.200 19970108023936 text/html 478
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:38:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 321
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: jpetersson@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3">  Article </a><hr>3/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-320</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-173</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108024015 text/html 1177
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:39:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1019
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: jpetersson@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Report on Swedish arms trade
Date: 20 Jun 1996 14:23:25 +0100 (SVT)

GOVERNMENTAL REPORT ON SWEDISH ARMS TRADE

Every year the Swedish government report it´s armstrade to the 
parliament. A week ago such a report was given.

This report will also in short be translated to english.

If you are intrerested in Swedish arms trade I can send you the english 
version of the report by mail when it´s done.

Send me your adress, preferably to this adress:
svenska.freds@educate.se

Yours sincerely,
Jens Petersson
Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society
.
<hr>3/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-321</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-206</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c4 194.10.201.200 19970108024100 text/html 473
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:40:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 316
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4">  Article </a><hr>4/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-322</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-263</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108024142 text/html 2670
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:41:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2512
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 21 Jun 1996 12:47:56

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Arms Trade Database


								June 21, 1996

Dear Arms Trade Citation List Recipients:

	As you know CDI established and continues to develop an Arms Trade Database
(ATDB) devoted to numerous aspects of the conventional arms trade, such as
data from CRS, ACDA, the UN, and DSAA, info on landmine proliferation, small
arms, developments in industry, and much more.

	Each new list I send out includes references to new material loaded into
the ATDB. I know that some of you, going on the basis of past
conversations--have found this to be quite useful.

	As you may be aware keeping the ATDB going and up to date is both a
time-consuming and expensive endeavor. Much information must be scanned in
which requires the services of a temp worker who struggles to scan in the
huge piles of relevant material. It also requires a significant portion of
my time, as well as that of some of the interns. 

	Mind you, this is not a complaint; just the facts, as Jack Webb, put it.
However, our initial funding for the ATDB is drawing to a close and to keep
it going will require new funding. You can help.

	I am NOT asking for money. I know that you have limited funds and equally
important priorities. But, I would ask for just a couple of minutes of your
time. If you have found the ATDB useful to you please let us know. Your
comments and testimonials will be of great value to us as we go to
foundations and seek new funding. Please take just a few minutes to send us
an e-mail detailing how the ATDB has been of use to you and how you would
like to see it continue. You don't have to go overboard. A simple message
noting that the ATDB is the best invention since sliced bread or the Swiss
Army knife will do.

	Send your e-mail to me. If you are not sending it as a reply to this letter
my e-mail is "disenber@cdi.org". Thanks in advance for your help in this
matter. I look forward to your comments.

.
<hr>4/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-323</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-301</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c5 194.10.201.200 19970108024234 text/html 482
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:41:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 325
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5">  Article </a><hr>5/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-324</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B031-353</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108024322 text/html 1182
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:42:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List
Date: 23 Jun 1996 03:19:24

From: "R.T. Naylor, Economics"  NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA 


Dear David

This note is just to let you know how useful, in fact essential, I 
have found the Citation list for my own work. At the present 
time I am compiling information for a book on the international arms 
black market funded by the John D. and Catherine MacArthur 
Foundation, and I  find the citation list an invaluable source.

Tom Naylor

Prof. R.T. Naylor
Department of Economics
McGill University
Montreal, Quebec
.
<hr>5/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-325</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-12</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c6 194.10.201.200 19970108024401 text/html 729
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:43:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 572
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -

12. Calls on the Commission to report on the situation in East
Timor and on the violation of human rights in Indonesia and to
take all the necessary steps in order to do SO;

13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6">  Article </a><hr>6/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-326</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-74</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108024453 text/html 13721
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:44:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13562
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: 24 Jun 1996 14:02:20

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 1996 13:59:00 +0200


European Parliament urges Member States again to halt arms
trade to Indonesia

Recently the European Parliament adopted a new resolution on
Indonesia and East Timor. This resolution is the result of two
resolutions brought forward on Indonesia and one on East
Timor. Watch Indonesia lobbied for a resolution on the release
of the former parliamentarian Dr. Sri-Bintang Pamungkas and
the condemnation of the unfair trials against him, AMOK-
Maritiem for an arms embargo on behalf of the European Network
Against Arms Trade and finally the increased military
repression was reason for a third resolution. Since 1994 the
European parliament adopted already four resolutions on East
Timor (17-11-94, 20-09-95) and East Timor and Indonesia (14-
12-95 and 19-06-96) in which arms trade was mentioned:

17-11-94:   "5.   Urges the member states to halt all military
                  aid and arms sales to Indonesia (...)

Unofficial translation from Portuguese:
20-09-95:   "4.   Calls on the International Community, in
                  particular the member states to halt all
                  military sales of arms and all military
                  assistance to Indonesia (...)

                  (Apela insistentemente  Comunidade
                  International, e nomendamente aos Estados-
                  membros, para gue cessem todas as vendas de
                  armas e toda a assistncia militar  Indonsi
                  (...))

14-12-95:   "6.   Calls again on the governments of the Member
                  States to cease all military assistance and
                  arms sales to Indonesia (...)

20-06-96    "7.   Reiterates its demand to the Member States of
                  the European Union to halt all military
                  assistance and all arms sales to Indonesia;"

Although the European Network Against Arms Trade asked for an
"arms embargo" to Indonesia this was not adopted by the
European Parliament. But in fact the difference between an
arms embargo and the request for a halt on all military
assistance and arms sales is not very big.

Hopefully this above mentioned clause from the following
resolution will be used to strengthen the opposition in the
member states of the EU against arms trade to Indonesia. 

Martin Broek

The following resolution on the situation in East Timor 
and the violation of human rights in Indonesia 
was adopted by the European Parliament in its Plenary Session 
in Strasbourg 20 June 1996
**************************************************************
*

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT

19 June 1996

                                                   
                                                B4-0764/RC1
                                                B4-0776/RC1
                                                B4-0777/RC1
                                                B4-0782/RC1
                                                B4-0784/RC1
                                                B4-0785/RC1
                                                B4-0800/RC1
                                                B4-0806/RC1
                                                B4-0817/RC1
                                                B4-0819/RC1
                                                B4-0825/RC1
                                                B4-0831/RC1


JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION (Rule 47)

by Barros Moura and d4Ancona, on behalf of the PSE Group
   Lucas Pires, Moorhouse and Dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of    
   the PPE Group 
   Vieira, Girao Pereira, Pasty and Baldi, 
   on behalf of the UPE Group Capucho, Pimenta, Cunha and      
   Porto,on behalf of the ELDR Group 
   Ribeiro, Vinci, Gutierrez Dias, Svensson, Elmalan and 
   Mohamad Ali, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group
   Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group
   Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of the ARE Group

to replace the motions for resolutions by:

- D'Ancona and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0764/96)
- de Melo and Cunha, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0776/96)
- Pimenta, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0777/96)
- Marinho and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0782/96)
- Vieira and others, on behalf of the UPE Group (B4-0784/96)
- Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of 
  the ARE Group (B4-0785/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0800/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0806/96)
- Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group             
  (B4-0817/96)
- McKenna, on behalf of the V Group (B4-0819/96)
- Moorhouse, on behalf of the PPE Group (B4-0825/96)
- Lucas Pires and others, on behalf of the PPE                 
  Group(B4-0831/96)

on the Situation in East Timor and the violation of human
rights in Indonesia

DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                        PE 250.944/RC1
                                            PE 250.957/RC1
                                            PE 250.958/RC1
                                            PE 250.963/RC1
                                            PE 250.965/RC1
                                            PE 250.966/RC1
                                            PE 250.981/RC1
                                            PE 250.987/RC1
                                            PE 250.998/RC1
                                            PE 251.000/RC1
                                            PE 251.006/RC1
                                            PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa    
         


                              - page 1 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT,

A. having regard to the illegal occupation of East Timor by 
Indonesia,

B. whereas Indonesian military repression against the
population of East Timor is continuing and has been stepped up
over recent days, particularly against young people,

C. deeply concerned at the incidents which occured in Baucau
between 9 and 11 June in the wake of the profanation of a
Catholic religious image, involving  protests by several
hundred young Timorese which where repressed by the 
Indonesian security forces, with at least two of the young
demonstrators being  killed, large numbers wounded and several
dozen being arrested, 

D. whereas the Indonesian government continues to ignore all
calls from the international community urging it to respect
human rights and the right of self-determination of the people
of East Timor, 

E. having regard to the developments following the approach
made by the Portuguese Prime Minister to the President of
Indonesia during the Euro-Asian  summit in Bangkok, 

F. having regard to the forthcoming meeting between the
Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers to be organized by
the UN Secretary-General, 

G. having regard to the fatal shooting of 25 year old Imanuel
Suares from East Timor on 7 June by the police in Jakarta,

H. whereas hundreds of political prisoners are still being
detained in Indonesia and in East Timor,

I. whereas the tension in Indonesia has been increasing, as
demonstrated by the incidents which have occured in Irian Jaya
(Western Papua), where young people clashed with soldiers, and
by the army4s brutal invasion of the university campus in
Ujung Pandang in order to stop a student demonstration
(protesting against a 150% increase in bus fares) which
resulted in the death of six young people,

J. whereas the Indonesian authorities accused the former
member of parliament Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas of being the
instigator of demonstrations in Germany,


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                    PE 250.944/RC1
                                        PE 250.957/RC1
                                        PE 250.958/RC1
                                        PE 250.963/RC1
                                        PE 250.965/RC1
                                        PE 250.966/RC1
                                        PE 250.981/RC1
                                        PE 250.987/RC1
                                        PE 250.998/RC1
                                        PE 251.000/RC1
                                        PE 251.006/RC1
                                        PE 251.012/RC1
                                                 Or.pa


                              - page 2 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

K. whereas this accusation was subsequently replaced by
another alleging that Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas had insulted
the President of the Republic of Indonesia during a lecture he
gave at the Technical University of Berlin on 9 April 1995,
which led to his being sentenced to 34 months4 imprisonment on
8 May 1996,

L. having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation
in East Timor and the violation of human rights in Indonesia,

1. Condemns once more the Indonesian military repression of
the people of East Timor and expresses its solidarity with the
victims and their families;

2. Deplores the provocative acts perpetrated by the
Indonesians against freedom of religion;

3. Reaffirms its solidarity with the people of East Timor in
their fight for self-determination, and its condemnation of
the illegal occupation of East Timor;

4. Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners,
including Mr Xanana Gusmao;

5. Reaffirms its support for the UN-sponsored negotiations now
under way aimed at resolving the problems of the basis of
respect for human rights and the right to self-determination;

6. Calls on the Indonesian government to respond to the
initiative of the Portuguese government;

7. Reiterates its demand to the Member States of the European
Union to halt all military assistance and all arms sales to
Indonesia;

8. Recalls its resolution of 1991 to send a delegation on a
fact-finding mission to East Timor and insists that the
Indonesian authorities should refrain from trying to prevent
this visit;

9. Demands that the Indonesian authorities drop the charge
against Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas, withdraw the sentence and
rehabilitate him;

10. Calls on the Indonesian government to guarantee the
exercise of free and fair trials in the future;


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                       PE 250.944/RC1
                                           PE 250.957/RC1
                                           PE 250.958/RC1
                                           PE 250.963/RC1
                                           PE 250.965/RC1
                                           PE 250.966/RC1
                                           PE 250.981/RC1
                                           PE 250.987/RC1
                                           PE 250.998/RC1
                                           PE 251.000/RC1
                                           PE 251.006/RC1
                                           PE 251.012/RC1
                                                    Or.pa


                         - page 3 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

11. Urges the Indonesian authorities to stop violating the
rights of peaceful critics and activists and to guarantee all
individuals, including independent journalists, their rights
to freedom of speech and association as expressed in
international declarations on human rights and in the
Indonesian Constitution;

12. Calls on the Commission to report on the situation in East
Timor and on the violation of human rights in Indonesia and to
take all the necessary steps in order to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>;

13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the
Council, the Commission, the parliaments of the Member States,
the Indonesian Government, the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.








DOC_EN\RE\302916                             PE 250.944/RC1
                                             PE 250.957/RC1
                                             PE 250.958/RC1
                                             PE 250.963/RC1
                                             PE 250.965/RC1
                                             PE 250.966/RC1
                                             PE 250.981/RC1
                                             PE 250.987/RC1
                                             PE 250.998/RC1
                                             PE 251.000/RC1
                                             PE 251.006/RC1
                                             PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa


                         - page 4 -

-------------------------------------------------------------



  
--- pgp key on request ---

.
<hr>6/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-327</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-111</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c7 194.10.201.200 19970108024532 text/html 483
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:44:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 326
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7">  Article </a><hr>7/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-328</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-161</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108024615 text/html 1936
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:45:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1778
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Indonesian Airshow
Date: 28 Jun 1996 14:36:05

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)

To late to act on but maybe informative for some.

The Indonesian Air show '69 and eurosatory '96: Tow shows and
the countries that host them come of age
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996, page 1
Editorial

On IAS of last weekend: (...) IPTN's CN-235 will be there. The
maritime patrol version combines the best of Indonesian
airframe technology with an advanced combat information system
designed by Boeing's ARGOSystems.
Russian Design Bureau Rubin will also be present with their
famed Projects 636 and Kilo [submarines] designs. These boats
are already a major success in Indian and Chinese service.
Should Rubin have success in Indonesia, Asia will find another
"black hole" lurking beneath the waves.
Alcatel SEL AG will be there. Alcatel is a leader in the
production if frequency hopping radio's. (...)
Bofors AB will be there with its fine range of guns.
Singapore Technologies will be present with systems range from
artillery to armoured vehicle and aircraft upgrades.
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd. will arrive to show its range of trainer
and border surveillance aircraft.
Leica, Oerlikon Contraves AG, Bae, Rosvoorouzhenie, Rostvertol
and other fine companies too numerous to mention will also be
there.


.
<hr>7/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-329</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-220</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c8 194.10.201.200 19970108024700 text/html 1217
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:46:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1059
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
Indeed, the defence white paper makes explicit the need for
naval expansion with the section on the navy's development
stating that "material developments calls for the acquisition
of ships SO that by the end of the Sixth Five-year Plan it
will have 127 ships." [Currently, the navy's total strength
(all categories including support, is 94 ships, although this
- - - -
widening gap between rich and poor; ABRI believes (at least in
public), are elements associated with the banned Indonesian
Communist Party (the PKI). These are now thought to be
operating as 'new style' communists, or, SO-CALLED 'formless
organisations.' In actuality, however, it may be that the
threat to stability lies with the re-emergence of another
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8">  Article </a><hr>8/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-330</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-265</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108024747 text/html 14156
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:47:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13997
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Arms acquisitions in Indonesia
Date: 28 Jun 1996 15:12:45

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)


The following article comes from the Asian Defence Journal,
because it outlines the major arms procurement programs in
Indonesia I gave most of the text. The first two pages
are not inluded they are about the strategic situation in the
region and the external threat. This emphasis is also seen in
the second part of the article on the harware of ABRI it looks
like all arms are used to defende the country, but of course
readers of this conference know arms are being used in what is
described in the third part of the article the internal
threat. Although the writer uses the vocabulary of the regime
in power the second part makes it problably worth for those
opposing arms trade to the country to read it.


Defending Indonesia: An Update
By Mark G. Rolls
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996

(...)
"Certainly the issue of appropriate deployment of ABRI forces
(especially air force units) is exercising the minds of
Indonesian defence planners at the moment. In April, it was
disclosed that Armed Forces Chief, Gen Feisal Tanjung, has
been instructed to review the existing deployment of forces
with particular attention being given to the need to ensure
the adequate defence of 'strategic projects' such as the
Natuna islands, and of economic growth centres where Indonesia
is cooperating in sub-regional economic cooperation with its
ASEAN neighbours. There may also be a public relations aspect
to such a move, in sense of seeking to reassure investors
about the security of such areas. Following a large joint
exercise by the navy and air force near the Natunas in
December (which included four F-16's, a B737-200 MR plane,
seven warships and a submarine), the commander in charge of
the navy's western fleet, Rear admiral Widodo, was reported as
saying that investors "should not worry about security when
investing in this area.The air force has undoubtedly
considered the need to deploy its assets accordingly as part
of its ongoing development and procurement programme. This
programme is aimed at the strengthening of Indonesian air
defences through the development of a three-tiered AD-system
(radar; anti-aircraft artillery and missiles; and fighter
aircraft) in the crucial strategic locations around north
Sumatra and South Java.
The recent emphasis in this system is on the acquisition of
more fighter aircraft (both 'Hawks' and F-16's), partly to
replace ageing aircraft as well as, perhaps, attempt to re-
establish the regional air superiority which Indonesia enjoyed
in the 1960's.
In 1993, Indonesia ordered 24 British Aerospace (Bae) 'Hawks'
(14 Hawk-100 trainers and 10 Hawk-200 fighter variants), the
first three of which have now been delivered with the reminder
to follow over the next two years. Indonesia is now
negotiating the purchase of an additional 16 hawks (most
likely to be all 200's, bringing the total to 40 aircraft. The
deployment plan for the first 24 aircraft is that they will be
stationed at Pekanbaru, east Sumatra, replacing ageing A-4
'Skyhawks', in order to augment air defences in an arc from
north Sumatra to Central Java (possibly including the
Natunas). The additional 16 Hawk 200s will be deployed to
Pontianak, west Kalimantan, almost certainly to facilitate the
conduct of additional tactical air patrols over the Natuna
islands; Pontianak being only some 400km south of the main
Natuna island.
It had initially been thought that the procurement of the 16
additional Hawks would preclude the purchase of some of the
Pakistani F-16's currently in store in the US on the grounds
of cost. This was despite the US offering some of them for
sale to indonesia and Indonesia having a long-standing desire
to possess a full squadron of F-16's (currently it has 11 F-16
A/Bs). Doubts about the possibility of a purchase also
resolved around whether or not Indonesia would accept the
Pakistani F-16 A/B's on offer (perhaps preferring a more
advanced variant), and about the ongoing friction in
Indonesia's military relationship with America [on the passage
of warships through the archipelago, MB] which had seen
Indonesia make a deliberate effort to look elsewhere for arms.
It now appears, however, subject to the satisfactory outcome
of ongoing discussions over legal issues and offset
arrangements, that Indonesia will opt for 9 of the 28 F-16
A/B's available. Indonesia, it seems, especially given its
desire to augment its existing F-16's, has undoubtedly
persuaded by the very favourable terms on offer. Moreover, it
fits in with a traditional Indonesian procurement pattern,
which has sought to maximise its equipment holdings, whilst
minimising the cost out-lay on expensive state-of-the -art
technology, by opting for less advanced (often second-hand)
equipment.
The package of 9 Pakistani F-16 A/B's is reported to cost only
US$ 162 million and Indonesia is seeking to effectively reduce
the outlay of hard currency through an offset package which
could account for some 30% of the total. Significantly, the
offset package could see Indonesia persuading the US to
purchase aircraft components made by the state-run IPTN. The
role of Bae in securing a European airworthiness certificate
for IPTN's CN-235 utility aircraft has been cited as one of
the reasons for its success in selling Hawks. It may be the
case that by getting the US to procure IPTN-produced aircraft
components, Indonesia (and especially its Minister for
Research and Technology, B.J. Habibie) is preparing the ground
for future sales of his aircraft in the American market;
possibly the medium-range jet airliner which IPTN is
developing.
Facilitating the prospective F-16 deal has been a general
improvement in the climate of military relations between
Indonesia and the US. (...) [IMET see reports of Charles
Scheiner, MB]
If air force modernisation and expansion has been seen as
important, then that of the navy, especially given the
increasing territorial waters, must be seen as crucial.
Indeed, the defence white paper makes explicit the need for
naval expansion with the section on the navy's development
stating that "material developments calls for the acquisition
of ships <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> that by the end of the Sixth Five-year Plan it
will have 127 ships." [Currently, the navy's total strength
(all categories including support, is 94 ships, although this
does not include all the East German vessels many of which are
not yet operational. The Military Balance 1995-116]. Given the
prevalence of low intensity threats noted earlier, the
emphasis in expansion is to be on "more patrol boats for
operation in shallow and narrow waters." 
The ongoing process of expansion, though, is somewhat
problematic in practice, centring as it does, on the 1993
purchase of 39 ex-Est German ships (including corvettes, LST's
and minehunters. Although broadly in line with naval
procurement requirements, it is notable that their acquisition
was influenced by B.J Habibie's attempt to link their purchase
with his ambitious plans for the development of Indonesia's
shipbuilding and repair facilities revolving around state-run
PT Pal.
The costs of the attendant support facilities (especially
given Ministry of Defence opposition to the purchase) has been
deemed prohibitive by the Finance Ministry, which has limited
the amount it is prepared to finance the vessels purchase and
refurbishment to $319 million. The wrangling over the
allocation of funds for refurbishment, and the limited amounts
proposed, has undoubtedly delayed the actual refurbishment of
many of these ships meaning that few are yet operational and,
even then, they will have limited capabilities. It is
arguable, however, that the acquisition of the East German
ships should be seen in the context of Indonesia's traditional
procurement pattern and, in fact, they may only be designed to
provide a transitional capability.
Future expansion plans, therefor, should be seen more in terms
of the construction by PT Pal of four more PB-57 patrol craft
[license of Lrssen Germany, MB], due to be delivered in 1997.
It is feasible tat the demand for more patrol craft to fulfil
a long-term requirement may be met by domestic production of
more such vessels. This may be part of a process by which
Indonesia seeks to develop its indigenous defence industries
("Defence industries are planned to attain the capability of
supplying and maintaining most of the Indonesian Armed Forces'
materiel needs."); a process which has been somewhat stop-
start over the past decade despite similar statements
previously. PT Pal has been trying to develop its expertise in
naval shipbuilding over the past few years through, e.g.,
collaborating with British shipbuilder Swan Hunter on the
refit of an ex-Royal Navy 'Rover' small class fleet tanker
('Arun'), which included a technology transfer component.
Ambitious plans for a 20 (or 30) indigenous frigate-building
programme are on hold, due to financial constraints, is the
Indonesian plan to double its submarine fleet (currently
consisting of two German T-209's) to four, which has been
deemed a 'minimum' requirement.
Whilst there have been limitations on the funding of the
purchase and refurbishment of the east German ships, a new
naval base at Telex Ratai, southern Sumatra, is being
developed to support their operation. Certainly, the
development of new naval bases is regarded as an important
component of Indonesia territorial waters by facilitating the
expansion of the navy's coverage of them. Two new bases at
Sibolga west Sumatra, and the Aru Islands are being developed,
and there are also plans to construct a naval port on the
Natuna islands ready for the commencement of the
aforementioned gas project.
Lastly, in terms of service modernisation (and it is
'modernisation' of existing capabilities rather tan
'expansion') the army is to acquire new equipment to improve
its armoured capabilities. It was confirmed in March last year
that Indonesia was to purchase 50 Alvis 'Scorpions'. Of these,
30 were expected to be Scorpion 90 light tanks with a 90mm
cannon [from Belgium; Cockerill, MB]; 2 were to be the command
version of the 'Stormer' variant; and the remainder a mix of
ambulance and transport versions of the Stormer. The first
deliveries (reportedly 26 Scorpions and 2 Stormer command
versions) began in October. The Scorpions are due to replace
some of the ageing Dutch AMX-13's which Indonesia acquired in
the 1970's. In addition, Indonesia is also upgrading limited
numbers of its existing 'Ferret', 'Saladin' and 'Saracen'
APC's to extend further their already long service lives.

(...)

The defence and security budget for 1996/97 remains at 1.5% of
GDP although the figure of US$ 3,32 billion is a 19% increase
over the one last year. This represents a significant
increase, but it is still less tan the 25% increase which the
Ministry of Defence had requested, partially to fund arms
purchases.

(...)

Though Indonesia has been very successful in pursuing policies
which have lowered poverty levels, given the background of
sustained economic growth , it appears that the ongoing
process of socio-economic change has led t problems which
challenge the preservation of internal stability. notable in
this respect is one of the unintended consequences of
sustained economic growth which has been increasing
disparities in income and wealth. Such disparities combined
with apparent frustration over the rather halting process of
political development has led to increased social unrest over
the past few years. This has been evinced most recently in a
series of student demonstrations in several Javanese cities
and the capital of Sulawesi, Ujung Pandang.
Fomenting some of the social unrest, by exploiting the
widening gap between rich and poor; ABRI believes (at least in
public), are elements associated with the banned Indonesian
Communist Party (the PKI). These are now thought to be
operating as 'new style' communists, or, <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a>-called 'formless
organisations.' In actuality, however, it may be that the
threat to stability lies with the re-emergence of another
traditional ABRI concern, islamic extremists. Last year, it
had been reported, the military arrested over 400 supporters
of the concept of 'Negara Islam Indonesia,' which calls for an
Islamic state.
Whatever the case, ABRI remains acutely concerned about the
threat which social unrest poses to Indonesia's security and
stability; a concern which is inextricable linked to ABRI's
historic 'dwifungsi' (dual-function) doctrine. (...)
The main threat to Indonesia's unity has been identified as
lying in the separatist movements which are ongoing in Irian
Jaya and East Timor. The fear is that these movements
continued existence could provide an example for other
disaffected groups. The 'military' threat posed by the OPM and
Fretilin remains low-key and manageable despite a recent
upsurge in insurgent activity. (...) Separatism however,
remains a very intractable problems which is likely to remain
a threat to Indonesia's archipelago-wide political stability
for the foreseeable future.
For ABRI ten, 'dwifungsi', whatever its merits in the
Indonesian context, inevitably means a divided focus. Given
the continued challenges to internal stability, at a time of
potential significance, it will be a demanding task for ABRI
to fully develop its external capabilities whilst it also
keeps watch on the home front.






.
<hr>8/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-331</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B032-304</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c9 194.10.201.200 19970108024826 text/html 474
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:47:50 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 317
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ggs2@columbia.edu
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9">  Article </a><hr>9/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-332</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-11</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108024907 text/html 1528
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:48:28 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1370
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ggs2@columbia.edu
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 29 Jun 1996 11:29:55

From: Gary G Sick  ggs2@columbia.edu 
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar

Dear David,

As you know, I operate an electronic library for specialists on Persian
Gulf economics, politics, and security. I have come to rely on the CDI
Arms Trade Data Base as the most reliable and comprehensive check of my
own research on new publications and data on arms transfers to the Middle
East. 

As a fellow practitioner, I understand how much time and effort goes into
the creation (and timely publication) of such information. I also
appreciate as a consumer the value of receiving this information in a
relaible and usable format, instead of being required to search for it on
the Internet and elsewhere.

Keep up the good work!

Gary Sick
Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University
Executive Director, The Gulf/2000 Project

.
<hr>9/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-333</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-49</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c10 194.10.201.200 19970108024946 text/html 475
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:49:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 318
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10">  Article </a><hr>10/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-334</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-108</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=10 194.10.201.200 19970108025037 text/html 16136
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:49:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15977
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 53
Date: 28 Jun 1996 13:52:57

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 53
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 28, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Small Arms Management and Peacekeeping in Southern Africa, United Nations
Institute for Disarmament Research, Disarmament and Conflict Resolution
Project, UNIDIR/96/21, 114pp.

  AIA [Aerospace Industries Association] Update, June 1996, "U.S. Pursues
International Discussion on Offsets," pp. 1, 4.

  Jane's Defence Contracts, USA and Norway join on missile accord, p. ; and
[US] Missile activity from Portugal to Taiwan," p. 5.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 5 June 1996, "Germany plans to ease defence
exports," p. 8; "Philippines to make fighter decision soon,"p. 11; and
"Seoul '96 [aerospace exhibition] joins show scene," p. 11.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 12 June 1996, "First European showing for Russian
systems," p. 4.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 19 June 1996, "Surplus US fighters swell Israel's
air fleet," pp. 59, 61, 63-64, and 67.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 20, 1996, "Flying Into Flak: Controversy
mires major arms deals in Pakistan," pp. 15-16.

  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Jordan F-16s Will Counter Iraqi, Syrian
Threat, Pentagon Says," p. 5; and "`Russia Competing Aggressively For
Africa's Market'", pp. 12, 13.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, June 24, 1996, "U.S. Contractors Commit
Early to Paris Air Show," p. 31.

  Washington Post, June 24, 1996, "Arms Trade Menaces U.S. Security, Panel
Says: Clinton-Appointed Group Urges Restraint in Selling Conventional
Weapons to Other Countries," p. A9.

  Aerospace Daily, June 25, 1996, "Lockheed Martin F-16 team visits Poland,"
p. 493.

  Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy, by
Dr. Janne E. Nolan, Chair, Edward Randolph Jane II, Ronald F. Lehman, David
E. McGiffert, Paul C. Warnke, Publicly released June 25, 31pp. (Available in
its entirety in the Arms Trade Database; see below ATDB listings ) Also
released as a companion study was RAND monograph Arms Proliferation Policy:
Support to the Presidential Advisory Board by Marcy Agmon, James L. Bonomo,
Michael Kennedy, Maren Leed, Kenneth Watman, Katharine Webb and Charles
Wolf, Jr., (MR-771-OSD), 132pp. (Abstract available in database; see below)

  Defense News, June 24-30, 1996, "Panel: Security, Not Economy
 Should Drive U.S. Arms Sales," pp. 1, 76; "U.S. Readies Stinger Missile
Package for Taiwan," p. 3; "Europeans To Gain Ground in East Asian Arms
Market: Export Restrictions, Policies Hamper U.S. Growth in Region," p. 36;
"Export Variants Give U.S. Options," [op-ed] p. 45; "Yeltsin's Moves May
Calm U.S. About Arms Trade With Iran," p. 54; "Rising Costs May Scuttle
Pakistani Mirage Purchase," p. 58

Landmines
  International Security Digest, Vol. 3, No. 7, May 1996, "Convention on
Conventional Weapons Ends With Limited Results - Other Avenues Must be
Sought to Ban Landmines." 
  The Military Utility of Landmines.......?, Edited by Dr. Chris Smith,
North-South Defence and Security Programme, Centre for Defence Studies,
King's College, University of London, June 1996, 104pp. Contents include:
Background and Context, History of Antipersonnel Mines; Current Trends in
Landmine Technology; Landmines and the Czech Republic, Landmines and
Finland; Landmines and Sweden; Landmines and Germany; Landmines and the
United Kingdom; Do Landmines Have a Military Utility?; and Alternatives to APM.
  Jane's Defence Contracts, "UK Barmine to receive short-term face-lift," p. 4; 
  Congressional Record, June 19, 1996, "House Provision on Antipersonnel
Landmines," pp. S6483-S6484.
  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Full Slate of Counter-Mine Tools Due in
Bosnia By Fall," p. 3; and "Airborne Mine-hunter Could Fly Over Bosnia by
September," pp. 3, 5.
  The Nation, July 1, 1996, "Clinton's Minefield," pp. 5-6

 New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
  The bibliographies for Bahrain, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi
Arabia have been updated.
  (Just Came Out! Be the first on your block to download this.)
- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy. At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.presadvi.txt
- Arms Proliferation Policy: Support to the Presidential Advisory Board.
(Abstract) At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.rand.txt
  CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents (Continued from last list)
- Press Release: United Kingdom Pledges Active Support For A Global Ban on
Anti-Personnel Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.uksuppor.txt
- Proposed Changes to Article 14 of the President's Text, United Kingdom,
CCW, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propuk.txt
- Protocol II: President's Papers and Technical Annex: Article 2:
Definitions, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.proto2.txt
- Report of Main Committee I, CCW, May 1, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.maincom1.txt
- Report of the Credentials Committee, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.credenti.txt
- Statement by African Landmine Victim, CCW, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moon.txt
- Statement by Bosnian Landmine Victim, CCW, April 25, 1996, At 
 gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.pero.txt
 - Statement by Cambodian Landmine Victim, May 3, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.channare.txt
- Statement by Handicap International, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker.txt
- Statement by Trade Unionists of Valsella Factory, Italy, April 24, 1996,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.tradital.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Japan, Head of Japanese Delegation, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.kurokoch.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Norway, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.skogmo.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.shazukan.txt
- Statement by the Delegation of Canada, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moher.txt
- Statement by the Deputy Leader of the Delegation of India, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sood.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker3.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker2.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Belgian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.guillaun.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Brazilian Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.filho.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Irish Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.anderson.txt
- Statement by the President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.icrcstat.txt
- Statement by the Program Director, Human Rights Arms Project, January 19,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goose.txt
- Statement by the Representative of Italy on behalf of the European Union,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.italy.txt
- Statement by the Vice-President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.roethlis.txt
- Statement by Jody Williams, Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.williams.txt
- Statement by the U.N. Department of Humanitarian Affairs to the review
conference of the States Parties of the Convention on CCW, April 22, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.humanita.txt
- Sweden's Landmine Defense, from Swedish Save the Children, March 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sweden.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Belgium, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techbelg.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Canada, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techcana.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by France, CCW, April 24, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techfran.txt
- The Good News/The Bad News, Prepared by Human Rights Watch Arms Project,
April 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.good%26bad.txt
- The New Protocol--Not A Step Out of the Minefield, International Campaign
to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.notastep.txt
- Chap. 17 of SIPRI Yearbook 1996, "The Review Conference of the Inhumane
Weapons Convention," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goldblat.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Review Conference on the CCW, April 16,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.confresu.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen2.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen.txt
- We Are Outraged, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, May 1, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.outraged.txt

  Quotes of the Day
	"The extent of human rights abuses associated with armed conflict, as well
as the  increasingly sophisticated technological environment, means that
Amnesty International has to intensify its work to address the conduct of
security forces, and their international partners. When transfers of
equipment, technology, or training can reasonably be assumed to contribute
to human rights abuses, Amnesty International Campaigns against them.
	...Legislation and regulations should be established at national and
international level. These should prohibit any transfer of military,
security or police equipment, technology, training or personnel -- as well
as financial and logistical support for such transfers -- unless it can be
reasonably demonstrated that such transfers will not contribute to grave
human rights violations. These laws and regulations should ensure that the
human rights situation in the receiving country is taken into consideration
before any decision to approve a transfer. The supplier government should
take responsibility for the use of transfers through regular monitoring and
legally binding "end-user certificates" citing human rights criteria. All
information necessary to allow the country's legislative assembly to
exercise proper control over the implementation of the law should be
supplied and all transfers should be publicly disclosed in advance."
		-- Amnesty International Report 1996, pp. 17-18

	Blowback
	"All through 1985, we poured weapons into Afghanistan--heavy machine guns,
SA-7s, and the Oerlikon antiaircraft cannons, all of which began to produce
increasing aircraft losses for the Soviets. In addition to large increases
in weapons, we improved the logistics base and our ability to bring the
weapons, ammunition, food, and clothing to those inside Afghanistan--laying
the basis for the extraordinary Mujahedin success in 1986 and 1987. (This
included importing thousands of Chinese mules in Afghanistan to transport
weapons. We could not find enough suitable U.S. mules to meet our needs.)
Funds for 1986 were increased by more than $125 million over 1985, to be
used to buy many more weapons of all kinds.
	It was during this period that we began to learn of a significant increase
in the number of Arab nationals from other countries who had traveled to
Afghanistan to fight in the Holy War against the Soviets. They came from
Syria, Iraq, Algeria, and elsewhere, and most fought with the Islamic
fundamentalist Muj groups, particularly that headed by Abdul Rasul Sayyaf.
We examined ways to increase their participation, perhaps in the form of
some sort of "international brigade," but nothing came of it. Years later,
these fundamentalist fighters trained by the Mujahedin in Afghanistan would
begin to show up around the world, from the Middle East to New York City,
still fighting their Holy War--only now including the United States among
their enemies. Our mission was to push the Soviets out of Afghanistan. We
expected post-Soviet Afghanistan to be ugly, but never considered that it
would become a haven for terrorists operating worldwide."
From the Shadows: The Ultimate Insider's Story of Five Presidents and How
They Won The Cold War, Robert M. Gates (Former Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency) p. 349.

	Are you listening, Joel Johnson?
	"The Board finds that U.S. arms transfer policy can and should be developed
and executed separately from issues of maintenance of the defense industrial
base, which we believe are better handled by specific DoD industrial base
policy. We do not believe that arms sales that would be rejected on the
basis of foreign policy and national security considerations should be
approved simply to preserve jobs or keep a production line open. The Board
believes it is essential that the U.S. government takes steps to make this
policy clear at home and abroad."  (Pp. 15-16)
	AND
	"The Board rejects any notion that stepping back from well-conceived arms
restraint policies is the way to ensure the health of our defense industrial
base. The radical restructuring and adjustment to much smaller markets in
the world's defense industries will, as the RAND and other studies document,
continue in the foreseeable future. The export market is much too small to
offset the overall decline in defense procurement. Hence, the existence of
export sales opportunities for U.S. firms, while obviously valuable inn
preserving jobs and production lines in many cases, will not be sufficient
to allow the affected companies to forgo the downsizing required for their
survival." 
-- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy

.
<hr>10/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-335</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-154</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c11 194.10.201.200 19970108025125 text/html 498
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:50:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 341
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
From: M.Oosterman@inter.nl.net (Marja Oosterman)
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11">  Article </a><hr>11/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-336</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-201</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=11 194.10.201.200 19970108025209 text/html 1362
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:51:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1204
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
From: M.Oosterman@inter.nl.net (Marja Oosterman)
Subject: VOTE FOR PEACE
Date: Thu, 30 May 1996 23:57:52 GMT

29 juni zijn er presidentsverkiezingen op IJsland. 
Deze verkiezingen worden aangegrepen voor een grootse aktie op
Internet: VOTE FOR PEACE.

IJslanders geven als hun hele geschiedenis het goede voorbeeld: sinds
de ontdekking van IJsland in 974 heeft dit land nog nimmer een leger
gehad.

De aktie wordt op internet gevoerd:

<a href=http://www.icemall.com/peace.html.>http://www.icemall.com/peace.html.</a>

De organisatoren van deze aktie hopen dat  vele stemmen voor vrede
deze pagina tot de grootste ter wereld zal maken.

VOTE FOR PEACE.

Een droom is een droom. Als vele mensen dezelfde droom hebben wordt de
droom werkelijkheid (vrij naar Yoko Ono)



.
<hr>11/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-337</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B033-247</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c12 194.10.201.200 19970108025249 text/html 482
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:52:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 325
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=12">  Article </a><hr>12/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-338</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-1</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=12 194.10.201.200 19970108025337 text/html 5685
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:52:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5527
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Internationaal Gerechtshof onder druk.
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 12:30:08 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Wed, 29 May 1996 23:12:32 +0200
Subject:   Het ICJ staat onder druk 

Het Internationaal Gerechtshof staat onder druk.

In december 1994, heeft de Algemene Vergadering van de UN 
(UNGA), ondanks de weerstand van de NATO Kernwapen Staten een 
resolutie aanvaard waarin het Internationaal Gerechtshof (ICJ) 
dringend gevraagd werd een uitspraak te doen over de vraag: "Is 
het dreigen met -- of gebruik van Kernwapens in elke situatie 
toegestaan onder internationaal recht?" 
Tijdens de publieke hoorzittingen afgelopen november hebben 16 
Anti-Kernwapen Staten nog meer druk van de USA, de UK en 
Frankrijk weerstaan en hebben goed onderbouwde argumenten voor 
het illegaal zijn van Kernwapens naar voren gebracht.  
China is niet verschenen en de overige Kernwapen Staten konden 
alleen Duitsland en Italie overhalen om in hun voordeel te 
getuigen.  

Het World Court Project (WCP) wacht samen met andere 
Vredesgroepen, en ook Milieugroepen op de beslissing van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof over bovenstaande vraag. Het is 
misschien wel de belangrijkste zaak, waarover het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof in haar bestaan, een uitspraak zal doen.  Een 
uitspraak, die nu toch wel verwacht zou mogen worden. Eerst werd 
deze uitspraak verwacht in Maart, daarna in Mei en nou zijn er 
aanwijzingen dat het wel eind Juni kan worden; net voor de 
sluiting van het hof, vanwege haar zomerreces.  
 
Een legitieme reden hiervoor is dat het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zeer zeker erg hard aan het werk is aan de Bosnie-
Joegoslavie-zaak.  Maar er blijken ook andere reden te bestaan 
die ons (Groepen binnen het Abolition 2000 netwerk, waaronder 
WCP en GANA) grote zorgen baren.  

1. Op een conferentie in Edinburgh van de International Law 
Association hebben we op 10 mei van Sir Robert Jennings (oud 
president van het Internationaal Gerechtshof te Den Haag) te 
horen gekregen dat het Internationaal Gerechtshof in financiele 
moeilijkheden is. Hij waarschuwde dat het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof gesloten werd.  Hij gaf aan dat het complete 
secretariaat van het Internationaal Gerechtshof naar huis 
gestuurd is; en het aantal vertalers (toch al onderbemand) nog 
verder is teruggebracht.  Hij vroeg iedereen zijn invloed aan te 
wenden om het hof te beschermen, speciaal op het moment dat het 
hof bezig is een beslissing te nemen over haar kostbare creatie. 
(voetnoot 1) 

Als deze uitspraak van Sir Robert Jennings in verband gebracht 
wordt met het feit dat de USA haar geweldige schuld aan het UN 
budget, waarvan het budget voor het Internationaal Gerechtshof 
slechts een klein deel van uitmaakt, nog steeds niet heeft 
betaald, dan is dat op zijn minst opmerkelijk.  (voetnoot 2) 

Sindsdien hebben we gehoord dat de Persofficier van het 
Internationaal gerechtshof plotseling met pensioen is gestuurd 
en niet zal worden vervangen.  

De ideale uitkomst voor de NATO kernwapen staten zou zijn dat 
het Internationaal Gerechtshof geen uitspraak kan doen vanwege 
het gebrek aan secretariele ondersteuning en vanwege ruzies 
tussen sommige ge-intimideerde rechters. Het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zou de zaak laten vallen, waarop de zaak behandeld 
zou worden afgedaan als irrelevant voor de Wereld.  Vooral de 
Britse en de Franse regeringen, in het bijzonder, vrezen dat, 
met een bevestiging van het Internationaal Gerechtshof dat het 
dreigen met -- en het gebruik van Kernwapens illegaal is, hun 
permanente zetels in de UN veiligheids- raad (UN Security 
Council) in gevaar zouden komen, omdat ze geloven dat ze die 
zetels alleen vanwege hun Kernwapen arsenaal bezitten.  Maar de 
rechters hebben echter hun reputatie hoog te houden.... en het 
zou duidelijk aantonen dat ze gemanipuleerd werden.  

2. Het is ook goed mogelijk dat het reusachtig belang van deze 
zaak de rechters parten speelt. Ze zijn er zeer zeker van 
doordrongen dat het toekomstige belang van het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof zal worden be-invloed door hun uitspraak. Er wordt 
zelfs verteld dat ze onder druk zouden staan hun uitspaak uit te 
stellen tot na de ondertekening van de Comprehensive Test Ban 
Treaty, vanwege het eventuele negatieve effect dat hun uitspraak 
zou kunnen hebben op deze onderhandelingen.  

Voetnoten:
(1)  De kostbare creatie waar Sir Robert Jennings het over 
heeft, is de adviserende uitspaak van het Internationaal 
Gerechtshof of het dreigen met -- en het gebruik van Kernwapens 
legaal is of niet.  
(2) De Totale schuld van alle lidstaten aan de UN is 2,3 miljard 
Am.  Dollars. De USA neemt van deze totale schuld het grootste 
deel voor haar rekening nl. 1.6 miljard Am. Dollars.  

Ak Malten,

Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA).

..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>12/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-339</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-52</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c13 194.10.201.200 19970108025423 text/html 482
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:53:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 325
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=13">  Article </a><hr>13/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-340</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-95</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=13 194.10.201.200 19970108025507 text/html 4929
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:54:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4771
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Acties in de USA
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 12:37:18 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Wed, 29 May 1996 23:12:32 +0200
Subject:   Het ICJ staat onder druk en acties in de USA.

Acties in de USA rond het Kernwapen programma van de USA

Er zijn door belangrijke Vredesgroepen en Milieugroepen in de 
USA acties gestart rond het in de USA bestaande Kernwapens 
arsenaal; het uitbreiden in de USA van het Kernwapen arsenaal 
met nieuwe wapens en het in de USA doen van testen voor het 
instandhouden en uitbreiden van hun Kernwapen arsenaal.  De 
acties bestaan uit campagnes van belangrijke Vredes- en Milieu 
groepen om de Amerikaanse politici en het Amerikaanse volk voor 
te lichten over het buitensporige en provocerende Kernwapen 
arsenaal beheers- en besturings programma van het Ministerie van 
Energie (Department Of Energy (DOE)).  En nadat dit algemeen 
bekend is, dit beheers- en besturings programma te gaan 
controleren en het Kernwapen arsenaal in te krimpen.  

Een facet van deze acties is een brief gericht aan de Secretaris 
Hazel O'leary van het Ministerie van Energie (DOE) die voor eind 
mei aan haar verzonden zal worden.  
De brief is ontworpen om delen van het Kernwapen arsenaal 
beheers- en besturings programma (zoals het doen van 
"subcritical" tests (voetnoot 1)) af te remmen en een eerlijke 
discussie rond de Kernwapen politiek van de USA, met druk vanuit 
groepen, die strijden voor ontwapening, te openen.  Alle 
Amerikaanse Vredesgroepen en Milieugroepen worden dringend 
gevraag deze brief te ondertekenen.  
Op het moment dat ik dit schrijf, wordt deze brief ter 
ondertekening aan Amerikaanse Vredes- en Milieu organisaties 
rond gestuurd.  (sorry, het is jammer voor ons, maar we kunnen 
niet meedoen aan deze actie, tenzij je een Amerikaans paspoort 
hebt; het is een interne Amerikaans Politieke zaak. Indien je 
echter een Amerikaans paspoort wel hebt, dan kan je contact 
opnemen met Greg Mello van  de Los Alamos Study Group; E-mail 
lasg@igc.apc.org of Tel: +1.505.982.7747 en daar de brief 
ondertekenen met je naam en naam van de organisatie waartoe je 
behoort.) 

Afhankelijk van het antwoord van het Amerikaanse Ministerie van 
Energie (DOE) op de inhoud en standpunten, die in de 
bovengemelde brief staan, zal het onderhandelingsproces kunnen 
uitmonden in een proces tegen de DOE, vanwege het overtreden van 
de Nationale Milieupolitieke Wet (National Environmental Policy 
Act (NEPA)).  
Een kerngroep van organisaties, die op dit gebied werkzaam 
geweest zijn, zal met een juridisch team onderleiding van NRDC 
samenwerken om deze Nationaal Milieupolitieke onderwerpen met de 
DOE op te lossen of indien nodig een proces tegen de DOE 
hierover te beginnen.  

De bovenvermelde brief was toen ik hem in mijn bezit kreeg, 
reeds ondertekend door: 
American Friends Service Committee (Denver), Citizen Alert, 
Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety, Economists Allied for 
Arms Reduction, Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, 
Institute for Science and Security, Los Alamos Study Group, 
Natural Resources Defense Council, Physisian for Social 
Responsibility, Tri-Valley CAREs and Western States Legal 
Foundation.  

Voetnoten:
(1) "Subcritical" tests zijn o.a. testen met gebruik van 
nucleair materiaal ter grote van een briefkaart, wat tot 
ontploffing gebracht wordt met behulp van een laser, zonder dat 
bij deze ontploffing een daadwerkelijke kernreactie (= ketting 
reactie) plaatsvind. Maar natuurlijk is dit wel een nucleaire 
test en levert dit wel schade op voor het milieu.  

Ak Malten, 

Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA).  

N.B. Een afschrift van de bovenvermelde brief (in het Engels) is bij
ondergetekende verkrijgbaar.
(070-3608905).

Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten
         Irisstraat 134          Tel:+31.70.3608905
         2565TP The Hague        Fax:+31.70.3608905
         The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl

..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>13/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=12&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-341</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c14 194.10.201.200 19970108025555 text/html 747
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:55:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 590
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
" underground nuclear tests at the Nevada test site scheduled to 
begin on June 18th.  

        The tests are part of  a SO-CALLED plan for a $40 
billion "stockpile stewardship program" designed by 
unreconstructed cold warriors to "keep the design team 
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=14">  Article </a><hr>14/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-342</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-228</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=14 194.10.201.200 19970108025646 text/html 7999
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:56:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7841
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Protestbrief tegen Nucleaire testen
Date: Fri, 31 May 96 15:51:07 GMT

(Doorgestuurd bericht) 
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

From:      A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Date:      Thu, 30 May 1996 22:46:06 +0200
Subject:   Engelse Protest brief aan President Clinton 
           tegen Nucleaire testen.

Beste vrienden,

Hieronder tref je een protestbrief aan, gericht aan President 
Clinton (in het Engels) klaar om te printen en te verzenden en 
een ruwe vertaling van deze brief in het nederlands.  

De brief is een bewerking door mij van de brief die Alice Slater 
op abolition-caucus gezet heeft en die bedoeld is voor 
Amerikanen om hun Senatoren aan te schrijven, met het verzoek 
een protestbrief aan Clinton te sturen.  

In de Protestbrief aan Clinton wordt hem gevraag de geplande 
"sub-critical" testen, niet uit te voeren. De eerste is gepland 
voor 18 juni; we hebben dus enige haast voor het uitvoeren van 
deze actie.  Kopieer de brief; laat mensen hun handtekening 
zetten en de brief opsturen.  

Groetjes, 

Ak Malten, 

GANA.
===============================================================================
The Honourable William J. Clinton
President of the United States of America
The White House
Washington, DC 20500
USA
 
Dear Mr. President,

        Please Mr. President, as a citizen of the Netherlands 
and on behalf of the World, its Nature and its Inhabitants, I 
urge you to cancel announced plans to conduct six "sub-critical 
" underground nuclear tests at the Nevada test site scheduled to 
begin on June 18th.  

        The tests are part of  a <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>-called plan for a $40 
billion "stockpile stewardship program" designed by 
unreconstructed cold warriors to "keep the design team 
together", as they work on megacomputers to design new nuclear 
weapons for use in space and as earth penetrators.  The 
weaponeers contend that they test merely to insure the "safety 
and reliability" of the ageing arsenal. But the purpose of the 
new form of nuclear testing, "sub-critical" in combination with 
the use of extensive computer simulation programs is actually to 
test new nuclear weapon designs in virtual reality and 
underground.  

        Rather than passively monitoring the nuclear arsenal 
while it awaits dismantlement, the USA has plans for a whole new 
panoply of nuclear experiments, including a $1.5 billion 
contract with Bechtel for "sub-critical" tests. It plans to 
equip the labs with technology for virtual reality computer 
simulations of new weapons, ie, the National Ignition Facility 
at Livermore, the Dual Axis Radiographic Hydrotest Facility at 
Los Alamos, the Jupiter Facility at Sandia, and other 
technologies which are sure to encourage proliferation by other 
countries who will doubt the USA's commitment to the promise 
made at the Non-Proliferation Treaty conference to work for 
nuclear disarmament.  

        Thus while CTB negotiations continue in Geneva for your 
professed goal of a "zero-yield" CTB, the weapons labs go 
forward with sub-critical and computer testing, making a mockery 
of the original intention of the CTB to end the development of 
new weapons.  In the June 18th sub-critical test in Nevada, high 
explosives will be detonated underground in proximity to 
plutonium without quite setting off a critical chain reaction, 
at a cost of $20 million dollars for each test.  

        Please support us in our efforts to end the 
proliferation of nuclear weapons by canceling the sub-critical 
tests and close the test sites.  

Sincerely, 








The Netherlands, June 1996.                                     

------------ wat volgt is een ruwe vertaling van de brief

Aan de Zeer Geachte Heer  W.J.Clinton
President van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika
Het Witte Huis
Washington, DC 20500
USA

Zeer Geachte Meneer de President, 

Als 't U blieft, Meneer de President, als inwoner van Nederland 
en omwille van de Wereld, haar Natuur en haar Bevolking vraag ik 
U vriendelijk, doch dringend om de aangekondigde zes "sub-
critical" ondergrondse nucleaire test in het Nevada testgebied, 
te beginnen op de 18 de Juni, niet uit te voeren.  

De testen zijn een onderdeel van het 40 miljard dollar kostende 
plan, "Het beheersprogramma van het Kernwapen arsenaal". Dat 
plan is ontworpen door niet met hun tijd meegaande Koude Oorlog 
krijgers "om hun ontwerp-team bij elkaar te houden", terwijl ze 
werken op hun supercomputers om nieuwe Kernwapens te ontwerpen. 
Deze nieuwe Kernwapens zijn bedoeld voor het gebruik in de 
ruimte en om door de aardkorst heen te dringen. De Kernwapen 
ontwerpers willen ons doen geloven dat ze alleen maar bezig zijn 
met het testen om de "veiligheid en zekerheid" te onderzoeken 
van hun ouder wordend arsenaal. Maar het doel van de nieuwe vorm 
van testen, "sub-critical" in combinatie met het gebruik van 
zeer uitgebreide computer simulatie programma's is het testen 
van nieuwe kernwapen ontwerpen m.b.v. virtual reality en 
ondergronds.  

In plaats van passief hun Kernwapen arsenaal te bewaken, totdat 
het ontmanteld zal worden, heeft de USA plannen gemaakt voor een 
geheel nieuwe serie van nucleaire experimenten, inclusief een 
1,5 miljard dollar kostend contract met Bechtel voor "sub-
critical" testen. Het heeft plannen om de wapenlaboratoria, 
zoals de National Ignition Facility in Livermore, de Dual Axis 
Radiographic Hydrotest Facility in Los Alamos, de Jupiter 
Facility in Sandia, te bevoorraden met technologie voor het doen 
van virtual reality computer simulaties van nieuwe wapenvormen 
en andere technische hoogstandjes. Andere landen zullen de 
Amerikaanse, tijdens de conferentie over het "Non-Proliferatie 
Verdrag", gedane belofte om te werken aan een ontwapening op het 
gebied van Kernwapens in twijfel trekken. Wat deze landen zeker 
zal aanmoedigen zich ook te bewapenen.  

Dus, terwijl de CTB onderhandelingen doorgaan in Geneve om het 
door U publiekelijke uitgesproken gewenste doel van een "Nul-
optie" CTB te bereiken, gaan de Kernwapen laboratoria verder met 
sub-critical testen en computer simulaties die de 
oorspronkelijke opzet van het CTB om de ontwikkeling van nieuwe 
wapens te be-eindigen, belachelijk maken. Tijdens de "sub-
critical" test van 18 juni in Nevada zullen zeer explosieve 
stoffen in de nabijheid van plutonium ondergronds tot 
ontploffing gebracht worden, zonder dat dit een Nucleaire 
kettingreactie van het plutonium ten gevolg heeft. De kosten van  
zo'n test is 20 miljoen dollar.  

Als 't U blieft, steun ons in onze pogingen om de uitbereiding 
van Kernwapens een halt toe te roepen, door de sub-critical 
testen niet uit te voeren en de testgebieden te sluiten.  

Hoogachtend, 


Nederland, juni 1996.
=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten
         Irisstraat 134          Tel:+31.70.3608905
         2565TP The Hague        Fax:+31.70.3608905  
         The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================
..... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... 

(Einde doorgestuurd bericht)

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling
.
<hr>14/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=13&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-343</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-274</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c15 194.10.201.200 19970108025725 text/html 557
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:56:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 400
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: smart@xs4all.nl (M a R T)
Newsgroups: alt.society.zeitgeist,alt.theosophy,ann.algemeen,ann.vrede,aus.general,bionet.general
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=15">  Article </a><hr>15/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-344</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-330</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=15 194.10.201.200 19970108025814 text/html 2589
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:57:27 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2431
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: smart@xs4all.nl (M a R T)
Newsgroups: alt.society.zeitgeist,alt.theosophy,ann.algemeen,ann.vrede,aus.general,bionet.general
Subject: FReeDoM, WHaT DoeS iT MeaN To U ?????????????
Date: Thu, 06 Jun 1996 18:01:51 GMT

Freedom.
Reality for you or just something abstract ?
What do you think freedom is? And what do you think freedom should be
for mankind.
Please help with this inquiry by filling in the following form.
The result of this inquiry will be published on:
		<a href=http://www.xs4all.nl/~smart/freedom>http://www.xs4all.nl/~smart/freedom</a>

=================================================================
                                              -=The Freedom Inquiry=-

Gender (Male, Female).[ ]
Age...................[  ]
Country...............[                                         ]
City                  [                                         ]
Lived before in.......[                                         ]
                      [                                         ]
                      [                                         ]
                      [                                         ]

Profession............[                                         ]
Education.............[                                         ]

Personal Freedom
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]

Ultimate Freedom For Mankind
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
[                                                               ]
=================================================================
		Send this form to: smart@xs4all.nl


--

                    There Is No Time Like The Present

.
<hr>15/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=14&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-345</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-382</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c16 194.10.201.200 19970108025854 text/html 487
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:58:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 330
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=16">  Article </a><hr>16/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-346</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B034-436</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=16 194.10.201.200 19970108025946 text/html 3692
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:58:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3534
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.
Date: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 18:34:41 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Hierbij wil ik ieder op de hoogte stellen van de komende acties tegen zowel
de Chinese als Amerikaanse Kernproeven.
China heeft vorige week zaterdag een ondergrondse Kernproef gehouden. China
heeft verder aangekondigd voor eind september nog een kernproef te willen
houden.
Daarna wil China in de komende 10 jaar geen Kernproeven meer te houden, om
na die periode e.v.t. te besluiten weer opnieuw Kernproeven te gaan uitvoeren.
Amerika heeft aangekondigd dit jaar 2 "sub-critical" Kernproeven te willen
houden en in de loop van volgend jaar nog een serie van 4 "sub-critical"
Kernproeven. De eerste Amerikaanse test zal 18 juni a.s. uitgevoerd worden in
de staat Nevada.

Hiertegen moet actie worden gevoerd. In de hele wereld zijn er dan ook in
deze en de komende week acties gepland.

In Nederland zijn er 3 acties gepland. Er wordt hierbij samengewerkt door
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Het Haags Vredes Platform, een scholierengroep
Zoutzuur,
Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance. Alle 3 de acties zijn in Den Haag, omdat daar
de Ambassades gevestigd zijn en ook het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken in 
Den Haag zit.
Het is de bedoeling de acties vreedzaam te laten verlopen.

Actie 1.: Een Demonstratieve Wake op maandag 17 juni om 20.00 uur voor de
          Amerikaanse Ambassade tegen hun voorgenomen "sub-critical"
          Kernproeven.
Actie 2.: Een protestdemonstratie op dinesdag 18 juni om 11.00 uur voor de
          Chinese Ambassade (A.Goekooplaan) tegen de onlangs uitgevoerde
Kernproef.
Actie 3.: Aansluitend aan actie 2. zal er als Minister van Mierlo ons zou 
          willen ontvangen, hem 4000 petities aangeboden worden en hem
          vriendelijk, maar dringend verzocht worden zijn stem te verheffen
          bij de Veiligheidsraad van de Verenigde Naties en de Kernproeven
          van zowel China als de Verenigde Staten af te keuren.

In de 4000 petities wordt de Nederlandse Regering de volgende eisen gesteld:
* Geen geld voor kernenergie;
* Geen steun aan de ontwikkeling en instandhouding van kernenergie in Oost-
  Europa;
* Investeren in duurzame energie en energiebesparing.

Iedereen die aan de actie wil meedoen is welkom.
Voor verdere informatie:
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Marie-Jose Godding, 077-3511684 (Venlo);
Het Haags Vredes Platform, 070-3457133 (Den Haag);
Global Anti-Nuclear Allinace, Ak Malten, 070-3608905 (Den Haag).

Hopelijk tot ziens op een van de of op alle demonstraties,
Reacties e.v.t. per E-mail aan: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905			         
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905					  
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>16/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=15&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-347</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-37</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c17 194.10.201.200 19970108030028 text/html 487
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 03:59:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 330
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=17">  Article </a><hr>17/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-348</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=17 194.10.201.200 19970108030114 text/html 4028
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:00:33 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3870
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: NIEUWE INFO:Acties tegen Amerikaanse en Chinese Kernproeven.
Date: Fri, 14 Jun 1996 09:53:38 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Hierbij wil ik ieder op de hoogte stellen van de komende acties tegen zowel
de Chinese als Amerikaanse Kernproeven.
China heeft vorige week zaterdag een ondergrondse Kernproef gehouden. China
heeft verder aangekondigd voor eind september nog een kernproef te willen
houden.
Daarna wil China in de komende 10 jaar geen Kernproeven meer te houden, om
na die periode e.v.t. te besluiten weer opnieuw Kernproeven te gaan uitvoeren.
Amerika heeft aangekondigd dit jaar 2 "sub-critical" Kernproeven te willen
houden en in de loop van volgend jaar nog een serie van 4 "sub-critical"
Kernproeven. De eerste Amerikaanse test zal 18 juni a.s. uitgevoerd worden in
de staat Nevada.

Hiertegen moet actie worden gevoerd. In de hele wereld zijn er dan ook in
deze en de komende week acties gepland.

In Nederland zijn er 3 acties gepland. Er wordt hierbij samengewerkt door
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Het Haags Vredes Platform, een scholierengroep
Zoutzuur,
Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance. Alle 3 de acties zijn in Den Haag, omdat daar
de Ambassades gevestigd zijn en ook het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken in 
Den Haag zit.
Het is de bedoeling de acties vreedzaam te laten verlopen.

Actie 1.: Een Demonstratieve Wake op maandag 17 juni om 20.00 uur voor de
          Amerikaanse Ambassade tegen hun voorgenomen "sub-critical"
          Kernproeven.
Actie 2.: Een protestdemonstratie op dinesdag 18 juni om 11.00 uur voor de
          Chinese Ambassade (A.Goekooplaan) tegen de onlangs uitgevoerde
Kernproef.
Actie 3.: Aansluitend aan actie 2. zal er op dinsdag 18 juni om 13.00 uur
aan             Dhr. Gevers, Hoofd Afdeling Ontwapening en Internationale

          Vredesvraagstukken van het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken, 4000 
          petities aangeboden worden en hem vriendelijk, maar dringend verzocht
          worden Minister van Mierlo vriendelijk, maar dringend te verzoeken 
          zijn stem te verheffen bij de Veiligheidsraad van de Verenigde Naties 
          en de Kernproeven van zowel China als de Verenigde Staten af te 
          keuren.

In de 4000 petities wordt de Nederlandse Regering de volgende eisen gesteld:
* Geen geld voor kernenergie;
* Geen steun aan de ontwikkeling en instandhouding van kernenergie in Oost-
  Europa;
* Investeren in duurzame energie en energiebesparing.

Iedereen die aan de actie wil meedoen is welkom.
Voor verdere informatie:
Voor Moeder Aarde Nederland, Marie-Jose Godding, 077-3511684 (Venlo);
Het Haags Vredes Platform, 070-3457133 (Den Haag);
Global Anti-Nuclear Allinace, Ak Malten, 070-3608905 (Den Haag).


N.B. er zullen plaatselijke vertegenwoordigers van het CDA, de PVDA 
en Groen Links aanwezig zijn tijdens de demonstraties.

Hopelijk tot ziens op een van de of op alle demonstraties,
Reacties e.v.t. per E-mail aan: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 network.
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905			         
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905					  
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>17/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=16&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-349</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-159</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c18 194.10.201.200 19970108030201 text/html 502
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:01:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 345
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Arnold.Klomberg@inter.nl.net (Arnold Klomberg)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=18">  Article </a><hr>18/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-350</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-222</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=18 194.10.201.200 19970108030252 text/html 2136
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:02:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1978
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Arnold.Klomberg@inter.nl.net (Arnold Klomberg)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Innerlijke vrede
Date: Sun, 23 Jun 1996 05:23:50 GMT

IK BEVIND ME IN HET CENTRUM VAN VREDE

De wereld daarbuiten heeft geen vat op mij. Ik sta aan het hoofd van
mijn eigen wezen. Ik bewaak mijn eigen innerlijke wereld, want daar is
het waar ik creëer. Ik doe wat nodig is om mijn eigen innerlijke
wereld vredig te houden.

Mijn innerlijke vrede is essentieel voor mijn gezondheid en welzijn.
Ik keer naar binnen en vind die ruimte waar alles rustig en sereen is.
Ik kan haar zien als een vredig, diep en stil meer, omringd met groen
gras en met hoge, stille bomen. Ik kan haar voelen als witte, golvende
wolken waar je op kunt liggen en vertroeteld kunt worden. Ik kan haar
horen als heerlijke, vloeiende muziek die mijn zintuigen streelt.

Hoe ik ook mijn innerlijke ruimte wil ervaren, ik vind vrede. In het
midden van die vrede bevind ik mij. Ik vorm de puurheid en de stilte
van mijn creatieve proces. In vrede creëer ik. In vrede leef en beweeg
ik en ervaar ik het leven. Omdat ik midden in die innerlijke vrede
blijf staan, vind ik vrede in de wereld buiten mij.

En hoewel anderen misschien in chaos en ruzie leven, heeft dat geen
vat op mij, want ik verklaar mijzelf in vrede. En ook al is er waanzin
overal om mij heen, ik ben kalm, rustig en tevreden. Het Universum
kenmerkt zich door grote ordelijkheid en vredigheid en ik weerspiegel
dit in ieder moment van mijn leven. Ik kies ervoor te-vrede-nheid uit
te drukken, want ikzelf ben vrede.
En zo is het.

(Louise Hay)

.
<hr>18/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=17&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-351</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-284</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c19 194.10.201.200 19970108030333 text/html 482
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:02:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 325
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=19">  Article </a><hr>19/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-352</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-345</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=19 194.10.201.200 19970108030415 text/html 1625
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:03:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1467
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: omslag@antenna.nl (Omslag)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 96 16:47:13 GMT

    Gevraagd: vredes-ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw 

    ZWOLLE (Omslag) - De Stichting voor Aktieve Geweldloosheid 
(SVAG) heeft ter gelegenheid van haar dertigjarig bestaan een 
prijsvraag uitgeschreven voor de beste vredes-ideeen en 
vredesfoto's. Dit meldt de SVAG in een persbericht.  

    De beste inzendingen worden opgenomen in het boek 'Vredes-
ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw', dat op 19 oktober verschijnt.  
Iedere deelnemer ontvangt een gratis exemplaar van dat boek.  
Bovendien zijn er tien geldprijzen beschikbaar, van honderd tot 
duizend gulden.  

    De presentatie van het vredesboek vindt plaats op 19 oktober 
in Utrecht, tijdens de manifestatie 'Naar een wereld veilig voor 
mens en milieu'.  

    Er is een speciale krant met uitgebreide informatie over de 
prijsvraag. Deze is gratis verkrijgbaar bij de SVAG, Postbus 
137, 8000 AC Zwolle. Tel. 038-4216587.  

--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling 
.
<hr>19/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=18&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-353</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B035-393</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c20 194.10.201.200 19970108030454 text/html 492
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:04:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 335
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: bniels@future.antenna.nl (BAS NIELS)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=20">  Article </a><hr>20/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-354</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B036-29</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=20 194.10.201.200 19970108030544 text/html 2379
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:04:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2221
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: bniels@future.antenna.nl (BAS NIELS)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Re: Vredes-ideeen gevraagd
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 96 23:14:00 -0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------

O>    Gevraagd: vredes-ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw 

O>    ZWOLLE (Omslag) - De Stichting voor Aktieve Geweldloosheid 
O>(SVAG) heeft ter gelegenheid van haar dertigjarig bestaan een 
O>prijsvraag uitgeschreven voor de beste vredes-ideeen en 
O>vredesfoto's. Dit meldt de SVAG in een persbericht.  

O>    De beste inzendingen worden opgenomen in het boek 'Vredes-
O>ideeen voor de 21-ste eeuw', dat op 19 oktober verschijnt.  
O>Iedere deelnemer ontvangt een gratis exemplaar van dat boek.  
O>Bovendien zijn er tien geldprijzen beschikbaar, van honderd tot 
O>duizend gulden.  

O>    De presentatie van het vredesboek vindt plaats op 19 oktober 
O>in Utrecht, tijdens de manifestatie 'Naar een wereld veilig voor 
O>mens en milieu'.  

O>    Er is een speciale krant met uitgebreide informatie over de 
O>prijsvraag. Deze is gratis verkrijgbaar bij de SVAG, Postbus 
O>137, 8000 AC Zwolle. Tel. 038-4216587.  

O>--- Omslag, Werkplaats voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling 
O>                                                              
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Een TV-Kanaal gericht op de goede kanten van de mens.
(Positief-liefdevol-met respect voor alles-en eerlijk denken)
Want in de mind ligt de sleutel naar vrede.
En met het media gebeuren kom je tot de grote massa.
Wat is vrede? ?Geen oorlog. ?Rust met jezelf. ?Respect voor elkaar.
Tsjakkaa! Een oppep kanaal.
Maar het moet niet zweverig zijn.
(Hmmm, daar zou ik wel willen werken.)
????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
---
þ CMPQwk #1.42þ UNREGISTERED EVALUATION COPY

.
<hr>20/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=19&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-355</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B036-93</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c21 194.10.201.200 19970108030629 text/html 487
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:05:46 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 330
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=21">  Article </a><hr>21/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-356</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-56</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=21 194.10.201.200 19970108030722 text/html 2720
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:06:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2562
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: 8 juli uitspraak inzake Kernwapens door Internationaal Gerechtshof
Date: Sat, 29 Jun 1996 00:26:09 +0200

Beste vrienden,

Rob Green,  UK Chair World Court Project, belde me deze middag met het 
volgende verheugende nieuws en stuurde ieder lid van het Abolition 2000
Netwerk per E-mail het volgende bericht:
=======================================================================
>Dear Fellow Abolitionists, I have just heard from the Secretary of
>the World Court that Nuclear Judgment Day will be on Monday 8 July
>at 1000.  A Press Communique will be released shortly by the
>Court.

>Comments welcome on the effect this might have on the CTBT
>negotiations!

>Best wishes, Rob Green,  UK Chair World Court Project 

-----------
Vertaling voor de ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep:

Beste Mede Abolitioners, Ik heb net van de Secretaris van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof gehoord dat uitspraak inzake Kernwapens 
zal plaatsvinden op maandag 8 juli om 10.00. Een Persbericht zal 
spoedig door het Gerechtshof uitgegeven worden.

Kommentaar over mogelijk effect hiervan op de CTBT onderhandelingen
is welkom!

Hartelijke groeten, Rob Green, UK voorzitter van World Court Project.
---------

Voor ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep: Let op!!! ik kan wel E-mailen naar ANN.VREDE
maar ik kan de discussie op ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep niet volgen, dus graag
bij reactie een cc naar hieronder vermeld E-Mail adres.
====================================================================
Kommentaar in Engels of Nederlands welkom via E-Mail bij:

A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)


Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 Network,
                      A Global Network to Eliminate 
                      Nuclear Weapons
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>21/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=20&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-357</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-97</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c22 194.10.201.200 19970108030803 text/html 487
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:07:26 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 330
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=22">  Article </a><hr>22/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-358</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-143</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=22 194.10.201.200 19970108030858 text/html 6810
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:08:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6652
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: !!!Uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof inzake Kernwapens!!!  
Date: Sat, 29 Jun 1996 22:12:23 +0200

subject: Datum uitspraak Internationaal Gerechtshof/
         Datum van het ophalen van de Declarations of Public Conscience bij
         het Internationaal Gerechtshof.

Beste vrienden,

Hieronder volgt belangrijk nieuws inzake de uitspraak over de 
legaliteit van Kernwapens door het Internationaal Gerechtshof.
En wat betreft de Declarations of Public Conscience (DPC)
(Dat zijn Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn van particulieren
over de hele wereld verzameld, die aan de rechters van het 
Internationaal Gerechtshof zijn aangeboden als ondersteuning
van de uitspraken van de verschillende landen tegen Kernwapens)

Het Internationaal Gerechtshof zal maandag 8 juli om 10.00 uur
een adviserende uitspraak doen inzake de legaliteit van Kernwapens.
(see COMMUNIQUE 96/21, sorry voor lezer van ANN.VREDE nieuwsgroep,
maar ik heb geen tijd voor een vertaling).

Op dinsdag morgen 9 juli om 10.00 uur zullen de dozen met
Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn van particulieren voor 
de hekken van het Internationaal Gerechtshof worden opgesteld,
waarna ze door de Japanse TV worden gefilmd.
In het totaal zijn er 3.691.899 Verklaringen van Rechtsbewustzijn 
door particulieren ondertekend, waarvan er alleen al in Japan 
3.338.408 zijn verzameld. 
Ik schat dat er ongeveer 120 dozen opgestapeld moeten worden.
Voor de nederlandse pers is dit OOK de gelegenheid om deze dozen 
te fotograferen en/of te filmen en een interview te houden met 
leden van het World Court Project. 
Nadat dit gebeurd is zullen de dozen weer ergens worden opgeslagen,
totdat ze aan de reis naar Engeland beginnen (sept/okt), waar
ze permanent tentoongesteld gaan worden in een vredesmuseum.

Met vriendelijke groeten,

Ak Malten,

GANA.

(Voor ANN.VREDE graag reacties naar mijn E-mail adres;
ik kan wel E-mailen naar ANN.VREDE, maar de discussie
op de nieuwsgroep niet volgen!)

E-mail Adres: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
===============================================================
June 28, 1996
 
Dear Abolition Friends,
RE: INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE TO ISSUE OPINION ON
JULY 8, 1996 IN THE HAGUE
 
Here at last is the news we've been waiting for from the
International Court of Justice in the Hague. They will issue their
advisory opinion on Monday, July 8 at 10:00 a.m. What follows is
the verbatim communique from the court. If you have questions,
please contact the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy in the U.S.
(212) 670 7794, the International Peace Bureau in Geneva,
Switzerland +41 22 731 6429, the World Court Project/UK +44 1323
844 269, or the International Physicians for the Prevention of
Nuclear Arms in the U.S. (617) 868 5050.
 
                International Court of Justice
               Peace Palace, 2517 KJ The Hague. 
                    Tel. +31 70 302 23 23 
                      Cables: Intercourt 
              The Hague Telefax +31 70 364 99 28
 
COMMUNIQUE
unofficial 
for immediate release
No. 96/21
28 June 1996
 
      Legality of the Use by a State of Nuclear Weapons 
                       in Armed Conflict
                (Request for Advisory Opinion 
               by the World Health Organization)
                               
       Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons
                (Request for Advisory Opinion 
        by the General Assembly of the United Nations)
                               
       Advisory Opinions to be delivered on 8 July 1996
                               
The following information is communicated to the Press by the
Registry of the International Court of Justice:
 
The Court will hold a public sitting at 10 a.m. on Monday 8 July
1996 in the Great Hall of Justice of the Peace Palace in The Hague
for the purpose of delivering its Advisory Opinions on the
requests made in the above cases by the World Health
Organization and by the General Assembly of the United Nations
respectively.
 
                      NOTE FOR THE PRESS
 
 
1. The public sitting will be held in the Great Hall of Justice of
the Peace Palace, The Hague, The Netherlands. Members of the
Press will be entitled to attend on presentation of an admission
card, which may be obtained upon application. The tables reserved
for them are situated on the far left of the public entrance of the
courtroom.
 
2. Photographs may be taken at the opening, during the first five
minutes of the sitting; and also for a few minutes towards its end.
Filming for television purposes is authorized; advance notice to be
given as per paragraph 6 below.
 
3. In the Press Room, located on the ground floor of the Peace
Palace (Room 5), the reading of the Court's Opinions will be
relayed through a loudspeaker.
 
4. After the close of the sitting, a press Communique will be
distributed in the Press Room (Room No. 5).
 
5. Members of the Press who wish to make telephone calls may use
the public telephones in the Post Office in the basement of the
Palace.
 
6. Mr. Arthur Witteveen, Secretary of the Court (Press and
Information Matters) (tel no. +31 70 302 23 36) will be available to
deal with any requests for information by members of the Press
or for making arrangements for television coverage.
 
-30-
 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
ABOLITION 2000: A Global Network to Eliminate Nuclear Weapons
                Pamela S. Meidell, Facilitator
                     Global Network Office
                         P.O. Box 220 
           Port Hueneme, California, USA 93044-0220
fax: 805/985 7563 tel: 805/985 5073 email: pmeidell@igc.apc.org
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


=============================================================
Name of Organisation: Global Anti-Nuclear Alliance (GANA)
Which is a member of: The Abolition 2000 Network,
                      A Global Network to Eliminate 
                      Nuclear Weapons
Address: c/o Ak Malten					   
        Irisstraat 134		Tel:+31.70.3608905
	2565TP The Hague	Fax:+31.70.3608905
	The Netherlands         E-Mail: A.Malten@net.HCC.nl
=============================================================

.
<hr>22/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=21&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-359</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-178</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c23 194.10.201.200 19970108030936 text/html 498
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:09:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 341
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Willemijn Straeter <wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl>
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=23">  Article </a><hr>23/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-360</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-231</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=23 194.10.201.200 19970108031017 text/html 3178
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:09:39 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3020
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Willemijn Straeter  wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl 
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: Vertaling persbericht Internationaal Gerechtshof d.d. 28 juni
Date: Sun, 30 Jun 1996 14:36:23 +0200

Hier onder volgt de (NIET-officiele) vertaling in het Nederlands van het
persbericht uitgegeven door het Internationaal Gerechtshof op 28 juni 1996
(nr. 96/21), betreffende de datum van een uitspraak over kernwapens.

Internationaal Gerechtshof
Vredespaleis, 2517 KJ Den Haag
tel : 070 302 23 23
fax: 070 364 99 28

Persbericht
nr. 96/21
28 juni 1996

RECHTMATIGHEID VAN HET GEBRUIK VAN KERNWAPENS DOOR EEN LAND IN GEWAPEND
CONFLICT (verzoek om een adviserende uitspraak door de Wereld
Gezondheidsorganisatie)

RECHTMATIGHEID VAN HET DREIGEN MET, OF HET GEBRUIK VAN KERNWAPENS (verzoek
om een adviserende uitspraak door de Algemene vergadering van de Verenigde
Naties)

Uitspraak zal gedaan worden op 8 juli 1996

De griffie van het Internationaal Gerechtshof verstrekt de volgende
informatie aan de pers:

Het Hof zal op 8 juli 1996 om 10.00 uur een openbare zitting houden in de
grote rechtszaal
van het Vredespaleis in Den Haag om uitspraken te doen  in bovengenoemde
kwesties, zoals gevraagd door  respektievelijk de Wereld
Gezondheidsorganisatie en de Algemene Vergadering van de Verenigde Naties.

MEDEDELING VOOR DE PERS
1. De openbare zitting wordt gehouden in de grote rechtszaal van het
Vredespaleis, Den Haag. Leden van de pers kunnen dit bijwonen op vertoon van
een toegangskaart die op aanvraag verkregen kan worden. De voor hen
gereserveerde plaatsen bevinden zich geheel links bij de publieke ingang van
de rechtzaal.

2. Er kunnen foto's gemaakt worden tijdens de opening, tijdens de eerste 5
minuten van de zitting en ook enkele minuten tegen het eind van de zitting.

3. In de perszaal, die zich op de begane grond van het Vredespaleis bevindt
(zaal 5), wordt de lezing van de uitspraken van het Hof door een luidspreker
weergegeven.

4. Na sluiting van de zitting zal een persbericht worden verspreid in de
perskamer (nr. 5).

5. Leden van de pers die willen telefoneren, kunnen gebruik maken van de
publieke telefoons in het postkantoor in het sousterain van het Vredespaleis.

6. De Heer Arthur Witteveen, Secretaris van het Hof (pers- en
informatiezaken; tel. 070-302 23 36) is beschikbaar voor alle
informatieverzoeken door de pers, of voor het maken van afspraken ten
behoeve van  tv-uitzendingen.



****************************************************************************
***********************


Een kopie van eventuele reakties in de nieuwsgroep, graag naar:
A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)


.
<hr>23/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=22&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-361</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-295</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c24 194.10.201.200 19970108031104 text/html 962
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:10:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 805
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: Womens International League for Peace and Freedom <womensleague@gn.apc.org> (by way of Willemijn Straeter <wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl>)
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
- - - -
accordance with the provision of Article VII.

2.  At intervals of ten years thereafter, further Review Conferences may be
convened with the same objective, if the Conference SO decides as a matter
of procedure in the preceding year.  Such Conferences may be convened after
an interval of less than ten years if SO decided by the Conference as a
matter of substance.

- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=24">  Article </a><hr>24/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-362</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-350</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=24 194.10.201.200 19970108031147 text/html 13013
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:11:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 12854
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Womens International League for Peace and Freedom  womensleague@gn.apc.org  (by way of Willemijn Straeter  wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl )
Newsgroups: ann.vrede
Subject: new CTBT text
Date: Wed, 3 Jul 1996 17:31:53 +0200

Hieronder volgen  de belangrijkste stukken uit de nieuwe compromis-tekst
voor een CTBT (Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty), zoals die afgelopen vrijdag
28-6-96 in Geneve door de voorzitter, ambassadeur Ramaker,  is voorgelegd
aan de Conference on Disarmament (CD). 

Deze tekst wordt nu door de 61 lidstaten van de CD bestudeerd. Het is de
bedoeling dat de CD-delegaties op 29 juli weer bij elkaar komen, om dan
(hopelijk) tot formele overeenstemming te komen. 
Als dat gelukt is, kan vervolgens de Algemene Vergadering van de VN (in een
speciale sessie in augustus) haar goedkeuring verlenen, om tenslotte in
september door de VN  ondertekend te worden.

De tijd ontbrak helaas om dit bericht uit de nieuwsgroup "abolition-caucus
in het Nederlands te vertalen, terwijl noch het Miniserie van Buitenlandse
Zaken, noch NGO-waarnemers in de CD, een (officiele) Nederlandse vertaling
zullen maken.

Graag weer Kopieen van eventuele reakties in de diskussiegroep naar:
wstraeter@wnet.bos.nl
of
A.Malten@net.HCC.nl (Ak Malten)



========================================================================
The following is the interesting segments of the new text of the CTBT put
down by Jaap Ramaker 4pm Friday 28th June. Words that are underlined will be
in capitals for emailing purposes. Please excuse typos, I've done this in a
hurry to get it out ASAP, love felicity ruby 

Preamble

The States Parties to this Treaty (hereinafter referred to as "the States
Parties"),

WELCOMING the international agreements and other positive measures of recent
years in the field of nuclear disarmament, including reductions in arsenals
of nuclear weapons, as well as in the field of the prevention of nuclear
proliferation in all its aspects,

UNDERLINING the importance of the full and prompt implementation of such
agreements and 
measures,

CONVINCED that the present international situation provides an opportunity
to take further effective measures towards nuclear disarmament and against
the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects, 

and DECLARING their intention to take such measures,

STRESSING therefore the need for continued systematic and progressive
efforts to reduce nuclear weapons globally, with the ultimate goal of
eliminating those weapons, and of general and complete disarmament under
strict and effective international control,

RECOGNIZING that the cessation of all nuclear weapon test explosions and all
other nuclear 
explosions, by constraining the development and qualitative improvement of
nuclear weapons and ending the development of advanced new types of nuclear
weapons, constitutes and effective measure of nuclear disarmament and
non-proliferation in all its aspects, 

FURTHER RECOGNISING that an end to all such nuclear explosions will thus
constitute a 
meaningful step in the realisation of a systematic process to achieve
nuclear disarmament,

CONVINCED that the most effective way to achieve an end to nuclear testing
is through the 
conclusion of a universal and internationally and effectively verifiable
comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, which has long been one of the
highest priority objectives of the international community in the field of
disarmament and non-proliferation,

NOTING the aspirations expressed by the Parties to the 1963 Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water to
seek to achieve the discontinuation of all test explosions of nuclear
weapons for all time,

NOTING ALSO the views expressed that this Treaty could contribute to the
protection of the 
environment,

AFFIRMING the purpose of attracting the adherence of all States to this
Treaty and its objective to contribute effectively to the prevention of the
proliferation of nuclear weapons in all its aspects, to the process of
nuclear disarmament and therefore to the enhancement of international peace
and security,

HAVE AGREED as follows:

end Preamble

ON SITE INSPECTIONS

34. Each State Party has the right to request an on-site inspection in
accordance with the provision of this Article and Part II of the Protocol in
the territory or in any other place under the jurisdiction or control of any
State Party, or in any area beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State.

35.  The sole purpose of an on-site inspection shall be to clarify whether a
nuclear weapon test explosion or any other nuclear explosion has been
carried out in violation of Article I and, to the extent possible, to gather
any facts which might assist in identifying any possible violator.

36.  The requesting State Party shall be under the obligation to keep the
on-site inspection request within the scope of this Treaty and to provide in
the request information in accordance with paragraph 
37.  The requesting State party shall refrain from unfounded or abusive
inspection requests.

37.  The on-site inspection request shall be based on information collected
by the International Monitoring System, on any relevant technical
information obtained by national technical means of verification in a manner
consistent with generally recognised principles of international law, or a
combination thereof.  The request shall contain information pursuant to Part
II, paragraph of the Protocol.

38.  The requesting State Party shall present the on-site inspection request
to the Executive Council and at the same time to the Director-General for
the latter to begin immediately processing.

FOLLOW UP AFTER SUBMISSION OF AN ON-SITE INSPECTION REQUEST

39.  The Executive Council shall begin its consideration immediately upon
receipt of the on-site inspection request.

40.  The Director-General, after receiving the on-site inspection request,
shall acknowledge receipt of the request to the requesting State party
within two hours and communicate the request to the State party sought to be
inspected within six hours.  The Director-General shall ascertain that the
request meets the requirements specified in part II, paragraph 41 of the
Protocol, and, if necessary, shall assist the requesting State party in
filing the request accordingly, and shall communicate the request to the
Executive Council and to all other States Parties within 24 hours.

41.  When the on-site inspection request fulfills the requirements, the
Technical Secretariat shall begin preparations for the on-site inspection
without delay.

42.  the Director-General, upon receipt of an on-site inspection request
referring to an inspection area under the jurisdiction or control of a State
Party, shall immediately seek clarification from the State party sought to
be inspected in order to clarify and resolve the concern raised in the request.

43.  A State party that receives a request for clarification pursuant to
paragraph 42 shall provide the Director-General with explanations and with
other relevant information available as soon as possible, but no later than
72 hours after receipt of the request for clarification.

44. The Director-General, before the Executive Council takes a decision on
the on-site inspection request, shall transmit immediately to the Executive
Council and additional information available from the International
Monitoring System or provided by any State Party on the event specified in
the request, including any clarification provided pursuant to paragraphs 42
and 43, as well as any other information from within the Technical
Secretariat that the Director-General deems relevant or that is requested by
the Executive Council.

45.  Unless the requesting State party considers the concern raised in the
on-site inspection request to be resolved and withdraws the request, the
Executive Council shall take a decision on the request in accordance with
paragraph 46.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL DECISIONS

46.  The Executive Council shall takes a decision on the on-site inspection
request no later than 96 hours after receipt of the request from the
requesting State party. The decision to approve the on-site inspection shall
be made by a majority of all members of the Executive Council.  If the
Executive Council does not approve the inspection, preparations shall be
stopped and no further action on the request shall be taken.

47.  No later than 25 days after the approval of the on-site inspection in
accordance with paragraph 46, the inspection team shall transmit to the
Executive Council, through the Director-General, a progress inspection
report.  The continuation of the inspection shall be considered approved
unless the Executive Council, no later than 72 hours after receipt of the
progress inspection report, decides by a majority of all its members not to
continue the inspection.  If the Executive Council decides not to continue
the inspection, the inspection shall be terminated, and the inspection team
shall leave the inspection area and the territory of the inspected State
Party as soon as possible in accordance with Part II, paragraphs 109 and 110
of the Protocol.

END ON ON-SITE INSPECTION TEXT THAT I HAVE

REVIEW OF THE TREATY - ARTICLE VIII

1.  Unless otherwise decided by a majority of the States Parties, ten years
after the entry into force of this Treaty, a Conference of the States
Parties shall be held to review the operation and effectiveness of this
Treaty, with a view to assuring itself that the objectives and purposes in
the Preamble and the provisions of the Treaty are being realized.  Such
review shall take into account any new scientific and technological
developments relevant to this Treaty.  On the basis of a request by any
State Party, the Review Conference shall consider the possibility of
permitting the conduct of underground nuclear explosions for peaceful
purposes.  If the Review Conference decides by consensus that such nuclear
explosions may be permitted, it shall commence work without delay, with a
view to recommending to States parties an appropriate amendment to this
Treaty that shall preclude any military benefits of such nuclear explosions.
Any such proposed amendment shall be communicated 
to the Directory-General by any State Party and shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provision of Article VII.

2.  At intervals of ten years thereafter, further Review Conferences may be
convened with the same objective, if the Conference <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> decides as a matter
of procedure in the preceding year.  Such Conferences may be convened after
an interval of less than ten years if <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a> decided by the Conference as a
matter of substance.

3.  Normally, any Review Conference shall be held immediately following the
regular annual session of the Conference provided for in Article II.

END OF REVIEW

ENTRY INTO FORCE - ARTICLE XIV

1.  This Treaty shall enter into force 180 days after the date of deposit of
the instruments of 
ratification by all States listed in Annex 2 to this Treaty, but in no case
earlier than two years after its opening for signature.

2.  If this Treaty has not entered into force three years after the date of
the anniversary of its opening for signature, the Depository shall convene a
Conference of the States that have already deposited their instruments of
ratification on the request of a majority of those States.  That Conference
shall examine the extent to which the requirements set out in paragraph 1
has been met and shall consider and decide by consensus what measures
consistent with international law may be undertaken to accelerate the
ratification process in order to facilitate the early entry into force of
this Treaty.

3.  Unless otherwise decided by the Conference referred to in paragraph 2 or
other such conferences, this process shall be repeated at subsequent
anniversaries of the opening for signature of this Treaty, until its entry
into force.

4.  All States signatories shall be invited to attend the Conference
refereed to in paragraph 2 and any subsequent conferences as referred to in
paragraph 3, as observers.

5.  For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are deposited
subsequent to the entry into force of this Treaty, it shall enter into force
on the 30th day following the date of deposit of their instruments of
ratification or accession.





.
<hr>24/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=23&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-363</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-395</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c25 194.10.201.200 19970108031227 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:11:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=25">  Article </a><hr>25/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-364</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B019-447</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=25 194.10.201.200 19970108031310 text/html 4035
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:12:30 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3877
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Re: Orphaned Response
Date: 28 May 1996 14:40:56



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
                        ACTION ALERT
May 27, 1996
As of this writing the impasse between the Zapatista Army of
National Liberation (EZLN) and the Mexican government
remains unresolved.  The recent sentence of two "alleged"
members of the EZLN to long prison terms with no significant
evidence against them and a complete lack of due process has
caused the EZLN to declare the "impossibility" of a
continuance of the peace talks.
Because these political prisoners are literally hostages of
the peace process the National Commission for Democracy, USA
has declared the need for a national campaign for their
liberation. Until such liberation occurs, the Mexican
government will continue to utilize them to extort
concessions at the negotiating table and/or use their
imprisonment against accountability to any agreements.  The
EZLN has also called upon the Mexican government to take
some definitive action against the para-military groups and
"death" squads which are openly operating in the state of
Chiapas.
The present impasse in combination with a widespread famine
due to the inability of indigenous communities to lay in
crops, present the same crisis as existed in February 9th of
1995, and December of 1994.
We therefore call upon all interested individuals and
organizations to aid us in increasing international pressure
upon the Mexican government by collaborating with us in a
Campaign for the Liberation of the Political Prisoners.
Although there exists some possibility the impasse may be
resolved this week, it is our belief that an international
campaign calling for the freedom of these prisoners has
become a primordial need.  We therefore will carry out this
Campaign regardless of the outcome of this present crisis.
The campaign for the Liberation of these prisoners consists
of the following;
     1) We ask all concerned individuals to initiate the
campaign with a simultaneous
      press conference to be held June 3-5th.  A history of
the irregularities contained
      in their imprisonment can be obtained through the
National Center for Democracy, Liberty and Justice at this
address.

     2)  A letter-writing campaign to Warren Christopher at
the State Department will     be conducted throughout the
period of June 5 through July 1.  We call upon    people to
hold educationals about this issue and to otherwise
publicize in any way     possible the lack of human rights
in Mexico.  A sample of the letter to Christopher      is
included with this alert.  Please call upon prominent
national and local leaders    to add their voices to this
petition in order to demonstrate the concern for a continued
peace process.

     3)  The campaign will end on July 1 by culminating in a
    National Day of Reflection and Prayer.  We call upon
                    Churches, individuals
           committed to peace, and community leaders to
                participate in this Day in a
public demonstration of
     support for the liberation of these prisoners
and the end to paramilitary operations in Chiapas.

  Please contact the National Center for Democracy,
Liberty and Justice for
further information.  We hope you share our great
hope
for peace in Mexico and we urge you to do whatever you
can to demonstrate this hope by your participation in
this campaign.


.
<hr>25/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=24&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-365</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-8</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c26 194.10.201.200 19970108031356 text/html 823
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:13:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 666
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -

Rev. Walker commented on the efforts of the broad-based and
determined grassroots support that made possible the release of the
computers.   SO many people said the computers could never be freed by
the U.S. government, especially during this difficult moment for
U.S./Cuba relations.  But we are sure that the thousands of people who
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=26">  Article </a><hr>26/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-366</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-46</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=26 194.10.201.200 19970108031445 text/html 3887
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:13:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3729
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Re: Computers Released -- what happens
Date: 27 May 1996 23:31:34

Subject:       Computers Released -- what happens next!


                      NEWS RELEASE
                 IFCO/Pastors for Peace
                            
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                          
Monday, May 27, 1996
CONTACT:
In DC:   Ed Newman, Ellen Bernstein:   (202) 544-3825,  (202)488-5654    
Fax: (202) 544-3389
In San Diego:  Andrea Saenz, John Bracken:  (619) 582-8288; (619) 286-3004
In NYC:  (212) 926-5757    In Minneapolis:  (612) 870-7121
                            
        COMPUTERS RELEASED.  FAST ENDS.  CHURCHES
       KEEP WORKING TO DELIVER COMPUTERS TO CUBA.

 With the release of the computers held by U.S. Customs in San
Diego, we ve seen the completion of two steps in a five-step process. 
Our work will not be complete until all of the humanitarian aid is in
Cuba,  stated the Reverend Lucius Walker, Jr., Executive Director of
the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO) and
Pastors for Peace.  Rev. Walker outlined the remaining steps needed for
nearly 400 medical computers -- which had been seized by U.S.
authorities when the ecumenical group attempted to take them to Cuba
without a license -- to be delivered to churches and hospitals.

Last Friday night, May 24th, Rev. Walker, along with Lisa Valanti
and Jim Clifford, ended their 94-day fast when the 339 U.S.
computers, which had been confiscated in San Diego, were released to
the General Board of Church and Society of the United Methodist
Church.  Previously, Canadian Brian Rohatyn ended his fast when 23
Canadian computers were released on May 17th.  The Canadian
computers are now in Mexico awaiting shipment to Cuba.

 Three steps remain in this process,  explained Rev. Walker.   First,
the release of 35 more computers which were seized from Pastors for
Peace at the Highgate, Vermont border crossing on February 17th.  Next,
the transfer of the San Diego computers to Mexico and the Highgate
computers to Canada; and finally, delivery by the coalition of churches of
all the computers to Cuba -- which we pray will happen soon. 

Rev. Walker commented on the efforts of the broad-based and
determined grassroots support that made possible the release of the
computers.   <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>So</a> many people said the computers could never be freed by
the U.S. government, especially during this difficult moment for
U.S./Cuba relations.  But we are sure that the thousands of people who
applied pressure on Washington to win the computers  release won t rest
until the remaining steps of the process are completed. 

The Executive Director of IFCO/Pastors for Peace explained that the
Methodist Board of Church and Society -- as well as the other
church partners involved in this joint venture --  fully share in our
commitment to send this aid to Cuba without requesting or
accepting a Treasury license.  We do fully expect that the Treasury
Department, as it reviews the information the Methodists have provided,
will be assured that these used medical computers are indeed
humanitarian aid and will allow their shipment to the intended destination:
churches and health care facilities in Cuba. 

-30-

.
<hr>26/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=25&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-367</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-81</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c27 194.10.201.200 19970108031531 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:14:48 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=27">  Article </a><hr>27/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-368</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-122</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=27 194.10.201.200 19970108031614 text/html 1945
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:15:33 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1787
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: moonlight@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: update: another prisoner sentenced
Date: 28 May 1996 16:05:55


Update

     Recent news from Mexico indicates that Mexico's State
Department remains intransigent towards the EZLN.
Negotiator Marco Antonio Bernal stated today that:
     1) the federal gov't is not considering any "violent"
action
     2) the sentencing of the prisoners proceeds and the law
which governs the   peace is not a "straightjacket"
     3)the EZLN should bring any issues to the negotiating
table on June 5th or
     re-set a date.

     Meanwhile, in Veracruz, Francisco Garcia Santiago, a
presumed Zapatista, was found guilty and sentenced to 7
years in jail and a fine of $15,000 pesos.  Santiago was
sentenced based upon a confession obtained from him after
members of his family had been kidnapped by state police and
threats to their safety were used to obtain his confession.
He was sentenced for the sabotage of an electrical tower in
Veracruz.

Taken from La Jornada 5/28/96

NCDLJ



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
 * This message contains the file 'upd528.asc', which has been
 * uuencoded. If you are using Pegasus Mail, then you can use
 * the browser's eXtract function to lift the original contents
 * out to a file, otherwise you will have to extract the message
 * and uudecode it manually.

.
<hr>27/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=26&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-369</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-164</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c28 194.10.201.200 19970108031657 text/html 478
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:16:16 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 321
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: p4p@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=28">  Article </a><hr>28/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-370</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-193</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=28 194.10.201.200 19970108031739 text/html 3086
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:16:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2928
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: p4p@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: CAMPAIGN FOR CORN
Date: 28 May 1996 16:24:53

From: "Pastors for Peace"  p4p@igc.apc.org 

THERE IS A FOOD CRISIS IN CHIAPAS.  YOU CAN HELP SAVE THE LIVES 
OF THOUSANDS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLE WHO ARE 
STRUGGLING FOR PEACE WITH JUSTICE AND DIGNITY.
 
                       Support the Campaign for Corn

During the Spring Caravan for Peace to Chiapas and Guatemala,
indigenous community leaders and human rights activists in Chiapas 
informed Pastors for Peace of the critical shortage of food in the
zones of conflict. Last year, the crops of  20,000 indigenous people
were destroyed after they fled their communities during the Mexican
army s February offensive.  As a result, they had very little food
during the previous year and very little seed with which to plant this
year s crop.

Paramilitary groups and the Mexican army are exacerbating the
shortage of food by threatening people who attempt to leave their
communities to tend to their fields or sell their products.  Some
communities have reported that the military has taken their land to
use as helipads or soldiers  quarters and regularly patrols their
fields to dissuade people from attending to crops. 

Indigenous community leaders have told Pastors for Peace that
international support for their communities is absolutely essential
to avoid widespread starvation.  The majority of indigenous men,
women and children in Chiapas  are already suffering some form of 
low-grade malnutrition.  The lack of food coupled with ongoing
military pressure threatens the lives of thousands of indigenous
families, and endangers the fragile peace process in Chiapas. 
Immediate emergency relief aid from international organizations is
critical.

In response to this urgent call, Pastors for Peace announces a
national Campaign for Corn. Pastors for Peace asks all supporters of
the indigenous struggle for peace with justice and dignity in
Chiapas to raise money for the purchase of food in Mexico.  Foodstuffs
will be delivered directly  to indigenous communities by Pastors for
Peace delegations this summer.  

The need for food is too great to wait for the next caravan. 
Express your solidarity by  raising urgently needed funds to feed
indigenous families TODAY. 

For more information about the Campaign for Corn, or to let us know 
how you want to help, please contact:  
IFCO/Pastors for Peace at tel: 612-870-7121, fax: 612-870-7109, 
email: p4p@igc.apc.org

































.
<hr>28/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=27&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-371</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-220</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c29 194.10.201.200 19970108031818 text/html 479
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:17:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 322
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=29">  Article </a><hr>29/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-372</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-268</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=29 194.10.201.200 19970108031909 text/html 7874
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:18:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7716
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Message from Rev. Lucius Walker
Date: 28 May 1996 20:21:50

the interreligious foundation for community organization
402 west 145th street, new york, ny 10031  212/926-5757 
fax: 212/926-5842



This memo is an overview of the most recent developments in the
continuing campaign of IFCO/Pastors for Peace to deliver to Cuba,
without a license, the medical computers which U.S. Customs seized
from our volunteers in San Diego on January 31st and February 17th.

We are pleased to tell you that the computers in San Diego have been
RELEASED!!!!  

THANKS BE TO GOD WHO, WITH OUR HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS,  GAVE US THE VICTORY!!!

At 11pm on Friday, May 24th, day 94 of the Fast for Life, Dr. Thom
White Wolf Fassett, General Secretary of the General Board of Church
and Society of the United Methodist Church, signed an agreement with
the U.S. Treasury to achieve the release of the computers into the
custody of the General Board of Church and Society.  Dr. Fassett
authorized two local Methodist pastors in San Diego, The Rev. John
Lurvey and The Rev. James Jones, to act as his representatives.  Revs.
Jones and Lurvey supervised the transfer of the computers to a storage
facility rented by the Board of Church and Society.  The keys for the
storage facility are now in the pastors' possession.

At midnight on Friday, May 24 -- day 94 of the Fast for Life --  Rev.
Lucius Walker, Lisa Valanti and Jim Clifford ended their fast in a brief
service of celebration and thanksgiving in the Methodist Building. 

YOUR EFFORTS HAVE MADE THE DIFFERENCE!!!  BUT THE
CAMPAIGN IS NOT OVER.  WE HAVE COMPLETED ONLY
TWO STEPS OF A FIVE STEP PROCESS -- AND WHILE
NEGOTIATIONS CONTINUE, WE MUST KEEP THE PRESSURE
ON!!!  


STEP ONE  -  RELEASE OF THE CANADIAN COMPUTERS
SEIZED IN SAN DIEGO 

On Friday, May 17th, the Canadian computers seized in San Diego
were released to the General Board of Church and Society of the
United Methodist Church and taken to a storage facility in Mexico. 
That evening Brian Rohatyn, the Canadian faster, ended his fast.

STEP TWO  -  RELEASE OF THE U.S. COMPUTERS SEIZED
IN SAN DIEGO 

On Friday, May 24th, the U.S. computers seized in San Diego on
January 31st & February 17th were released into the custody of the
General Board of Church & Society of the United Methodist Church
and put into storage in San Diego pending continued negotiations for
their transfer to Cuba.  Rev. Lucius Walker, Jr., James Clifford and
Lisa Valanti ended their 94-day fast that night.


STEP THREE  -  RELEASE INTO CANADA OF THE 35
COMPUTERS SEIZED AT HIGHGATE, VERMONT ON
FEBRUARY 17th 

On February 17th, Canadian and U.S. citizens attempted to donate 35
computers to Cuba by crossing the U.S./Canadian border at Highgate,
Vermont.  The computers were seized.  THESE COMPUTERS CAN
BE RELEASED THIS WEEK IF WE KEEP THE PRESSURE ON
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE
HOUSE!    

STEP FOUR  -   TRANSFER TO MEXICO OF THE
COMPUTERS NOW IN CUSTODY OF THE GENERAL BOARD
OF CHURCH & SOCIETY OF THE  UNITED METHODIST
CHURCH WHICH ARE BEING HELD IN STORAGE IN SAN
DIEGO

These computers must be transferred to Mexico in preparation for
shipment to Cuba.  In the spirit of the negotiations between the Board
of Church and Society and the Treasury Department, it is likely that
this transfer could happen in a matter of days.  BUT TO INSURE
THIS TRANSFER WE ARE ASKING ALL OUR SUPPORTERS TO
KEEP THE PRESSURE ON BOTH THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE HOUSE!!!

On a previous occasion U.S. Treasury agents broke into a private
storage locker and stole crutches and baby formula which we were
storing for a future caravan.  We know that another break-in is a
possibility; therefore, we must KEEP THE PRESSURE ON UNTIL
THE COMPUTERS ARE TRANSFERRED TO MEXICO!!!

STEP FIVE -   DELIVERY OF ALL THE COMPUTERS -- FROM
CANADA AND MEXICO -- TO CUBA

This caravan (Friendshipment VI) will not be complete until the 395
computers are delivered to the churches, clinics and hospitals in Cuba. 
The General Board of Church and Society will announce the date for
the delivery of the computers to Cuba; probably in June 1996.

As you can see, the campaign is not complete just because the fast is
ended.  The fasters were able to end their fast only because they felt
confident that you would not stop working for the completion of the
campaign.  WE PLEAD WITH YOU TO KEEP CALLING:

THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT:   SECRETARY RUBIN:
     202/622-1100 or -1080

THE WHITE HOUSE: LEON PANETTA:     202/456-6797

THANK THEM FOR THE POSITIVE STEPS WHICH HAVE BEEN
TAKEN -- AND INSIST THAT THE COMPUTERS BE ALLOWED
PASSAGE TO CUBA WITHOUT A LICENSE.

DON'T STOP NOW!  ONLY WITH YOUR CONTINUED
PARTICIPATION IN KEEPING UP THE PRESSURE WILL WE
SOON CELEBRATE SUCCESS!!  IT'S NOT OVER UNTIL THE
COMPUTERS ARE IN CUBA!!


We also ask that you write or fax MESSAGES OF THANKS AND
COMMENDATION to:

CONGRESSMAN CHARLES RANGEL, for his courage, his
heartfelt commitment, and his tireless leadership in mediating this
agreement with Treasury.  His address is:
     
Congressman Charles Rangel, Rayburn Building, Washington, D.C.
20515
 
DR. THOM WHITE WOLF FASSETT, for giving strong
ecumenical leadership in resolving this matter, for hosting the fasters,
and for making the commitment to send the computers to Cuba without
requesting a license!  His address is:   

     Dr. Thom White Wolf Fassett, General Secretary, General
Board of Church and Society, United Methodist Church, 100 Maryland
Avenue, NE, Washington, DC 20002


         
*****************************************************


IFCO would like to take this opportunity to express its profound
appreciation to Dr. Thom Fassett in particular, to the Board of Church
and Society in general, and to all of our ecumenical partners for their
efforts in achieving the successful resolution which will lead us to the
victory!  

For their prophetic vision and strong support, we give thanks to:

The Most Rev. Edmond L. Browning, Presiding Bishop of the
Episcopal Church 
Dr. Bennett W. Smith, Sr., President, Progressive National Baptist
Convention
Dr. Aidsand Wright-Riggins, Director, National Ministries, American
Baptist Churches/USA
Dr. Joan Brown Campbell, General Secretary, National Council of
Churches of Christ
Dr. Randolph Nugent, General Secretary, General Board of Church
and Society, United      Methodist Church
Bishop Richard O. Bass, Ecumenical Officer, Christian Methodist
Episcopal Church


      ****************************************************


Finally, let us all remember the next phase of the long-range work
which remains before us.  During the 94 days of the Fast for Life, we
have witnessed the beginning of a powerful new coalition: a new, more
mainstream coalition which is committed to working for an end to the
U.S. blockade of Cuba and for normalization of U.S./Cuba relations. 
For our future work, we can count on the nation's most influential
mainstream religious leadership; centrist Cuban-American groups;
labor and professional organizations; more than 70 members of
Congress; and hundreds of thousands of citizens of conscience in all
parts of our nation and the world -- to act more prophetically for more
humane relations with our neighbors in Cuba.  


.
<hr>29/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=28&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-373</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-303</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c30 194.10.201.200 19970108031951 text/html 479
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:19:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 322
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=30">  Article </a><hr>30/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-374</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-364</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=30 194.10.201.200 19970108032038 text/html 7936
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:19:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 7778
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Message from Rev. WAlker -- Fast fo
Date: 28 May 1996 20:35:18

Subject:       Message from Rev. WAlker -- Fast for Life

the interreligious foundation for community organization
402 west 145th street, new york, ny 10031  212/926-5757 
fax: 212/926-5842



This memo is an overview of the most recent developments in the
continuing campaign of IFCO/Pastors for Peace to deliver to Cuba,
without a license, the medical computers which U.S. Customs seized
from our volunteers in San Diego on January 31st and February 17th.

We are pleased to tell you that the computers in San Diego have been
RELEASED!!!!  

THANKS BE TO GOD WHO, WITH OUR HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS,  GAVE US THE VICTORY!!!

At 11pm on Friday, May 24th, day 94 of the Fast for Life, Dr. Thom
White Wolf Fassett, General Secretary of the General Board of Church
and Society of the United Methodist Church, signed an agreement with
the U.S. Treasury to achieve the release of the computers into the
custody of the General Board of Church and Society.  Dr. Fassett
authorized two local Methodist pastors in San Diego, The Rev. John
Lurvey and The Rev. James Jones, to act as his representatives.  Revs.
Jones and Lurvey supervised the transfer of the computers to a storage
facility rented by the Board of Church and Society.  The keys for the
storage facility are now in the pastors' possession.

At midnight on Friday, May 24 -- day 94 of the Fast for Life --  Rev.
Lucius Walker, Lisa Valanti and Jim Clifford ended their fast in a brief
service of celebration and thanksgiving in the Methodist Building. 

YOUR EFFORTS HAVE MADE THE DIFFERENCE!!!  BUT THE
CAMPAIGN IS NOT OVER.  WE HAVE COMPLETED ONLY
TWO STEPS OF A FIVE STEP PROCESS -- AND WHILE
NEGOTIATIONS CONTINUE, WE MUST KEEP THE PRESSURE
ON!!!  


STEP ONE  -  RELEASE OF THE CANADIAN COMPUTERS
SEIZED IN SAN DIEGO 

On Friday, May 17th, the Canadian computers seized in San Diego
were released to the General Board of Church and Society of the
United Methodist Church and taken to a storage facility in Mexico. 
That evening Brian Rohatyn, the Canadian faster, ended his fast.

STEP TWO  -  RELEASE OF THE U.S. COMPUTERS SEIZED
IN SAN DIEGO 

On Friday, May 24th, the U.S. computers seized in San Diego on
January 31st & February 17th were released into the custody of the
General Board of Church & Society of the United Methodist Church
and put into storage in San Diego pending continued negotiations for
their transfer to Cuba.  Rev. Lucius Walker, Jr., James Clifford and
Lisa Valanti ended their 94-day fast that night.


STEP THREE  -  RELEASE INTO CANADA OF THE 35
COMPUTERS SEIZED AT HIGHGATE, VERMONT ON
FEBRUARY 17th 

On February 17th, Canadian and U.S. citizens attempted to donate 35
computers to Cuba by crossing the U.S./Canadian border at Highgate,
Vermont.  The computers were seized.  THESE COMPUTERS CAN
BE RELEASED THIS WEEK IF WE KEEP THE PRESSURE ON
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE
HOUSE!    

STEP FOUR  -   TRANSFER TO MEXICO OF THE
COMPUTERS NOW IN CUSTODY OF THE GENERAL BOARD
OF CHURCH & SOCIETY OF THE  UNITED METHODIST
CHURCH WHICH ARE BEING HELD IN STORAGE IN SAN
DIEGO

These computers must be transferred to Mexico in preparation for
shipment to Cuba.  In the spirit of the negotiations between the Board
of Church and Society and the Treasury Department, it is likely that
this transfer could happen in a matter of days.  BUT TO INSURE
THIS TRANSFER WE ARE ASKING ALL OUR SUPPORTERS TO
KEEP THE PRESSURE ON BOTH THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE HOUSE!!!

On a previous occasion U.S. Treasury agents broke into a private
storage locker and stole crutches and baby formula which we were
storing for a future caravan.  We know that another break-in is a
possibility; therefore, we must KEEP THE PRESSURE ON UNTIL
THE COMPUTERS ARE TRANSFERRED TO MEXICO!!!

STEP FIVE -   DELIVERY OF ALL THE COMPUTERS -- FROM
CANADA AND MEXICO -- TO CUBA

This caravan (Friendshipment VI) will not be complete until the 395
computers are delivered to the churches, clinics and hospitals in Cuba. 
The General Board of Church and Society will announce the date for
the delivery of the computers to Cuba; probably in June 1996.

As you can see, the campaign is not complete just because the fast is
ended.  The fasters were able to end their fast only because they felt
confident that you would not stop working for the completion of the
campaign.  WE PLEAD WITH YOU TO KEEP CALLING:

THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT:   SECRETARY RUBIN:
     202/622-1100 or -1080

THE WHITE HOUSE: LEON PANETTA:     202/456-6797

THANK THEM FOR THE POSITIVE STEPS WHICH HAVE BEEN
TAKEN -- AND INSIST THAT THE COMPUTERS BE ALLOWED
PASSAGE TO CUBA WITHOUT A LICENSE.

DON'T STOP NOW!  ONLY WITH YOUR CONTINUED
PARTICIPATION IN KEEPING UP THE PRESSURE WILL WE
SOON CELEBRATE SUCCESS!!  IT'S NOT OVER UNTIL THE
COMPUTERS ARE IN CUBA!!


We also ask that you write or fax MESSAGES OF THANKS AND
COMMENDATION to:

CONGRESSMAN CHARLES RANGEL, for his courage, his
heartfelt commitment, and his tireless leadership in mediating this
agreement with Treasury.  His address is:
     
Congressman Charles Rangel, Rayburn Building, Washington, D.C.
20515
 
DR. THOM WHITE WOLF FASSETT, for giving strong
ecumenical leadership in resolving this matter, for hosting the fasters,
and for making the commitment to send the computers to Cuba without
requesting a license!  His address is:   

     Dr. Thom White Wolf Fassett, General Secretary, General
Board of Church and Society, United Methodist Church, 100 Maryland
Avenue, NE, Washington, DC 20002


         
*****************************************************


IFCO would like to take this opportunity to express its profound
appreciation to Dr. Thom Fassett in particular, to the Board of Church
and Society in general, and to all of our ecumenical partners for their
efforts in achieving the successful resolution which will lead us to the
victory!  

For their prophetic vision and strong support, we give thanks to:

The Most Rev. Edmond L. Browning, Presiding Bishop of the
Episcopal Church 
Dr. Bennett W. Smith, Sr., President, Progressive National Baptist
Convention
Dr. Aidsand Wright-Riggins, Director, National Ministries, American
Baptist Churches/USA
Dr. Joan Brown Campbell, General Secretary, National Council of
Churches of Christ
Dr. Randolph Nugent, General Secretary, General Board of Church
and Society, United      Methodist Church
Bishop Richard O. Bass, Ecumenical Officer, Christian Methodist
Episcopal Church


      ****************************************************


Finally, let us all remember the next phase of the long-range work
which remains before us.  During the 94 days of the Fast for Life, we
have witnessed the beginning of a powerful new coalition: a new, more
mainstream coalition which is committed to working for an end to the
U.S. blockade of Cuba and for normalization of U.S./Cuba relations. 
For our future work, we can count on the nation's most influential
mainstream religious leadership; centrist Cuban-American groups;
labor and professional organizations; more than 70 members of
Congress; and hundreds of thousands of citizens of conscience in all
parts of our nation and the world -- to act more prophetically for more
humane relations with our neighbors in Cuba.  


.
<hr>30/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=29&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-375</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B020-408</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c31 194.10.201.200 19970108032121 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:20:45 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ssharfman@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=31">  Article </a><hr>31/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-376</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-33</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=31 194.10.201.200 19970108032203 text/html 2437
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:21:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2279
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ssharfman@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Tiananmen Masscre
Date: 28 May 1996 21:58:29

Summary: Calender of Events

BEGIN -- Cut Here -- cut here
From:             susharfman@igc.apc.org
To:               aiusa-ncal@igc.apc.org, chinatibet-activists@igc.apc.org
Date sent:                 Tue, 21 May 1996 22:50:10 +0000
Subject:                Tiananmen Massacre Memorial
Send reply to:    susharfman@igc.apc.org
Copies to:        ssharfman@igc.apc.org
Priority:         normal

WE SHALL NOT FORGET

Memorial for the June 4th Tiananmen Square Massacre

Saturday June 1

Noon-Funeral Procession from Chinese Consulate (Geary and Laguna) to 
San Francisco Chinatown

2pm- Wreath Laying Ceremony-Portsmouth Square (corner of Kearny and 
Washington), San Francisco

3pm-Human Rights Forum-Holiday Inn-Portsmouth Square(CoitIII 
Conference Room), Kearny St. San Francisco

Speakers at Forum:

Todd Carrel-Journalist-ABC News correspondent and Beijing Bureau 
Chief until 1992.

Liu Gang-Chinese Student Activist, recently escaped from China

Harry Wu-Chinese Human Rights Activist, Executive Director, Laogai 
Foundation

Tuesday, June 4

8pm-Candlelight Vigil-Chinese Consulate, Geary and Laguna, 
San Francisco

Sponsored by the Tiananmen Massacre Commemoration Committee

Alliance for a Democratic China-(ADC)
Alliance of Hong Kong Chinese in the United States-(AHKCUS)
Chinese Democratic Education Foundation-(CDEF)
Federation for a Democratic China-(FDC)
Silicon Valley for Democracy in China-(SVDC)
Support Democracy in China-(SDC)
with assistance from Amnesty International

Mission Statement: We join together to commemorate those who 
sacrificed themselves on June 4, 1989 in pursuit of freedom, 
democracy and human rights. We call for the immediate and 
unconditional release of all political prisoners. 

END -- Cut Here -- cut here
.
<hr>31/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=30&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-377</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-72</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c32 194.10.201.200 19970108032242 text/html 483
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:22:05 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 326
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: support4@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=32">  Article </a><hr>32/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-378</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-124</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=32 194.10.201.200 19970108032325 text/html 3316
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:22:47 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3158
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: support4@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Connections '96
Date: 29 May 1996 10:09:06 -0800 (PST)

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Mon, 27 May 1996 14:57:56 -0400
From: MARIJA DALBELLO-LOVRIC  DALBELLO@fis.utoronto.ca 

                       CONNECTIONS '96
    THE SECOND GREAT LAKES INFORMATION SCIENCE CONFERENCE


                      CALL FOR ABSTRACTS

  A doctoral student conference hosted by the Faculty of Information
Studies at the University of Toronto will be held on 25-26 October,
1996. We are interested in the submission of a wide range of papers
in the field of information studies and related disciplines for
presentation at the Conference. These topics might include but are
not limited to:


   abstracting and indexing
   archival theory and practice
   authorship
   history of publishing and reading
   information management
   information needs and users
   information policy
   information retrieval
   information systems
   Internet and multi-media
   knowledge organization
   management of information organizations
   media and communication studies
   museum studies



  The Conference will provide a forum for the exchange of research
among doctoral students and faculty from the library and information
studies schools in the Great Lakes region. Two invited speakers
will address the attendees and a number of events are planned in
connection with the  conference.

  Please submit an abstract of no more than 250 words by August 1,
1996. Both hard copy (3 copies) and electronic mail submissions are
accepted. Reports of research in progress as well as recently
completed studies are welcome. Presentations will be limited to
fifteen minutes, with a five-minute question period to follow.
Abstracts will be blind refereed by doctoral students and faculty
members at the host institution. Presenters will be notified of the
status of their abstract by September 25, and will receive reviewers'
rating sheets together with their notification of acceptance. The
abstracts will be printed in a proceedings volume to be available
at the Conference. Abstracts will also be published in a forthcoming
issue of the Canadian Journal of Information and Library Science.
Further information about the conference and an online registration
form are available at:

  <a href=http://www.fis.utoronto.ca/conferences/connections96/index.htm>http://www.fis.utoronto.ca/conferences/connections96/index.htm</a>

  Abstracts and queries can be (e)mailed to Louise Spiteri at:
  E-Mail: connect@fis.utoronto.ca
  Connections '96
  The Second Great Lakes Information Science Conference
  Faculty of Information Studies
  University of Toronto
  140 St. George St.
  Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G6
.
<hr>32/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=31&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-379</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-171</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c33 194.10.201.200 19970108032408 text/html 479
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:23:28 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 322
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=33">  Article </a><hr>33/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-380</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-227</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=33 194.10.201.200 19970108032452 text/html 3180
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:24:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 3022
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Media Advisory for FAST for LIFE
Date: 29 May 1996 21:37:47


IFCO/Pastors for Peace 
MEDIA ADVISORY

FOR IMMEDIATE DISTRIBUTION:               May 29,
1996
In DC:   Ellen Bernstein, Jim Mellor:  (202) 488-5646, (202) 544-3825; pager
(202) 886-7369
In San Diego:   Andrea Saenz  (619) 582-8288; (619) 286-3004
In NYC:  (212) 926-5757    In Minneapolis:  (612) 870-7121

PRESS CONFERENCE     
Thursday,  May 30,      11:30 a.m.
Rayburn House Office Building, Room B318

An historic 94-day fast by Rev. Lucius Walker, Lisa Valanti and Jim
Clifford ended in victory on 5/24 when the Treasury Department agreed
to release 360 used medical computers which it had seized in January and
February when IFCO/Pastors for Peace volunteers attempted to take
them to Cuba without a license.  The computers have been released to the
custody of the General Board of Church and Society of the United
Methodist Church, which expects to be able to ship them soon to Cuba --
without requesting a license.

In a time when the U.S. government is tightening restrictions against
Cuba, more than 70 members of Congress have spoken out for the release
of these computers, and for easing of the blockade on humanitarian aid to
Cuba.  They represent one facet of a broad new coalition -- which also
includes mainline religious denominations, labor and professional groups,
Cuban-American groups and hundreds of thousands of grassroots citizens
-- who favor easing or ending U.S. aid and trade restrictions against
Cuba.

SPEAKERS will include:

REP. CHARLES A. RANGEL (D-NY), who was instrumental in
mediating the agreement between Treasury and the United Methodist
Church for release of the computers;

REPS. SAM FARR (D-CA), JERROLD NADLER (D-NY), MAJOR
OWENS (D-NY), NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), MARTIN SABO (D-
MN), ESTEBAN TORRES (D-NY), MIKE WARD (D-KY),
MAXINE WATERS (D-CA), and others of the 70 members of
Congress who actively advocated to the Treasury Department and the
Clinton Administration for release of the computers;

REV. LUCIUS WALKER, JR., Executive Director of the Interreligious
Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO)/Pastors for Peace, who
just completed a 94-day fast to secure the release of the computers; and 

DR. THOM WHITE WOLF FASSETT, General Secretary of the
General Board of Church and Society of the United Methodist Church,
which took custody of the IFCO/Pastors for Peace computers and which
intends -- along with other national church agencies -- to send the
computers to Cuban health care facilities without requesting a license.
-30-

.
<hr>33/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=32&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-381</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-282</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c34 194.10.201.200 19970108032531 text/html 483
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:24:56 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 326
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: peacenet@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=34">  Article </a><hr>34/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-382</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-315</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=34 194.10.201.200 19970108032617 text/html 1748
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:25:36 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1590
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: peacenet@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: T/T's posted at igc
Date: 30 May 1996 10:31:00 -0800 (PST)

             <<< Info-Compass -- May 30th - June 2nd, 1996  >>>
 
 Message from Rev. WAlker -- Fast for Life .............. pn.announcements
 
AIUSA: Death Penalty Institute ................................. ai.general
Big Mt. Spr Gathering Statement ................................ indig.info
DESIP: Addendum #1-- June ................................. 96 gen.opinions
IPS: Free Trade Unhealthy ..................................... labr.global
Female Genital Mutilation -- Grounds for Asylum? .............. hrnet.women
Migrant Women Workers Face Violence ............................ women.labr
NGLS Roundup, March 96 .......................................... ngls.news
Series: American NewSpeak #32 [Tobacco Co.s Fight Teen Smoking] .... p.news
Trade News 5-28-96 [U.S. Proposes Trade-Labor Link] ............ trade.news
ViW: Resp. to Iraq food/oil deal ........................... mideast.action
___________________________________________________________________________
   All the above topics can also be found in the "headlines" conference.
.
<hr>34/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=33&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-383</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B021-369</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c35 194.10.201.200 19970108032708 text/html 733
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:26:28 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 576
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: support4@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -


1.  QUOTE OF THE WEEK
"Teachers and students aren't defined geographically, SO education isn't
determined by where you live or how much money you have."  Tom Layton,
teacher at CyberSchool in Eugene, Oregon, on high school students earning
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=35">  Article </a><hr>35/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-384</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B022-5</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=35 194.10.201.200 19970108032751 text/html 7046
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:27:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6888
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: support4@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Children Now Update
Date: 30 May 1996 12:23:28 -0800 (PST)

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 29 May 1996 03:11:10 -0700
From: children@hopf.dnai.com
To: childnow@DNAI.Com


*******************
CHILDREN NOW UPDATE
May 28, 1996
*******************




1.  QUOTE OF THE WEEK
"Teachers and students aren't defined geographically, <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> education isn't
determined by where you live or how much money you have."  Tom Layton,
teacher at CyberSchool in Eugene, Oregon, on high school students earning
credit on the Internet.  From USA Today, May 8, 1996.


2. EDUCATION POLL
A recent week-long series of articles in USA Today highlighted the state of
education in the U.S. The series featured a poll conducted by the newspaper
of both public elementary and secondary school parents and students.  Among
the most often mentioned complaints were overcrowding, dirty restrooms,
classroom temperature, computer time, substandard science labs, and rundown
gyms and fields.  38% of parents say their child's school is too crowded
while 30% say that the school's computers don't meet their children's
needs.  Secondary school students biggest complaint was that there was not
enough computer time for students (55%). Elementary students echoed that
sentiment as 42% said there wasn't enough computer time.

The USA Today series "A Quest for Excellence" series ran May 13, 1996
through May 17, 1996.  The results of the poll, which was done by USA
Today, appeared May 14, 1996


3.  CHILD SUPPORT:
A recent report by child advocates found that California's child support
system is worsening in both effectiveness and efficiency, thus failing to
serve most of the 3.5 million children involved in its child support
system.  Past Due:  Child Support Collection in California -- a report by
Children Now, National Center for Youth Law and the Child Support Reform
Initiative --found that California's child support collections dropped by
30% in the past five years.  The report called for moving collection
responsibility from the 58 county District Attorneys to the state Franchise
Tax Board and for adopting a unified, statewide administrative process to
handle more of the cases outside of the courts.

The report notes that an effective child support enforcement system would
reduce both the number of families who rely on welfare and the nation's
high rate of children living in poverty.

For more information, contact Amy Abraham, Children Now at 1-800-CHILD-44
or Leora Gershenzon, National Center for Youth Law at (415) 543-3307.


4.  THESE CHILDREN HAVE FACES
The organization, "These Children Have Faces" was started by a St. Paul
woman who was concerned and angry about proposed budget cuts of the 104th
Congress.  She called together a group of friends and activists to come up
with a positive idea of what they could do.  They came up with a simple and
effective plan--to collect photos of children from people who love them,
deliver the photos to Congress and make sure the senders register and vote
in November, 1996.

"These Children Have Faces" is working with the Coalition of America's
Children (which represents 300 national organizations including the
Children's Defense Fund, Junior League, PTA, Kiwanis, and Children Now) and
is hoping to gather hundreds of thousands of photographs of children in an
effort to persuade Congress to rethink proposed cuts in funding for
programs that aid low-income children.

To participate in the program, simply send in a picture, a note about the
child in the picture and a $1 contribution.  You are also welcome to make
additional contributions.

Please make checks payable to Women's Consortium and mail to:

These Children Have Faces
46 East Fourth Street, Suite 830
St. Paul, MN 55101

Be sure to write your name, address and phone number and sign it indicating
that the picture (no name or address) may be sent to Congress and/or the
State Legislature.

5.  MEDIA CONFERENCE
In early May, Children Now convened a group of the top television
advertisers in the nation to discuss their role in improving the quality of
television watched by children.  The conference focused on how advertisers
can and do influence the content of full-length programming, including
shows made especially for children as well as prime time and afternoon
shows watched by kids.

Our gathering, held at Stanford University May 1-3, also included
television producers, network executives, representatives from advertising
agencies, academics, and children's advocates.  FCC Chairman Reed Hundt,
Disney/ABC Cable president Geraldine Laybourne and Harvard University child
psychiatrist Alvin Poussaint all addressed attendees.  A full report from
the conference will be available in early July.


6.  TEEN PREGNANCY AND CHILD ABUSE
In a recent report, Bronwyn Mayden, director of the Child Welfare League of
America (CWLA), argues that there is a connection between teen pregnancy
and child abuse and that little has been written about the impact of child
sexual abuse on the victim's long-term development, physical and emotional
health, sexual identity, and reproductive decisions.  Mayden cites a 1992
report by the American Medical Association that estimates 61% of all U.S.
victims of sexual assault are under the age of 18, proving that most of the
sexual violence that occurs in this country is directed against children.
U.S. Bureau of Justice figures for the same year revealed that one of every
six rape victims is under 12, and 80% of all sexual assaults against
children are committed by family members, friends, and acquaintances.
Mayden states that compared to their non-abused counterparts, young women
who have been abused initiate sexual activity at a younger age, are more
sexually active, and are less likely to use contraception.  The predictable
result is too-early childbearing.

For more information on this topic, please see the Handsnet web site at
<a href=http://www.handsnet.org/handsnet.>http://www.handsnet.org/handsnet.</a>




- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
TO COMMUNICATE WITH CHILDREN NOW:  Send e-mail to: children@dnai.com

TO UNSUBSCRIBE FROM THIS LIST:     Send e-mail to: majordomo@dnai.com with
the
                                   message: unsubscribe childnow

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


.
<hr>35/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=34&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-385</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B022-52</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c36 194.10.201.200 19970108032835 text/html 484
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:27:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 327
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: MOONLIGHT@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=36">  Article </a><hr>36/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-386</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B022-98</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=36 194.10.201.200 19970108032921 text/html 3045
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:28:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2887
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: MOONLIGHT@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Warren Christopher SAMPLE LETTER
Date: 30 May 1996 20:32:25



-------------- Enclosure number 1 ----------------
 Secretary of State Warren Christopher
2201 C. St. NW
Washington, D.C.  20520



Dear Sir,

     We, the undersigned wish to express a high level of concern
about the growing crisis in Mexico and the real possibility of
the outbreak of hostilities once again in the southeast state of
Chiapas.  The growing evidence of human rights violations, links
to drug trafficking on a high governmental level, and the
continued impunity of paramilitary groups, have provoked a
massive exodus of families seeking relief from the political and
economic crisis.
     Because Mexico is our closest neighbor in Latin America we
cannot remain silent before the consequences of this crisis.  We
therefore request the response of the State Department in terms
of the following issues;

      1) We understand that Mexico is receiving substantial
military equipment  from the United States.  Although the
objective of these sales is said to be aid in the drug war, we
request information about the guarantees which exist that this
equipment will not be used for other purposes such as
counterinsurgency  and government responses to civil unrest.
This equipment includes the recent sale of 73 Huey helicopters.
We are also interested in clearly understanding the current
working relationships to both train the Mexican military and
replace any weapons ten years or older for the Mexican Army.
     2) We request any current information on the state of
human
rights in Mexico.  Specifically we need to know current
governmental responses to paramilitary groups and/or "deaths
quads", and to the protection of the human rights of the 18
individuals presently jailed under accusation of being members
of the rebel group in Chiapas, the Zapatistas.
     3)  We request any information which the State Department
may have about the possible breakdown of the peace talks in
Chiapas, Mexico.

     We strongly affirm our commitment to a peaceful solution
and a transition to democracy for Mexico.  We do not believe
that our southern border can bear the economic and humanitarian
brunt of a growing and debilitating political and economic
crisis in Mexico. We urge your prompt response and look forward
to policies which strengthen the possibilities for peace in
Mexico.  Thank you for your attention.

Respectfully,




.
<hr>36/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=35&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-387</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B022-142</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c37 194.10.201.200 19970108033000 text/html 483
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:29:24 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 326
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: peacenet@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=37">  Article </a><hr>37/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-388</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B023-33</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=37 194.10.201.200 19970108033051 text/html 2057
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:30:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1899
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: peacenet@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message
Date: 02 Jun 1996 21:57:30 -0800 (PST)

____________________________________________________________________________
              ------ Info-Compass - June 2nd - 5th, 1996 ------

These Headlines Now on the Web! ---> <a href=http://www.igc.org/peacenet/headlines/>http://www.igc.org/peacenet/headlines/</a>

ANC News Wednesday 22 May 1996 [Gay Rights Guaranteed] ...... gen.gaylesbian
6-96 Electronic Slavery Growing in Prisons ..................... peoplestrib
Gritz, Grodin, and Garbage .................................. pol.right.docs
Haiti Info v.4 #15 IMF in Haiti .................................. reg.carib
IPS: ISRAEL-POLITICS: New Signposts on Post-Election Road ..... mideast.news
IPS: Mexican Recovery? ........................................... econ.saps
Media Beat: Kathie Lee, Disney and the Sweatshop Uproar ....... media.issues
Mitsubishi Sex Harassement/An Industry Problem .................. women.labr
SG in Turkey [UN Leads on Global Issues] ......................... unic.news
Unocal Protest Media Release [Burma Pipeline] ............. en.announcements
WILPF's Corporate Welfare Kings .............................. wilpf.hotline
User Support Info by E-mail ........................................... help
____________________________________________________________________________
   All the above topics can also be found in the "headlines" conference.
.
<hr>37/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=36&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-389</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B023-79</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c38 194.10.201.200 19970108033144 text/html 479
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:30:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 322
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=38">  Article </a><hr>38/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-390</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B023-117</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=38 194.10.201.200 19970108033232 text/html 4671
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:31:53 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 4513
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: FAST for LIFE UPDATE -- Congression
Date: 01 Jun 1996 20:02:52

Subject:       FAST for LIFE UPDATE -- Congressional support


                     MEDIA STATEMENT
                 IFCO/Pastors for Peace 

FOR IMMEDIATE DISTRIBUTION:        May 31, 1996
CONTACT, In DC:  Ellen Bernstein, Ed Newman   (202) 488-5646 or 544-3825 
pager: (202) 886-7369
In NYC:   (212) 926-5757      In Minneapolis:  (612) 870-7121

         MEMBERS OF CONGRESS PRAISE  FASTERS AND RELIGIOUS LEADERS.
     ENCOURAGE  ARRIVAL OF COMPUTERS IN CUBA FOLLOWING RELEASE FROM U.S. CUSTOMS.
 
              Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY) and many congressional colleagues gathered
at a Washington press conference on Thursday to celebrate the
conclusion of the 94-day  Fast for Life  waged by Pastors for Peace.  The
fast, led by Rev. Lucius Walker, ended last Friday after the Treasury
Department released the used medical computers seized by U.S. Customs
in January and February en route to Cuba.  Pastors for Peace, who
consider the U.S. economic blockade of Cuba as immoral, was taking this
humanitarian aid, without requesting a license, to Cuban clinics and
hospitals. 

On behalf of his colleagues, Rangel thanked the fasters and the religious
leaders who supported them for  allowing us to have the opportunity to
participate in what was a moral and spiritual adventure.  Your sacrifice
and courage was a victory for morality over politics.  Like most
Americans, I don t believe that we should hurt God s children for a
couple of votes.    Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) elaborated,  Why does it
take a group of conscientious citizens nearly starving themselves to death
at the doorstep of our nation s capitol to bring a little reason to our
foreign policy?   Nadler, one of more than 70 members of Congress, who
advocated for the release of the medical equipment, is the sponsor of
legislation that would end the U.S. embargo on medicines, medical
supplies and equipment.     Depriving citizens of medicine is not moral, it
is not right and it is inconsistent with the values of the American people ,
he added.

Rep. Rangel also noted how impressed he was with  the strong support of
the many national religious denominations who came forward to offer
their help.  This is the making of a new ecumenical coalition to address
the moral issues around our policy on Cuba.    

Dr. Thom White Wolf Fassett, General Secretary of the General Board of
Church and Society of the United Methodist Church was present on
behalf of the consortium of religious associations.  Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-
CA) explained that  the computers have been released to the United
Methodist Church, who now hold title, until their expected shipment to
Cuba.    Fassett, who has ensured their transport, told reporters that he
will keep U.S.  officials advised as to how the computers are being used. 
He stated that the United Methodist Church has  supplied the Treasury
Department with information related to the use of the computers in the
Cuban health-care system that qualifies their humanitarian use.   He
thanked Treasury Secretary Rubin and Assistant Secretary Johnson for
 their support and their openness and approachability to discuss and
resolve this issue. 

All of the members of Congress who were present joined Rep. Rangel in
urging the Treasury Department to move quickly to facilitate delivery of
the medical equipment.  Said Rangel,  We have every confidence that the
Treasury Department will not stand in the way of allowing these
computers to arrive in Cuba. 

Rev. Walker expressed sincere thanks on behalf of his fellow fasters to
the members of Congress, religious leaders and thousands of grassroots
supporters.   Together, we have accomplished a lot with this fast.  We
have given new hope to the Cuban people on behalf of all Americans who
work for peace in the world.   ###
CONTACT:
In DC:
Ellen Bernstein - IFCO: 202-488-5646, beeper 202-886-7369
Ed Newman - P4P Media:  202-544-3825
In NY:
Emily Thomas - IFCO:  212-926-5757
In San Diego - P4P Media:  619-295-8769
.
<hr>38/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=37&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-391</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B023-163</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c39 194.10.201.200 19970108033311 text/html 1267
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:32:34 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1109
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
     Treasury Department and Customs officials
had insisted that PFP or some other group apply
for and receive an export license, even if the
Rev. Walker and his group refused to do SO.  The
agreement for their release calls for a coalition
of national church partners to store the
- - - -
     "The U.S. government has pursued a policy of
death pursuant to Cuba for more than half of my
life," the Rev. Walker said, at a Capitol Hill
press conference May 2, explaining why he was SO
adamant.  He was flanked by Reps. Charles Rangel
(D-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA), Esteban Torres (D-CA),
- - - -
care system that is considered a "model" by
health professionals. The exemplary medical
system may be one reason why U.S. officials have
been SO inflexible, according to one health
source.

- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=39">  Article </a><hr>39/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-392</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B024-44</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=39 194.10.201.200 19970108033400 text/html 13539
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:33:14 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13380
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ifco@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: Askia Muhammad on Fast for Life
Date: 30 May 1996 21:33:06

ACTION ALERT


1)  You can be a significant help in our continuing quest to
get the story of the Fast for Life into the mainstream media. 
We want to ask you to help us place an article about the Fast
in your most important local media outlet.  We're even
supplying you with the article:  a well-written, sympathetic,
comprehensive and articulate piece by Askia Muhammad
(writer/commentator/reporter for Pacifica, NPR, and several
print media outlets; you may have heard his recent commentary
on the Fast which played on Monitor Radio).  We think Askia's
article is a strong representation of this campaign, and we'd
be pleased to have it receive broad circulation.    

If you are receiving this message via e-mail, the Askia
Muhammad article follows.  If you don't have e-mail
capability, we will fax the article to you if you will call
us and let us know that you want to receive it.  Since it's
4 pages long, we'd rather not winfax to everyone; but we'll
gladly send it if you can use it!  
(We're also working on completing an op-ed piece about the
Fast.  Call us in Washington -- 202/488-5646 or -5654 (phone)
or 202/886-7369 (pager) -- if you think you can place an op-
ed piece in your local paper.)


2)  KEEP CALLING WASHINGTON!!!
We still want to be optimistic about steps 3 and 4 -- the
release of the Highgate computers and the transfer of the San
Diego computers into Mexico -- BUT THESE STEPS WON'T HAPPEN
UNLESS THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT KNOWS WE'RE STILL OUT HERE
KEEPING THE PRESSURE ON.  Ask everyone you know to make a
commitment to make A PHONE CALL EVERY DAY TO TREASURY.

     Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin  202/622-1100, -1080
     White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta  202/456-6797
	(DNC # and state chairs?-jm)


3)  TODAY'S NEWS FROM WASHINGTON:  a wonderful press
conference affirming the Fast, called by Rep. Charles A. Rangel and attended by Reps.
Bill Coyne (D-PA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY),
Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Jose Serrano (D-
NY), Esteban Torres (D-CA), Mike Ward (D-KY), Maxine Waters
(D-CA).  Let's continue to thank supportive congressional
reps for their work!

4) We need to make A CORRECTION to our last action alert --
the three-page document which describes the five steps of our
campaign to get the computers released.  On page 3, where the
participating church partners are listed, there's an important 
error which we want to correct.  Please note that
Dr. Randolph Nugent is general secretary of the GENERAL BOARD
OF GLOBAL MINISTRIES of the United Methodist Church, NOT the
General Board of Church and Society.  Global Ministries is
a distinct board of the United Methodist Church, which is
headquartered in New York, and which has given substantial
support to IFCO through the years of our history.  Their
omission was a typo brought on by sleep deprivation; we
certainly want to affirm their participation in this historic
agreement and in all of IFCO's work.  PLEASE make this
correction in your copy of this five-step document; and if
you plan to make copies or distribute the document in any
way, please call us in Washington -- 202/488-5646 or -5654
(phone) or 202/886-7369 (pager) -- and let us fax you a
corrected copy!  
THANKS. 

(b.) Askiya:
Pastors For Peace--5-29-96


Fasting Pastors for Peace
Win Release of Computers

by Askia Muhammad

     WASHINGTON--Republican Presidential
candidate Bob Dole easily made headlines in Miami
recently by promising to: "bring Fidel Castro
down and end his reign of terror."  Less than a
week later, a Black Baptist preacher and two
companions ended a vigil in near obscurity,
literally in the shadow of the U.S. Capitol,
claiming victory in their effort to help Mr.
Castro's island nation.

     At midnight, Saturday morning May 25 (9:00
p.m. Pacific Time May 24), the end of Day 94 of
their "Fast for Life," the Rev. Lucius Walker,
Jr., leader of Pastors for Peace (PFP), Lisa
Valanti and Jim Clifford savored a rice broth at
a special service of thanksgiving surrounded by
religious leaders, congressional staff aides, and
members of their support team.

     At that moment 374 computers destined for
Cuban hospitals and health clinics were being
released to the custody of the General Board of
Church and Society of the United Methodist Church
(UMC) at a private storage facility maintained by
the U.S. Customs Agency in San Diego.

     "We are thankful to God and to the hundreds
of thousands of supporters who never gave up the
struggle to free the computers," the Rev. Walker
said as he ended his fast.  The hunger strike had
begun Feb. 21, to protest the seizure of 397
outmoded and obsolete by U.S. standards "286" and
"XT" computers by Customs officials in late
January.

     "Together we have made an effort to appeal
to the soul and integrity of our nation," he
said.  "Our efforts have not been in vain, but
much work remains.  The new broad coalition which
has grown around the Fast will keep working to
send these computers on to Cuba.  And as the
coalition grows, we will keep working together
for a more humane policy toward Cuba.

     "The release of these computers was made
possible by the active support of hundreds of
thousands of people of conscience in all parts of
the U.S.," the Rev. Walker said, expressing
"special gratitude for the committed work of
Congressman Charles A. Rangel (D-NY), whose
tireless advocacy helped seal this victory."

     Just one week earlier, 23 other computers
were released.  All of the first machines
released are of Canadian origin and are stored 
in Mexico in preparation for shipment to Cuba.

     Treasury Department and Customs officials
had insisted that PFP or some other group apply
for and receive an export license, even if the
Rev. Walker and his group refused to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>.  The
agreement for their release calls for a coalition
of national church partners to store the
computers in the U.S. pending completion of
arrangements to transfer them to Cuba without
requesting a license.  The coalition includes six
national mainline denominations and the National
Council of Churches.

     "We are optimistic that this medical aid
will soon be exported for humanitarian use in
Cuba," Dr. Thom White Wolf Fassett, General
Secretary of the UMC General Board of Church and
Society, said. 

     In a May 17 letter to Rep. Rangel, who
mediated the dialogue between PFP and the
government, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin
expressed concern for the welfare of those
participating in the fast and said that within
the existing laws, there are "procedural avenues"
available for the Rev. Walker to achieve his
goals, and end the fast.

     "The U.S. government has pursued a policy of
death pursuant to Cuba for more than half of my
life," the Rev. Walker said, at a Capitol Hill
press conference May 2, explaining why he was <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a>
adamant.  He was flanked by Reps. Charles Rangel
(D-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA), Esteban Torres (D-CA),
William Coyne (D-PA), and by staff members from
the offices of Reps. Ron Dellums (D-CA) and Bobby
Rush (D-IL), some of more than 70 members of
Congress who signed letters to support the "Fast
for Life."

     "People have to make a decision whether or
not they will be complicit with the policy of
death toward Cuba. I refuse to be complicit. I
would rather give my life engaging in this
simplest act of kindness, rather than lose my
soul," he said.

     The donated computers will be used to help
build an on-line medical information network for
the island nation, which already boasts a health
care system that is considered a "model" by
health professionals. The exemplary medical
system may be one reason why U.S. officials have
been <a name=L10003></a><a href=#L10004>so</a> inflexible, according to one health
source.

     "It is often said that Cuba is no longer a
threat to the U.S.," Diane Kuntz, Staff Associate
for International Health for the 50,000-member
American Public Health Association (APHA), said
in a statement. Cuba, she said, "is a threat. The
threat is the example Cuba offers of a country
with the political will to provide good health
care to all its citizens.

     "The U.S. is fighting this threat, using
food, medicine and medical supplies as weapons. 
The computers that were confiscated are vital 
components of Cuba's health care system. Many of 
the computers were donated by members of the 
American Public Health Association."

     Racism, plain and simple, is at the root of
U.S. hatred of Cuba, the Rev. Walker, pastor of
Salvation Baptist Church in Brooklyn, NY,
insists, and that's one of the reasons he refuses
to comply with the U.S. embargo by applying for
an export license for items intended for
humanitarian aid.

     On five previous occasions the Rev. Walker
has waged the same struggle with federal
officials. The last confrontation was resolved in
1993 when the government relented after PFP
staged a 23-day hunger strike on board a little
yellow school bus. Customs officials had seized
the bus at a Texas-Mexico border crossing as the
group attempted to ship it to a church in Cuba.

     "It's like Dr. (Martin Luther) King, (Jr.)
and the civil rights movement not being willing
to comply with Jim Crow laws," the Rev. Walker
said of his adamant stand. "I do not apply (for
export licenses) because I do not want to break
the law...the higher law, the moral law of the
universe."

     The U.S. he said, is signatory to the Geneva
accords--the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights--which says that food, medicine, medical
supplies, and other humanitarian aid are not to
be used as weapons.

     "This war against Cuba is a race war," the
Rev. Walker said in an interview, because the
majority of the Cuban population is actually
Afro-Cuban. The majority of the politically
influential anti-Castro Cuban exile community in
Florida, he insists, is made up of white Cubans
who fled when Mr. Castro took power. "If Cuba
were white there would not be a blockade. If
there was one, it would have been over years ago.

     "What crime has Cuba committed? Is it that
the first act of the Cuban government under
Castro's leadership was to officially outlaw
racism? Was its sin that it put the Mafia out and
wouldn't let them rape and exploit the poor? Or
was its sin that it decided to give universal
free education to all Cubans, including Blacks?
Was the sin that it decided to give universal
free health care?" he asked rhetorically.

     "What did Cuba do wrong to deserve this? If
these acts are sins then the U.S. should commit
the same sins." The U.S. travel ban, he said, is
designed to keep people in this country,
especially Blacks, from seeing these truths for
themselves.

     The APHA agrees. "The U.S. national grudge
against Cuba--exemplified by the (1993 and 1996)
tightening of the embargo--is out of step with the 
changes occurring in the
world. The embargo's interference in the Cuban
people's access to food and medicine is
tantamount to the use of food and medicine as a
weapon in the U.S. arsenal against Cuba," APHA
concludes in its report "The Politics of
Suffering: the Impact of the U.S. Embargo on the
Health of the Cuban People."

     By contrast, the Rev. Walker compares
China's status as a Most Favored Nation trading
partner, despite the tens of thousands of
casualties China inflicted on U.S. troops during
the Korean War, and the fast track toward
diplomatic and trade normalization for Vietnam,
despite 58,000 body bags containing U.S. military
personnel sent back from that conflict.

     There have been no U.S. casualties in the
U.S.-Cuban conflict, he said. "When Black folks
realize that this blockade is racist, and that it
affects our `Uncles' and `Aunts' in Cuba, and
then start writing (President Bill) Clinton...
when our Black organizations--the NAACP and
Minister Farrakhan--stand up for Cuba, that will
make the difference."

     The Fast for Life, the Rev. Walker said,
gained many allies in the Christian community,
drawing support from many mainstream
denominations. Representatives of the Progressive
National Baptist Convention, the General Board of
Church and Society of the United Methodist
Church, the Alliance of Baptists, the American
Baptist Churches/USA, the Episcopal Church, the
General Board of Global Ministries of the United
Methodist Church, and the National Council of
Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. have all signed
letters of support.

     "There should be more Jews out here. There
should be more nuns out here. There should be
more Muslims out here," Rep. Rangel said at the
Capitol Hill press conference. "We need more
religious people out here to do the right thing
for Cuba. Our government should not be in the
business of denying humanitarian support to sick
people."

                    # # #--30-30--# # #
.
<hr>39/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=38&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=40&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-393</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B024-94</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c40 194.10.201.200 19970108033442 text/html 816
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:34:02 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 659
</DOCHDR>
<pre>SO: U-vre
From: pnbalkans@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
- - - -
life-style, i.e. their old normality.

One of the things they ask for is to send music, with a preference for
Rock & Roll. SO if you feel like taping along one evening, or getting
rid of old records or even CD's, FEEL FREE to ship it directly to Yoyth
Radio Tuzla, c/o HCA Office, Mrs. Struijk, Titova 1 75000 Tuzla Bosnia.
- - - -
<br><a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=40">  Article </a><hr>40/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-394</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B024-142</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=1-40&menu=1.12&q=so&in=40 194.10.201.200 19970108033524 text/html 1599
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:34:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1441
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: pnbalkans@igc.apc.org
Newsgroups: pn.announcements
Subject: tapes for Tuzla (fwd)
Date: 30 May 1996 22:24:23 -0800 (PST)


|Orig. Date: 15 May 1996 03:16:19
|Orig. From: jo@xs4all.nl
|Orig. To:   zamir.chat  zamir-chat-l@igc.apc.org 
|Orig. Subject: p.s. tapes for Tuzla

The independant Youth Club of Tuzla is trying to set up its own
self-maneged radio station, which could satisfy the desire of youngsters
to either forget their misery, or to groove on signs of western
life-style, i.e. their old normality.

One of the things they ask for is to send music, with a preference for
Rock & Roll. <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>So</a> if you feel like taping along one evening, or getting
rid of old records or even CD's, FEEL FREE to ship it directly to Yoyth
Radio Tuzla, c/o HCA Office, Mrs. Struijk, Titova 1 75000 Tuzla Bosnia.

However, the more secure way is through:
HCA-Holland, PO Box 85893, 
NL 2508 CN, 
Den Haag 
Holland.

thanks for taking trouble
Jo van der Spek
underground agent on the free waves





.
<hr>40/695  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=39&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=41&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-395</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000237-B025-10</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=41-80 194.10.201.200 19970108033612 text/html 6821
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 04:35:28 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6663
</DOCHDR>
<pre>so -- 695 hits<br>

<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c41"> 41</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=41">    79 960531 6/2 DC Action . . .</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c42"> 42</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=42">    33 960604 update on Oventic</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c43"> 43</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=43">   388 960604 International Call to Chiapas(Spani</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c44"> 44</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=44">    22 960606 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c45"> 45</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=45">   259 960606 Electronic Mail4 (fwd)</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c46"> 46</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=46">    92 960606 Elorriaga and Entzin Freed!</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c47"> 47</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=47">    26 960607 Conscientious Objection</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c48"> 48</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=48">    62 960608 Clinton Protest Sunday, 5 p.m.</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c49"> 49</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=49">    25 960610 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c50"> 50</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=50">    63 960611 Youth Delegation to Chiapas and Gua</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c51"> 51</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=51">   194 960612 CONFERENCE ANNOUNCEMENT</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c52"> 52</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=52">    46 960612 Training in Israel - Scholarships</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c53"> 53</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=53">   500 960612 CHC Zagreb</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c54"> 54</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=54">    27 960613 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c55"> 55</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=55">    26 960617 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c56"> 56</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=56">    45 960613 Peru/Berenson Colloquy</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c57"> 57</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=57">    48 960613 SF JUNE 15 MEETING, VIDEO ON LABOR</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c58"> 58</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=58">    11 960614 --> Electoral myths, realities</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c59"> 59</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=59">    54 960617 Olympics & Our Struggles for Justic</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c60"> 60</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=60">   131 960617 Stop US/Canada Nuclear Submarine Tr</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c61"> 61</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=61">    97 960619 Updates: Directory of Network Provi</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c62"> 62</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=62">    25 960620 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c63"> 63</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=63">    33 960620 El Salvador Gay/Lesbian Cultural Ce</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c64"> 64</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=64">    19 960619 activist art exhibit</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c65"> 65</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=65">   130 960621 HELP requested: Blk Am get 18 years</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c66"> 66</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=66">    34 960623 Dying boy wants cards</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c67"> 67</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=67">    34 960624 Dying boy wants cards</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c68"> 68</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=68">    12 960624 Re: Dying boy wants cards</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c69"> 69</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=69">    23 960624 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c70"> 70</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=70">    10 960624 Re: Dying boy wants cards</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c71"> 71</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=71">    67 960624 prop1/press release(6/23)</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c72"> 72</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=72">   187 960625 Resource Person for Congress in Germany???</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c73"> 73</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=73">    26 960627 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c74"> 74</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=74">    24 960701 Re: Banner*Tip*Teaser*Log On Message</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c75"> 75</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=75">   100 960702 0II1E.TXT</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c76"> 76</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=76">   170 960702 Bulletin #4/II, 17-23 June, Bosnian</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c77"> 77</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=77">   525 960702 Bulletin #4/1, 17-23 June, Bosnian</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c78"> 78</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=78">    53 960703 Peace Initiative</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c79"> 79</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=79">    30 960704 Wash.,DC: Janice Shields on Corpora</a>
<a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=c80"> 80</a> <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?rg=41-80&menu=1.12&q=so&in=80">    25 960531 Festival Mundial</a>
<hr>41-80/695    <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=81-120">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-396</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B011-88</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1 194.10.201.200 19970108203745 text/html 16669
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:36:57 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16510
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51
Date: 30 May 1996 10:19:34

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 51
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			May 30, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Global Security Concerns: Anticipating the Twenty-First Century, edited by
Dr. Karl P. Magyar and Lt. Col. Bradley S. David, Air University Press,
Maxwell Air Force Base, March 1996. See Chap. 13, "Conventional Armaments:
Mapping Warfare in the Twenty-First Century" by Mark Browne, pp. 239-258.

  Military Technology, Vol. 20 #4, 4/96, "Quo Vadis, Asian Defence?:
Conventional Arms Proliferation in East/Southeast Asia," pp. 10-12, 14-15.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, April 24, 1996, "GGC [Gulf Cooperation Council] Air
Forces," starts p. 18

  Aerospace Daily, April 30, 1996, "Indonesia's Suharto said to okay F-16
buy," p. 181.
  
  Jane's Intelligence Review, May 1996, "Burma develops its ability to build
arms," pp. 233-235.

  The Atlantic Monthly, May 1996, "Blowback," [The CIA poured billions into
a jihad against Soviet-occupied Afghanistan, creating a militant Islamist
Abraham Lincoln Brigade believed to have been involved in bombings from
Islamabad to New York. Is Bosnia next?],  p. 24, 26-28, and 36.

  The DISAM Journal, of International Security Assistance Management, Vol.
18, No. 3, Spring 1996, "Fiscal Year 1996 Security Assistance Legislation,"
, pp. 19-58.

  Boston Globe, May 9, 1996, "US sees conflict of interest over arms:
Commerce study looks at `offsets'," p. 1.

  The New Yorker, May 13, 1996, "What's the real Iran-Bosnia scandal?," p. 7.

  Defense News, May 13-19, 1996, "Finland Will Barter Missiles for Debt:
Delivery of Air Defense Weapons Would Reduce Russian Obligation," p. 30;
"Mirage Buy to Delay Pakistani Budget Cuts," p. 32.

  Civilian Pawns: Laws of War Violations and the Use of Weapons on the
Israel-Lebanon Border, Human Rights Watch Arms Project and Human Rights
Watch/Middle East, Released May 22, 1996, 142pp.

  Offsets In Defense Trade: A Study Conducted under Section 309 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, As Amended, Prepared By U.S. Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Export Administration, Office of Strategic Industries
and Economic Security, May 21, 1996, (73pp., not counting 4 appendices)

  Washington Post, May 22, 1996, "Specter Says Top Officials Hid Arms
Policy," p. A25.

  Washington Post, May 23, 1996, "U.S. Arrests Suspects With Ties to Chinese
Arms Firms in Gun Smuggling Sting," p. A16.

  New York Times, May 23, 1996, "Chinese Sought In Plot To Import Arms to
the U.S.," p. 1.

  Washington Post, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Executives Indicted in
Smuggling," p. A20.

  Washington Times, May 24, 1996, "Customs agents crack arms-smuggling ring
tied to Chinese VIPs," p. A3; and  "Talbott rebuts Woolsey on Iran-Bosnia
briefing: Tells Hill panel of arms-policy change," p. A11.

  New York Times, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Seized in Undercover Inquiry:
Raids Raise Questions on Officials' Knowledge, and Trade Status," p. A12.

  Washington Post, May 25, 1996, "China Is Asked to Aid Illicit Arms Probe,"
p. A6; and "Sowing Mayhem," [re landmines] [What's on Earth feature], A17.

  Defense News, May 20-26, 1996, " Industry Experts Doubt Russia's Plan To
Become Global Arms Export Force," pp. 42; and "U.K. Makes Final Effort To
Sell Subs to Canada," p. 44.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, May 27, 1996, "U.S. Export Push
Challenges Europeans," pp. 20-22; "$28-Billion Market Targeted by U.S.," p.
20; [for further details about the Clinton Administration's "Showcase Europe
aerospace marketing strategy and its "major projects list" in Western and
Central Europe call Will Fenter at the US Embassy in Paris. Phone # 33 1 43
12 23 18]; and "Sukhoi Upgrades Geared to South Asian Market," p. 57.
  New York Times, May 29, 1996, "Gun-Running in the Balkans: CIA and
Diplomats Collide," p. 1; and "Beijing Vows To Punish Unauthorized Arms
Exports," p. 5

  Wall Street Journal, May 29, 1996, "Ambassador Is In for Grilling Over
Arms Flow: Galbraith Scheduled to Give First Open Testimony On Shipments to
Bosnia," p. A9.

  Defense News, May 27-June 2, 1996, "U.S. Air Force To Certify AEW Hercules
for Export," pp. 4, 36; and "Albania Will Buy 5 U.S. Patrol Boats: Deal
Marks First U.S. Shipment of Equipment to Former East Bloc," p. 16

  Jane's Defence Weekly (Back Issues)
- 20 March 1996, "Brazil to give priority to SIVAM over F-5 upgrade," p. 6;
"Russia talks sales with eight nations," p. 8; "B-2 flypast marks US
presence at Chile airshow," p. 8; "Lockheed Martin confident that USA will
lift [combat] aircraft sale ban [to Latin America]," p. 8; "Hellfire deal
for Norway," p. 12; "First two La Fayettes ready to sail for Taiwan," p. 14;
and "Angola urged to reduce mines," p. 15.
- 27 March 1996, "Dutch join pact against anti-personnel mines," p. 12; and
"Russia in billion dollar arms sales to Iran
- 17 April, 1996, "UAE Navy to take over ex-Dutch Kortenaers," p. 5, "USA
restores grant aid training to Indonesia," p. 27; 
- 24 April, 1996, "UK radar will equip Chinese AEW aircraft," p. 3; "US
exporters face greater offset demands," p. 5; "China is poised to buy third
batch of Su-27s," p. 10
- 1 May 1996, "Cypriot arms build-up continues with T-80 buy," p. 3;
"Boutros-Ghali attacks vicious circle of global arms sales," p. 5; "USA and
Mexico work out UH-1H transfer," p. 8; and "France seeks shake-up of export
policy," p. 25.
- 8 May 1996, "MLU [Mid-Life Update]: Giving a new lease of life to F-16s,"
pp. 26-27;
- 15 May 1996, "Boutros-Ghali criticizes failure to ban landmines," p. 4;
and "USA urged to lift FMS ban [to Latin America], p. 5.
- 22 May 1996, "Global military spending is lowest for 20 years," p. 3; "USA
takes first step in banning anti-personnel mines," [Turkish] F-4E upgrade
accord `close'," p. 12; "Singapore to limit mine exports," p. 14; "S Africa
sales hit $198m," p. 17

 	Land Mines
  Soldiers, May 1996, "Demining Honduras," p. 21.
  Los Angeles Times (Wash. Ed.), May 8, 1996, "Long, Slow War on Land Mines:
Gain at Geneva meeting is just a fraction of what is needed," p. 10.
  Dallas Morning News, May 8, 1996, "Demonstrators rally for land mine ban,"
May 8, 1996, p. 10.
  Washington Post, May 16, 1996, "Clinton Won't Change Land Mine Policy:
President Seeks to Avoid Political Risk in Election Year, Critics Say," p. A11.
  Army Times, May 20, 1996, "Ban the production of land mines," p. 54.
  Washington Post, May 17, 1996, "Clinton Rejects a Ban on Use of Land
Mines," p. A24
  Aerospace Daily, May 17, 1996, "U.S. retains some anti-personnel mines for
Korea scenario," p. 284.
  Wall Street Journal, May 17, 1996, "Killing Fields: Land Mines Prove to Be
Even harder to Detect Than They Are to Ban: Technological Shortcomings In
Equipment Have Some Blasting Army Funding," Starts on p. A1.
  Washington Post, May 20, 1996, "The Agony of Mines," (Editorial), p. A20.
  Washington Post, May 21, 1996, "Land Mine Fizzle," (column by Mary
McGrory), May 21, 1996, p. A2.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database:
-- From back issues of Arms Control Today
- "Clinton's Conventional Arms Export Policy: <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>So</a> Little Change," May 1995,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.conarmex.txt
- "Clinton, Bhutto Seek Resolution to `Pressler' Ban on F-16 Deliveries,"
May 1995, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.pressler.txt
- "Clinton Waives Ban on Arms Sales to israel Boycott Supporters," May 1995,
At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.mideast/.israel/.waiveban.txt
- "Congressmen Seek Clinton Support For Stronger Landmine Prohibitions," May
1995, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnccw.txt
- "UN Conventional Arms Register Participation Declines Slightly," December
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.rgprtdec.txt
- "Pakistan Looks to Russia, France for Advanced Aircraft and Subs,"
December 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.paklkrus.txt
- "Conventional Arms Control Initiatives: Russia as a Special Case, December
1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.conarmru.txt
- "House Imposes New Limits On U.S. Military Aid Programs," August 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.u.s/.secassit/.newlimit.txt
- "Turkey, Faced With Budget Problems Looks to Moscow for Arms," June 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.turkey/.turk-mos.txt
- "Global Arms Sales Show Decline, But Upswing Could Come Soon," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armsaldn.txt
- "New Law Would Force Disclosure of `Offset' Arms Sales," May 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.offsets/.lawdiscl.txt
- "U.S. Bids to `Cap' Indian-Pakistani Program Faces Opposition," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.capinpak.txt
- "Clinton, at U.N., Proposes New Landmine Initiative," November 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnpro.txt
- "Pentagon Renews Direct Support for U.S. Arms Makers at Air Show," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.tradesho/.nwsupair.txt
- "Congress to Consider `Code of Conduct' for U.S. Arms Transfers," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.codeofco/.code.txt
- "Congress Blocks Conversion Funds As Loan Guarantees For Arms Sales,"
December 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.congblok.txt
- "Book, Banker Re-kindle Charges Of U.S. Arms Sales to Iraq," December
1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.pergulf/.iraq/.iraqsale.txt
- "Fate of U.S. Loan Guarantees for Arms Sales Abroad Still Uncertain,"
October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.fateuncr.txt
- "Factfile: U.S. Conventional Arms Transfers,"October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armtrans.txt
- "United States Maintains Ranking As World's Top Arms Exporter," September
1993, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.ustopaex.txt
- "Clinton Hears Congressional Views on Restraining Global Arms Trade,"
September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.congview.txt
- "Factfile: UN Register of Conventional Arms," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.register.txt
- "Arming Ethnic Conflict," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.small/.ethnic.txt
- "Yugoslave Crisis Renews Debate On Ending Bosnian Arms Embargo," May 1993,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.yugoslav/.bosembar.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: The Debate on the Future Issues,"
October 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.undebate.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: A New Instrument for Cooperative
Security," April 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.coopsec.txt
- "Russia's `New Look' Arms Sales Strategy, October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.rusnewlk.txt
Landmines
- DoD May 16, 1996 Background Briefing on Landmine Policy At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.dodbrief.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet: U.S. Demining Program At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House News Briefing on "New" Landmine Policy (including
statements by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense
William Perry, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright,
and Q&A Session), At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the President, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-05-.tex
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen.
Shalikashvili, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.jcstatem
- May 16, 1996 Statement of Sen. Patrick Leahy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.lm960516.htm
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet "U.S. Announces Landmine Policy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet, "U.S. Efforts to Address the Problem
of Antipersonnel Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- Star Wars Puts On Civvies to Hunt Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lmclrg

	New Links to other Web Sites
The [UK] Landmine Control Programme: A Humanitarian Initiative;
 The Humanitarian Foundation of People Against Landmines; 
Mine Facts; 
Norwegian's People's Aid - International Demining Activities; 
Landmines: Hidden Killers (From UNICEF's State of the World Children 1996
report); [U.S.A.] Landmine Use Moratorium Act of 1995; 
Landmines (From One World Online); 
Landmine Related Web Sites; 
Oxfam Home Page; 
Terrestrial Remote Sensing Projects; 
Dumb Landmines Versus Smart Landmines; 
Mine Warfare Association; 
Landmines Home Page (Slow Access)
DeTec - Demining Technology Center
[Australian] Assistance to Defence Exporters

  NEW!!  Recommended!! One of the more useful products available at the
recent CCW Landmine Review conference in Geneva was a multimedia CD-ROM
entitled "Random Ambush", published by the International Committee of the
Red Cross. Use is made of photos, voice recordings, video clips and
high-quality graphics to present a wide range of information on
antipersonnel mines and issues: the different types of mines; their
production, selling,  and export; injuries caused by mines, treatment and
rehabilitation of their victims, social and economic costs arising from
their use, techniques of mine clearance, gaps in international law governing
the use of antipersonnel mines, and the worldwide campaign to ban them.
	The program can be run on both Windows and Macintosh computers. The price
is 25 Swiss francs / $20.00
	Copies may be ordered from the International Committee of the Red Cross,
Division of Public Information, 19, av. De la Paix, CH 1202, Geneva
Switzerland or by E-mail at com_dip.gva@gwn.icrc.org

  New Books
- Arms Trade and the Future of the Russian Defense Industry, by V. Khrutsky
and T. Latypov; 1995, 124pp.; and The European Arms Trade, edited by Martin
Navias and Susan Willett, 155pp, 1996, both by Nova Science Publishers.

  Newsflash!
	- "U.S. President Bill Clinton's Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
(TPCC) will soon recommend that the United States launch multilateral
negotiations to eliminate, or reduce, the use of offsets in international
arms trade...The interagency TPCC is expected to include the recommendation
in its July-planned annual report."
--Defense News, May 27-June 3, 1996, p. 2

	- The National Security Archive has opened their web site. It has various
arms trade collections, including those donated by Michael Klare and Cindy
Aronson. To see what they have set your browser to
<a href=http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive>http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive</a>

.
<hr>1/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-397</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B011-160</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108203839 text/html 14830
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:37:52 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14671
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52
Date: 18 Jun 1996 07:45:55

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 52
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 17, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>
 

  Sidel, Victor  "Towards a Better World: The international arms trade and
its impact on health," British Medical Journal, December 23-20, 1995, V.
311, pp 1677-80,

  International Military Education and Training: An Assessment, October
1995, John A. Cope, McNair Paper 44, Institute for National Strategic
Studies, National Defense University, Washington, D.C., 70pp. (See online
table of contents at <a href=http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html>http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html</a>

  Military Technology, 5/96, "Winds of Change At Fidae ['96 Air Show], pp.
86-87.

  Recycled Weapons: American Exports of Surplus Arms, 1990-1995, A Study by
the Arms Sales Monitoring Project of the Federation of American Scientists
by Paul F. Pineo and Lora Lumpe, May 1996, 36pp. (NOTE: This is also
available online at <a href=http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm>http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm</a>

  Inside the Pentagon, May 16, 1996, "New Arms Transfer Teams To Help Army
Streamline Weapons Sales," p. 1

  Los Angeles Times, May 24, 1996, "U.S. Agents Say Chinese Tanks, Rockets
Offered," p. 1.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "AWACS-type C-130 set to get export
go-ahead," ;"$161m reconnaissance upgrade for Dutch F-16s," p. 8; "Ethiopian
Navy for sale to highest bidder," p. 15; 

  The Free China Journal, May 31, 1996, "US to sell missiles to Taiwan to
bolster defense," p. 1.

  Defense Daily, May 31, 1996, "Egyptians Sign Contract To Buy 21 F-16
Fighters," p. 358.

  Asia-Pacific Defence Reporter, May-June 1996, "The new Sino-Russian
partnership: SU-27s the icing on the cake," pp. 12, 13.

  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Will France Stay Number
One? Being the World's Foremost Arms Seller Is Not A Coveted Honor," p. 12.

  Jane's Intelligence Review, June 1996, "Russian arms makers seek business
abroad," pp. 246-247.

  Jane's Intelligence Review & Jane's Sentinel Pointer, June 1996,
"Death-blow to the [South African] arms industry [re second Cameron
Commission report], p. 12.

  Army, June 1996, "Security Assistance -- A Force Multiplier," pp. 42-46;
and "Security Assistance Programs: Promoting Democracy in the Post-Cold War
Era," pp. 25, 26, 28, 30.

  Washington Post, June 2, 1996, "Hill Panels May Enter Controversy Over CIA
Action on Croatia Envoy: State Dept. Officials Angered by Reports Covering
Bosnian Arms Policy," p. 12.

  Newsweek, June 3, 1996, "A Call to Open Arms: Congress is investigating
why U.S. Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbraith ignored the U.N. embargo and
a and allowed weapons into Bosnia," p. 58.

  Washington Post, June 5, 1996, "U.S. to Sell Jets to Indonesia, Transfer
Proceeds to Pakistan," p. A27.

  Los Angeles Times, June 5, 1996 (Wash. Ed.), "U.S. Shares Weaponry With
World, Report Says," p. 2.

  London Financial Times, June 5, 1996, "BaE wins Kuwaiti missile contract,"
p. 8.

  Washington Post, June 6, 1996, "U.S. Operation in Turkey Seeks To Train,
Unite Croats and Muslims," p. A21.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 6, 1996, "Guns and Money: Illicit arms
trade puts China on the defensive," p. 16.

  Defense Daily, June 7, 1996, "U.S. To Transfer Tanks, Helicopters To
Bosnia," p. 401.

  The following references are taken from the 6/8 listing off BASIC's
Project on the Arms Trade: Rewriting Canada's Military Export Control
Policies and Procedures, Ernie Regehr, Ploughshares Briefing [#96/2},
Project Ploughshares, Conrad Grebel College, Canada; and "The Arms Trade,
Military Assistance, and Recent Wars: Change and Continuity," Stephanie G.
Neumann, The Annals, American Academy of Political and Social Science,
September 1995.

  Defense News, June 3-9, 1996, "U.S. Offset Initiative Leaves Allies Cold,"
pp. 1, 33; "Israel's Request for 16 AMRAAMS May Change Air Warfare in
Mideast," pp. 3, 32; "Thai Hornet Buy Breaks Pattern: Marks First F/A-18
Sale to Country Operating Rival F-16 Aircraft," p. 4.

  Washington Post, June 11, 1996, "Woolsey, in Testimony, Criticizes White
House: Bosnia-Iran Stance Called Unwise, Not Illegal," p. 20.

  Congressional Record, June 11, 1996, Debate over the Foreign Operations
appropriations bill.  See sections on amendments by Rep. Obey to prohibit
IMET funding for Cambodia and Thailand, pp. H6145-6148; and Rep. Frank to
prohibit IMET funding for Indonesia, pp. H6150-6156.

  Defense News, June 10-16, 1996, "Canadian Fighter Sale Fuels Fear of
African Arms Race." p. 6; "Mideast Nations Near Arms Saturation Point:
Shopping Spree of Early 1990s Puts Strain on Logistics, Training," pp. 8,
20; "Kuwaiti Shifts Focus From Politics to Weapon Quality," p. 8; "Egypt
Woos Gulf States for Industrial Operation," p. 10; "Cash-Strapped Oman
Weights Upgrade to Air, Armor Forces," p. 12; "Egypt Grants Higher Status To
Enhancing Naval Power," p. 12; "Bahrain Puts Air Defense at Top of Upgrade
List," p. 16; and "Jordan To Benefit From U.S. Presence," p. 20.

  Defense News, June 17-23, 1996, "U.S. Readies Long-Awaited Export Loan
Program," pp. 4, 26; and "Sweden May Boost Exports: Eased Rules Would
Broaden Gripen Market Reach," p. 8; and "Pakistan-Ukraine Tank Deal Would
Open Supply Source," p. 8.

Landmines
  Military Technology, Vol. 20, No. 5, 5/96 "Of Mines and Clowns," p. 5.
  Disarmament Diplomacy, May 1996, "Diplomacy After the Negotiation:
Protocol II and the Anti-Personnel Landmine Ban," pp. 9-14.
  Syracuse Herald-Journal, May 11, 1996, "Take stand against killing kids,"
[editorial], p. 5.
  Boston Globe, May 17, 1996, "Ridding the world of land mines," [op-ed], p. 17.
  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, May 20, 1996, "Let U.S. push land-mine ban,"
[editorial] p. 10.
  The Sacramento Bee, May 20, 1996, "Land-Mine Compromise," [editorial] p. B6.
  Navy Times, May 27, 1996, "Clinton reverses his stance; U.S. to keep its
land mines," p. 10.
  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "Mines in Bosnia: a lethal legacy," 
  Defense Daily, "Army Looks To South Africa For Bosnia Countermine Effort,"
p. 341.
  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Hunting Hidden Killers:
Most Promising Mine-Detecting Technologies Now On Fast Track," pp. 18-19.
  Soldiers, June 1996, "Countering Mines: A Coordinated Army effort is
helping reduce the danger of mines in Bosnia," pp. 22-25.
  Air Force Times, June 3, 1996, "Most land mines will stay: Critics say
Clinton's policy is `nothing new' p. 30; and "How useful they remain is
debated," p. 30.
  Army Times, June 3, 1996 , "Clinton: Anti-personnel land mines to stay,"
p. 38; and "The pros and cons of land mines leave the Army divided," p. 38.
  Dallas Morning News, June 3, 1996, "Why won't Clinton ban land mines?," p. 9.
  Minneapolis Star Tribune, June 3, 1996, "Land mines: Missing a chance to
outlaw agony," p. 10.
  Providence Journal-Bulletin, June 3, 1996, "Watch your step, world!," p. B4.
  International Herald Tribune, June 4, 1996, "Revised Agreement Is No
Victory in War Against Land Mines," p. 8.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
	The papers and discussions from CDI's Capitol Hill "Conventional Arms
Transfer Restraint in the 1990s" conference, held November 16, 1994, are now
online. Set your broswer to
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/1/.atdb/.other/.cdiresou/.catr  
	The contents include, but are not limited to:
- Keynote Address by Amb. Ralph Earle, Deputy Director of ACDA
- What the U.S. Gains by Arms Transfer by Joel Johnson of AIA
- What the U.S. Loses by Arms Transfers, by William Hartung of the World
Policy Institute
- Do U.S. Arms Transfers Enhance Economic and Military Security?, by Dr.
Greg Bischak
- Producers vs. Buyers: Who Controls the Trade, by Andrew Pierre of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
- The Code of Conduct and Human Rights Issues, by Ms. Julie McGregor of Sen.
Hatfield's office
- Overview of the Conventional Arms Trade, by Dr. Larry Korb of the
Brookings Institute
- Finding Effective Arms Transfer Restraint Measures, by Dr. Natalie Goldring
- The Role of the UN and Regional Organizations in Restraining Conventional
Arms Transfers, by Dr. Frederick Pearson, Wayne State University
- Identifying Key Elements of a New U.S. Conventional Arms Transfer Policy,
Prof. Aaron Karp, Old Dominion University

	A tip of the hat goes to our taxpayer funded U.S. Defense Security
Assistance Agency. Although we wish they were not doing what they do, i.e.,
implementing arms sales, they have been kind enough to provide us the
computer files from their Foreign Military Sales database. We have finally
been able to decode and reformat the data and have posted it online.  The
following tables are based on the data as it appears in DSAA's "Foreign
Military Sales, Foreign Military Construction Sales, and Military Assistance
Facts" annual publication. We will be posting more tables online, based on
that work, in the future. And, further down the road we will be posting
tables that are formatted in accordance with DSAA's Fiscal Year Series.

- Foreign Military Construction Sales Agreements. 
 At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.2.txt
- Foreign Military Sales Deliveries.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.3.txt
- Foreign Military Construction Sales Deliveries.
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.4.txt
- Commercial Exports Licensed Under Arms Export Control Act 
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.6.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Merger Funds.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.7.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Program--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.10.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Delivered--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.11.txt

CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents
-Amended Protocol II, CCW Conference, May 1, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.amenprot.txt
- Article 11, Technical Cooperation & Assistance, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.art-11.txt
- Article 13, Paragraph 4, Proposal Submitted by Germany, April 22, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propgerm.txt
- Biographies of Selected members of the International Campaign to Ban
Landmines, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.bios.txt
- Campaign Highlights, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.highlite.txt
- China: Moratorium on the Export of AP Mines, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.china.txt
- Closing Statement by the President of the 1st Review Conference on CCW, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.molander.txt
- Compliance Annex, Proposal Submitted by the United States, CCW, 4/23/96,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propus.txt
- Draft Final Report of the Review Conference, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.drfinrep.txt
- FCO [UK] Spokesman: Minister Welcomes Adoption of New Agreement, May 3,
1996,  At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.fcospoke.txt
- List of Participants at the CCW Review Conference, 
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.particip.txt
- Main Committee I: Draft Final Declaration, CCW, May 1, 1996
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.declarat.txt
- Pentagon Memo Attacks Ban on Blinding Lasers, Human Rights Watch Arms
Project, April 21, 1996, 
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.laserban.txt
- Press Advisory: Production Could Resume in Italy, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.prodital.txt
- Press Advisory: UK's Policy Announces Procurement of New Mines, April 24,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.ukgroup.txt

- New Links: 
- Land Mine Awareness Education, At <a href=http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/>http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/</a>
- Northrop Grumman. At <a href=http://www.northgrum.com>http://www.northgrum.com</a>

QUOTE of the DAY!!
"On November 28, 1995, BXA [Commerce Department's Bureau of Export
Administration] published a final rule that expanded foreign policy controls
on specially designed implements of torture. Previously, such implements
were controlled as "crime control and detection" commodities in the same
category of as handcuffs, police helmets and shields. As such, they did not
require a validated license for export to member countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, or New Zealand. This
new rule created a control list entry requiring a validated license for
export of specially designed implements of torture to all destinations,
including Canada. Applications for such exports will continue to be subject
to a general policy of denial."
--Congressional Record, June 4, 1996, p. S5759

.
<hr>2/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-398</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B012-34</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2 194.10.201.200 19970108203929 text/html 14836
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:38:39 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14677
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 52
Date: 18 Jun 1996 07:45:55

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 52
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 17, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>
 

  Sidel, Victor  "Towards a Better World: The international arms trade and
its impact on health," British Medical Journal, December 23-20, 1995, V.
311, pp 1677-80,

  International Military Education and Training: An Assessment, October
1995, John A. Cope, McNair Paper 44, Institute for National Strategic
Studies, National Defense University, Washington, D.C., 70pp. (See online
table of contents at <a href=http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html>http://www.ndu.edu/ndu/inss/macnair/mcnair44/m044cont.html</a>

  Military Technology, 5/96, "Winds of Change At Fidae ['96 Air Show], pp.
86-87.

  Recycled Weapons: American Exports of Surplus Arms, 1990-1995, A Study by
the Arms Sales Monitoring Project of the Federation of American Scientists
by Paul F. Pineo and Lora Lumpe, May 1996, 36pp. (NOTE: This is also
available online at <a href=http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm>http://www.fas.org/asmp/recycle.htm</a>

  Inside the Pentagon, May 16, 1996, "New Arms Transfer Teams To Help Army
Streamline Weapons Sales," p. 1

  Los Angeles Times, May 24, 1996, "U.S. Agents Say Chinese Tanks, Rockets
Offered," p. 1.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "AWACS-type C-130 set to get export
go-ahead," ;"$161m reconnaissance upgrade for Dutch F-16s," p. 8; "Ethiopian
Navy for sale to highest bidder," p. 15; 

  The Free China Journal, May 31, 1996, "US to sell missiles to Taiwan to
bolster defense," p. 1.

  Defense Daily, May 31, 1996, "Egyptians Sign Contract To Buy 21 F-16
Fighters," p. 358.

  Asia-Pacific Defence Reporter, May-June 1996, "The new Sino-Russian
partnership: SU-27s the icing on the cake," pp. 12, 13.

  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Will France Stay Number
One? Being the World's Foremost Arms Seller Is Not A Coveted Honor," p. 12.

  Jane's Intelligence Review, June 1996, "Russian arms makers seek business
abroad," pp. 246-247.

  Jane's Intelligence Review & Jane's Sentinel Pointer, June 1996,
"Death-blow to the [South African] arms industry [re second Cameron
Commission report], p. 12.

  Army, June 1996, "Security Assistance -- A Force Multiplier," pp. 42-46;
and "Security Assistance Programs: Promoting Democracy in the Post-Cold War
Era," pp. 25, 26, 28, 30.

  Washington Post, June 2, 1996, "Hill Panels May Enter Controversy Over CIA
Action on Croatia Envoy: State Dept. Officials Angered by Reports Covering
Bosnian Arms Policy," p. 12.

  Newsweek, June 3, 1996, "A Call to Open Arms: Congress is investigating
why U.S. Ambassador to Croatia Peter Galbraith ignored the U.N. embargo and
a and allowed weapons into Bosnia," p. 58.

  Washington Post, June 5, 1996, "U.S. to Sell Jets to Indonesia, Transfer
Proceeds to Pakistan," p. A27.

  Los Angeles Times, June 5, 1996 (Wash. Ed.), "U.S. Shares Weaponry With
World, Report Says," p. 2.

  London Financial Times, June 5, 1996, "BaE wins Kuwaiti missile contract,"
p. 8.

  Washington Post, June 6, 1996, "U.S. Operation in Turkey Seeks To Train,
Unite Croats and Muslims," p. A21.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 6, 1996, "Guns and Money: Illicit arms
trade puts China on the defensive," p. 16.

  Defense Daily, June 7, 1996, "U.S. To Transfer Tanks, Helicopters To
Bosnia," p. 401.

  The following references are taken from the 6/8 listing off BASIC's
Project on the Arms Trade: Rewriting Canada's Military Export Control
Policies and Procedures, Ernie Regehr, Ploughshares Briefing [#96/2},
Project Ploughshares, Conrad Grebel College, Canada; and "The Arms Trade,
Military Assistance, and Recent Wars: Change and Continuity," Stephanie G.
Neumann, The Annals, American Academy of Political and Social Science,
September 1995.

  Defense News, June 3-9, 1996, "U.S. Offset Initiative Leaves Allies Cold,"
pp. 1, 33; "Israel's Request for 16 AMRAAMS May Change Air Warfare in
Mideast," pp. 3, 32; "Thai Hornet Buy Breaks Pattern: Marks First F/A-18
Sale to Country Operating Rival F-16 Aircraft," p. 4.

  Washington Post, June 11, 1996, "Woolsey, in Testimony, Criticizes White
House: Bosnia-Iran Stance Called Unwise, Not Illegal," p. 20.

  Congressional Record, June 11, 1996, Debate over the Foreign Operations
appropriations bill.  See sections on amendments by Rep. Obey to prohibit
IMET funding for Cambodia and Thailand, pp. H6145-6148; and Rep. Frank to
prohibit IMET funding for Indonesia, pp. H6150-6156.

  Defense News, June 10-16, 1996, "Canadian Fighter Sale Fuels Fear of
African Arms Race." p. 6; "Mideast Nations Near Arms Saturation Point:
Shopping Spree of Early 1990s Puts Strain on Logistics, Training," pp. 8,
20; "Kuwaiti Shifts Focus From Politics to Weapon Quality," p. 8; "Egypt
Woos Gulf States for Industrial Operation," p. 10; "Cash-Strapped Oman
Weights Upgrade to Air, Armor Forces," p. 12; "Egypt Grants Higher Status To
Enhancing Naval Power," p. 12; "Bahrain Puts Air Defense at Top of Upgrade
List," p. 16; and "Jordan To Benefit From U.S. Presence," p. 20.

  Defense News, June 17-23, 1996, "U.S. Readies Long-Awaited Export Loan
Program," pp. 4, 26; and "Sweden May Boost Exports: Eased Rules Would
Broaden Gripen Market Reach," p. 8; and "Pakistan-Ukraine Tank Deal Would
Open Supply Source," p. 8.

Landmines
  Military Technology, Vol. 20, No. 5, 5/96 "Of Mines and Clowns," p. 5.
  Disarmament Diplomacy, May 1996, "Diplomacy After the Negotiation:
Protocol II and the Anti-Personnel Landmine Ban," pp. 9-14.
  Syracuse Herald-Journal, May 11, 1996, "Take stand against killing kids,"
[editorial], p. 5.
  Boston Globe, May 17, 1996, "Ridding the world of land mines," [op-ed], p. 17.
  Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, May 20, 1996, "Let U.S. push land-mine ban,"
[editorial] p. 10.
  The Sacramento Bee, May 20, 1996, "Land-Mine Compromise," [editorial] p. B6.
  Navy Times, May 27, 1996, "Clinton reverses his stance; U.S. to keep its
land mines," p. 10.
  Jane's Defence Weekly, May 29, 1996, "Mines in Bosnia: a lethal legacy," 
  Defense Daily, "Army Looks To South Africa For Bosnia Countermine Effort,"
p. 341.
  Armed Forces Journal International, June 1996, "Hunting Hidden Killers:
Most Promising Mine-Detecting Technologies Now On Fast Track," pp. 18-19.
  Soldiers, June 1996, "Countering Mines: A Coordinated Army effort is
helping reduce the danger of mines in Bosnia," pp. 22-25.
  Air Force Times, June 3, 1996, "Most land mines will stay: Critics say
Clinton's policy is `nothing new' p. 30; and "How useful they remain is
debated," p. 30.
  Army Times, June 3, 1996 , "Clinton: Anti-personnel land mines to stay,"
p. 38; and "The pros and cons of land mines leave the Army divided," p. 38.
  Dallas Morning News, June 3, 1996, "Why won't Clinton ban land mines?," p. 9.
  Minneapolis Star Tribune, June 3, 1996, "Land mines: Missing a chance to
outlaw agony," p. 10.
  Providence Journal-Bulletin, June 3, 1996, "Watch your step, world!," p. B4.
  International Herald Tribune, June 4, 1996, "Revised Agreement Is No
Victory in War Against Land Mines," p. 8.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
	The papers and discussions from CDI's Capitol Hill "Conventional Arms
Transfer Restraint in the 1990s" conference, held November 16, 1994, are now
online. Set your broswer to
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/1/.atdb/.other/.cdiresou/.catr  
	The contents include, but are not limited to:
- Keynote Address by Amb. Ralph Earle, Deputy Director of ACDA
- What the U.S. Gains by Arms Transfer by Joel Johnson of AIA
- What the U.S. Loses by Arms Transfers, by William Hartung of the World
Policy Institute
- Do U.S. Arms Transfers Enhance Economic and Military Security?, by Dr.
Greg Bischak
- Producers vs. Buyers: Who Controls the Trade, by Andrew Pierre of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
- The Code of Conduct and Human Rights Issues, by Ms. Julie McGregor of Sen.
Hatfield's office
- Overview of the Conventional Arms Trade, by Dr. Larry Korb of the
Brookings Institute
- Finding Effective Arms Transfer Restraint Measures, by Dr. Natalie Goldring
- The Role of the UN and Regional Organizations in Restraining Conventional
Arms Transfers, by Dr. Frederick Pearson, Wayne State University
- Identifying Key Elements of a New U.S. Conventional Arms Transfer Policy,
Prof. Aaron Karp, Old Dominion University

	A tip of the hat goes to our taxpayer funded U.S. Defense Security
Assistance Agency. Although we wish they were not doing what they do, i.e.,
implementing arms sales, they have been kind enough to provide us the
computer files from their Foreign Military Sales database. We have finally
been able to decode and reformat the data and have posted it online.  The
following tables are based on the data as it appears in DSAA's "Foreign
Military Sales, Foreign Military Construction Sales, and Military Assistance
Facts" annual publication. We will be posting more tables online, based on
that work, in the future. And, further down the road we will be posting
tables that are formatted in accordance with DSAA's Fiscal Year Series.

- Foreign Military Construction Sales Agreements. 
 At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.2.txt
- Foreign Military Sales Deliveries.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.3.txt
- Foreign Military Construction Sales Deliveries.
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.4.txt
- Commercial Exports Licensed Under Arms Export Control Act 
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.6.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Merger Funds.
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.7.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Program--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.10.txt
- Military Assistance Program (MAP) Excess Defense Articles
Delivered--Acquisition Cost At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.dsaa/.11.txt

CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents
-Amended Protocol II, CCW Conference, May 1, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.amenprot.txt
- Article 11, Technical Cooperation & Assistance, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.art-11.txt
- Article 13, Paragraph 4, Proposal Submitted by Germany, April 22, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propgerm.txt
- Biographies of Selected members of the International Campaign to Ban
Landmines, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.bios.txt
- Campaign Highlights, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.highlite.txt
- China: Moratorium on the Export of AP Mines, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.china.txt
- Closing Statement by the President of the 1st Review Conference on CCW, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.molander.txt
- Compliance Annex, Proposal Submitted by the United States, CCW, 4/23/96,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propus.txt
- Draft Final Report of the Review Conference, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.drfinrep.txt
- FCO [UK] Spokesman: Minister Welcomes Adoption of New Agreement, May 3,
1996,  At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.fcospoke.txt
- List of Participants at the CCW Review Conference, 
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.particip.txt
- Main Committee I: Draft Final Declaration, CCW, May 1, 1996
At  gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.declarat.txt
- Pentagon Memo Attacks Ban on Blinding Lasers, Human Rights Watch Arms
Project, April 21, 1996, 
 At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.laserban.txt
- Press Advisory: Production Could Resume in Italy, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.prodital.txt
- Press Advisory: UK's Policy Announces Procurement of New Mines, April 24,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.ukgroup.txt

- New Links: 
- Land Mine Awareness Education, At <a href=http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/>http://www1.pitt.edu/%7Eginie/lm/</a>
- Northrop Grumman. At <a href=http://www.northgrum.com>http://www.northgrum.com</a>

QUOTE of the DAY!!
"On November 28, 1995, BXA [Commerce Department's Bureau of Export
Administration] published a final rule that expanded foreign policy controls
on specially designed implements of torture. Previously, such implements
were controlled as "crime control and detection" commodities in the same
category of as handcuffs, police helmets and shields. As such, they did not
require a validated license for export to member countries of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, or New Zealand. This
new rule created a control list entry requiring a validated license for
export of specially designed implements of torture to all destinations,
including Canada. Applications for such exports will continue to be subject
to a general policy of denial."
--Congressional Record, June 4, 1996, p. S5759

.
<hr>2/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-399</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B012-99</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=1&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204035 text/html 16665
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:39:39 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 16506
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 51
Date: 30 May 1996 10:19:34

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 51
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			May 30, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Global Security Concerns: Anticipating the Twenty-First Century, edited by
Dr. Karl P. Magyar and Lt. Col. Bradley S. David, Air University Press,
Maxwell Air Force Base, March 1996. See Chap. 13, "Conventional Armaments:
Mapping Warfare in the Twenty-First Century" by Mark Browne, pp. 239-258.

  Military Technology, Vol. 20 #4, 4/96, "Quo Vadis, Asian Defence?:
Conventional Arms Proliferation in East/Southeast Asia," pp. 10-12, 14-15.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, April 24, 1996, "GGC [Gulf Cooperation Council] Air
Forces," starts p. 18

  Aerospace Daily, April 30, 1996, "Indonesia's Suharto said to okay F-16
buy," p. 181.
  
  Jane's Intelligence Review, May 1996, "Burma develops its ability to build
arms," pp. 233-235.

  The Atlantic Monthly, May 1996, "Blowback," [The CIA poured billions into
a jihad against Soviet-occupied Afghanistan, creating a militant Islamist
Abraham Lincoln Brigade believed to have been involved in bombings from
Islamabad to New York. Is Bosnia next?],  p. 24, 26-28, and 36.

  The DISAM Journal, of International Security Assistance Management, Vol.
18, No. 3, Spring 1996, "Fiscal Year 1996 Security Assistance Legislation,"
, pp. 19-58.

  Boston Globe, May 9, 1996, "US sees conflict of interest over arms:
Commerce study looks at `offsets'," p. 1.

  The New Yorker, May 13, 1996, "What's the real Iran-Bosnia scandal?," p. 7.

  Defense News, May 13-19, 1996, "Finland Will Barter Missiles for Debt:
Delivery of Air Defense Weapons Would Reduce Russian Obligation," p. 30;
"Mirage Buy to Delay Pakistani Budget Cuts," p. 32.

  Civilian Pawns: Laws of War Violations and the Use of Weapons on the
Israel-Lebanon Border, Human Rights Watch Arms Project and Human Rights
Watch/Middle East, Released May 22, 1996, 142pp.

  Offsets In Defense Trade: A Study Conducted under Section 309 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, As Amended, Prepared By U.S. Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Export Administration, Office of Strategic Industries
and Economic Security, May 21, 1996, (73pp., not counting 4 appendices)

  Washington Post, May 22, 1996, "Specter Says Top Officials Hid Arms
Policy," p. A25.

  Washington Post, May 23, 1996, "U.S. Arrests Suspects With Ties to Chinese
Arms Firms in Gun Smuggling Sting," p. A16.

  New York Times, May 23, 1996, "Chinese Sought In Plot To Import Arms to
the U.S.," p. 1.

  Washington Post, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Executives Indicted in
Smuggling," p. A20.

  Washington Times, May 24, 1996, "Customs agents crack arms-smuggling ring
tied to Chinese VIPs," p. A3; and  "Talbott rebuts Woolsey on Iran-Bosnia
briefing: Tells Hill panel of arms-policy change," p. A11.

  New York Times, May 24, 1996, "Chinese Arms Seized in Undercover Inquiry:
Raids Raise Questions on Officials' Knowledge, and Trade Status," p. A12.

  Washington Post, May 25, 1996, "China Is Asked to Aid Illicit Arms Probe,"
p. A6; and "Sowing Mayhem," [re landmines] [What's on Earth feature], A17.

  Defense News, May 20-26, 1996, " Industry Experts Doubt Russia's Plan To
Become Global Arms Export Force," pp. 42; and "U.K. Makes Final Effort To
Sell Subs to Canada," p. 44.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, May 27, 1996, "U.S. Export Push
Challenges Europeans," pp. 20-22; "$28-Billion Market Targeted by U.S.," p.
20; [for further details about the Clinton Administration's "Showcase Europe
aerospace marketing strategy and its "major projects list" in Western and
Central Europe call Will Fenter at the US Embassy in Paris. Phone # 33 1 43
12 23 18]; and "Sukhoi Upgrades Geared to South Asian Market," p. 57.
  New York Times, May 29, 1996, "Gun-Running in the Balkans: CIA and
Diplomats Collide," p. 1; and "Beijing Vows To Punish Unauthorized Arms
Exports," p. 5

  Wall Street Journal, May 29, 1996, "Ambassador Is In for Grilling Over
Arms Flow: Galbraith Scheduled to Give First Open Testimony On Shipments to
Bosnia," p. A9.

  Defense News, May 27-June 2, 1996, "U.S. Air Force To Certify AEW Hercules
for Export," pp. 4, 36; and "Albania Will Buy 5 U.S. Patrol Boats: Deal
Marks First U.S. Shipment of Equipment to Former East Bloc," p. 16

  Jane's Defence Weekly (Back Issues)
- 20 March 1996, "Brazil to give priority to SIVAM over F-5 upgrade," p. 6;
"Russia talks sales with eight nations," p. 8; "B-2 flypast marks US
presence at Chile airshow," p. 8; "Lockheed Martin confident that USA will
lift [combat] aircraft sale ban [to Latin America]," p. 8; "Hellfire deal
for Norway," p. 12; "First two La Fayettes ready to sail for Taiwan," p. 14;
and "Angola urged to reduce mines," p. 15.
- 27 March 1996, "Dutch join pact against anti-personnel mines," p. 12; and
"Russia in billion dollar arms sales to Iran
- 17 April, 1996, "UAE Navy to take over ex-Dutch Kortenaers," p. 5, "USA
restores grant aid training to Indonesia," p. 27; 
- 24 April, 1996, "UK radar will equip Chinese AEW aircraft," p. 3; "US
exporters face greater offset demands," p. 5; "China is poised to buy third
batch of Su-27s," p. 10
- 1 May 1996, "Cypriot arms build-up continues with T-80 buy," p. 3;
"Boutros-Ghali attacks vicious circle of global arms sales," p. 5; "USA and
Mexico work out UH-1H transfer," p. 8; and "France seeks shake-up of export
policy," p. 25.
- 8 May 1996, "MLU [Mid-Life Update]: Giving a new lease of life to F-16s,"
pp. 26-27;
- 15 May 1996, "Boutros-Ghali criticizes failure to ban landmines," p. 4;
and "USA urged to lift FMS ban [to Latin America], p. 5.
- 22 May 1996, "Global military spending is lowest for 20 years," p. 3; "USA
takes first step in banning anti-personnel mines," [Turkish] F-4E upgrade
accord `close'," p. 12; "Singapore to limit mine exports," p. 14; "S Africa
sales hit $198m," p. 17

 	Land Mines
  Soldiers, May 1996, "Demining Honduras," p. 21.
  Los Angeles Times (Wash. Ed.), May 8, 1996, "Long, Slow War on Land Mines:
Gain at Geneva meeting is just a fraction of what is needed," p. 10.
  Dallas Morning News, May 8, 1996, "Demonstrators rally for land mine ban,"
May 8, 1996, p. 10.
  Washington Post, May 16, 1996, "Clinton Won't Change Land Mine Policy:
President Seeks to Avoid Political Risk in Election Year, Critics Say," p. A11.
  Army Times, May 20, 1996, "Ban the production of land mines," p. 54.
  Washington Post, May 17, 1996, "Clinton Rejects a Ban on Use of Land
Mines," p. A24
  Aerospace Daily, May 17, 1996, "U.S. retains some anti-personnel mines for
Korea scenario," p. 284.
  Wall Street Journal, May 17, 1996, "Killing Fields: Land Mines Prove to Be
Even harder to Detect Than They Are to Ban: Technological Shortcomings In
Equipment Have Some Blasting Army Funding," Starts on p. A1.
  Washington Post, May 20, 1996, "The Agony of Mines," (Editorial), p. A20.
  Washington Post, May 21, 1996, "Land Mine Fizzle," (column by Mary
McGrory), May 21, 1996, p. A2.

  New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database:
-- From back issues of Arms Control Today
- "Clinton's Conventional Arms Export Policy: <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>So</a> Little Change," May 1995,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.conarmex.txt
- "Clinton, Bhutto Seek Resolution to `Pressler' Ban on F-16 Deliveries,"
May 1995, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.pressler.txt
- "Clinton Waives Ban on Arms Sales to israel Boycott Supporters," May 1995,
At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.mideast/.israel/.waiveban.txt
- "Congressmen Seek Clinton Support For Stronger Landmine Prohibitions," May
1995, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnccw.txt
- "UN Conventional Arms Register Participation Declines Slightly," December
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.rgprtdec.txt
- "Pakistan Looks to Russia, France for Advanced Aircraft and Subs,"
December 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.pakistan/.paklkrus.txt
- "Conventional Arms Control Initiatives: Russia as a Special Case, December
1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.conarmru.txt
- "House Imposes New Limits On U.S. Military Aid Programs," August 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.u.s/.secassit/.newlimit.txt
- "Turkey, Faced With Budget Problems Looks to Moscow for Arms," June 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.turkey/.turk-mos.txt
- "Global Arms Sales Show Decline, But Upswing Could Come Soon," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armsaldn.txt
- "New Law Would Force Disclosure of `Offset' Arms Sales," May 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.offsets/.lawdiscl.txt
- "U.S. Bids to `Cap' Indian-Pakistani Program Faces Opposition," May 1994,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.sasia/.capinpak.txt
- "Clinton, at U.N., Proposes New Landmine Initiative," November 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lndmnpro.txt
- "Pentagon Renews Direct Support for U.S. Arms Makers at Air Show," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.tradesho/.nwsupair.txt
- "Congress to Consider `Code of Conduct' for U.S. Arms Transfers," March
1994, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.codeofco/.code.txt
- "Congress Blocks Conversion Funds As Loan Guarantees For Arms Sales,"
December 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.congblok.txt
- "Book, Banker Re-kindle Charges Of U.S. Arms Sales to Iraq," December
1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.asia/.pergulf/.iraq/.iraqsale.txt
- "Fate of U.S. Loan Guarantees for Arms Sales Abroad Still Uncertain,"
October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.industry/.loanguar/.fateuncr.txt
- "Factfile: U.S. Conventional Arms Transfers,"October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.armtrans.txt
- "United States Maintains Ranking As World's Top Arms Exporter," September
1993, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.analysis/.ustopaex.txt
- "Clinton Hears Congressional Views on Restraining Global Arms Trade,"
September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.congview.txt
- "Factfile: UN Register of Conventional Arms," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.register.txt
- "Arming Ethnic Conflict," September 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.small/.ethnic.txt
- "Yugoslave Crisis Renews Debate On Ending Bosnian Arms Embargo," May 1993,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.yugoslav/.bosembar.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: The Debate on the Future Issues,"
October 1994, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.undebate.txt
- "The UN Register of Conventional Arms: A New Instrument for Cooperative
Security," April 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.patterns/.atdata/.u.n/.coopsec.txt
- "Russia's `New Look' Arms Sales Strategy, October 1993, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.regions/.europe/.russia/.rusnewlk.txt
Landmines
- DoD May 16, 1996 Background Briefing on Landmine Policy At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.dodbrief.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet: U.S. Demining Program At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 White House News Briefing on "New" Landmine Policy (including
statements by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Secretary of Defense
William Perry, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright,
and Q&A Session), At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-06.txt
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the President, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.1996-05-.tex
- May 16, 1996 Statement by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen.
Shalikashvili, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.jcstatem
- May 16, 1996 Statement of Sen. Patrick Leahy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.lm960516.htm
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet "U.S. Announces Landmine Policy, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- May 16, 1996 White House Fact Sheet, "U.S. Efforts to Address the Problem
of Antipersonnel Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.uspolicy/.facts.cgi
- Star Wars Puts On Civvies to Hunt Landmines," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.lmclrg

	New Links to other Web Sites
The [UK] Landmine Control Programme: A Humanitarian Initiative;
 The Humanitarian Foundation of People Against Landmines; 
Mine Facts; 
Norwegian's People's Aid - International Demining Activities; 
Landmines: Hidden Killers (From UNICEF's State of the World Children 1996
report); [U.S.A.] Landmine Use Moratorium Act of 1995; 
Landmines (From One World Online); 
Landmine Related Web Sites; 
Oxfam Home Page; 
Terrestrial Remote Sensing Projects; 
Dumb Landmines Versus Smart Landmines; 
Mine Warfare Association; 
Landmines Home Page (Slow Access)
DeTec - Demining Technology Center
[Australian] Assistance to Defence Exporters

  NEW!!  Recommended!! One of the more useful products available at the
recent CCW Landmine Review conference in Geneva was a multimedia CD-ROM
entitled "Random Ambush", published by the International Committee of the
Red Cross. Use is made of photos, voice recordings, video clips and
high-quality graphics to present a wide range of information on
antipersonnel mines and issues: the different types of mines; their
production, selling,  and export; injuries caused by mines, treatment and
rehabilitation of their victims, social and economic costs arising from
their use, techniques of mine clearance, gaps in international law governing
the use of antipersonnel mines, and the worldwide campaign to ban them.
	The program can be run on both Windows and Macintosh computers. The price
is 25 Swiss francs / $20.00
	Copies may be ordered from the International Committee of the Red Cross,
Division of Public Information, 19, av. De la Paix, CH 1202, Geneva
Switzerland or by E-mail at com_dip.gva@gwn.icrc.org

  New Books
- Arms Trade and the Future of the Russian Defense Industry, by V. Khrutsky
and T. Latypov; 1995, 124pp.; and The European Arms Trade, edited by Martin
Navias and Susan Willett, 155pp, 1996, both by Nova Science Publishers.

  Newsflash!
	- "U.S. President Bill Clinton's Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
(TPCC) will soon recommend that the United States launch multilateral
negotiations to eliminate, or reduce, the use of offsets in international
arms trade...The interagency TPCC is expected to include the recommendation
in its July-planned annual report."
--Defense News, May 27-June 3, 1996, p. 2

	- The National Security Archive has opened their web site. It has various
arms trade collections, including those donated by Michael Klare and Cindy
Aronson. To see what they have set your browser to
<a href=http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive>http://www.seas.gwu.edu/nsarchive</a>

.
<hr>1/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-400</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B012-158</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204120 text/html 1177
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:40:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1019
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: jpetersson@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Report on Swedish arms trade
Date: 20 Jun 1996 14:23:25 +0100 (SVT)

GOVERNMENTAL REPORT ON SWEDISH ARMS TRADE

Every year the Swedish government report it´s armstrade to the 
parliament. A week ago such a report was given.

This report will also in short be translated to english.

If you are intrerested in Swedish arms trade I can send you the english 
version of the report by mail when it´s done.

Send me your adress, preferably to this adress:
svenska.freds@educate.se

Yours sincerely,
Jens Petersson
Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society
.
<hr>3/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-401</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-11</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3 194.10.201.200 19970108204201 text/html 1183
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:41:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1025
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: jpetersson@nn.apc.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Report on Swedish arms trade
Date: 20 Jun 1996 14:23:25 +0100 (SVT)

GOVERNMENTAL REPORT ON SWEDISH ARMS TRADE

Every year the Swedish government report it´s armstrade to the 
parliament. A week ago such a report was given.

This report will also in short be translated to english.

If you are intrerested in Swedish arms trade I can send you the english 
version of the report by mail when it´s done.

Send me your adress, preferably to this adress:
svenska.freds@educate.se

Yours sincerely,
Jens Petersson
Swedish Peace and Arbitration Society
.
<hr>3/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=2&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-402</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-64</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204241 text/html 2670
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:42:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2512
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 21 Jun 1996 12:47:56

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Arms Trade Database


								June 21, 1996

Dear Arms Trade Citation List Recipients:

	As you know CDI established and continues to develop an Arms Trade Database
(ATDB) devoted to numerous aspects of the conventional arms trade, such as
data from CRS, ACDA, the UN, and DSAA, info on landmine proliferation, small
arms, developments in industry, and much more.

	Each new list I send out includes references to new material loaded into
the ATDB. I know that some of you, going on the basis of past
conversations--have found this to be quite useful.

	As you may be aware keeping the ATDB going and up to date is both a
time-consuming and expensive endeavor. Much information must be scanned in
which requires the services of a temp worker who struggles to scan in the
huge piles of relevant material. It also requires a significant portion of
my time, as well as that of some of the interns. 

	Mind you, this is not a complaint; just the facts, as Jack Webb, put it.
However, our initial funding for the ATDB is drawing to a close and to keep
it going will require new funding. You can help.

	I am NOT asking for money. I know that you have limited funds and equally
important priorities. But, I would ask for just a couple of minutes of your
time. If you have found the ATDB useful to you please let us know. Your
comments and testimonials will be of great value to us as we go to
foundations and seek new funding. Please take just a few minutes to send us
an e-mail detailing how the ATDB has been of use to you and how you would
like to see it continue. You don't have to go overboard. A simple message
noting that the ATDB is the best invention since sliced bread or the Swiss
Army knife will do.

	Send your e-mail to me. If you are not sending it as a reply to this letter
my e-mail is "disenber@cdi.org". Thanks in advance for your help in this
matter. I look forward to your comments.

.
<hr>4/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-403</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-116</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4 194.10.201.200 19970108204321 text/html 2676
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:42:41 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2518
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 21 Jun 1996 12:47:56

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 
Subject: Seeking your comments on the CDI Arms Trade Database


								June 21, 1996

Dear Arms Trade Citation List Recipients:

	As you know CDI established and continues to develop an Arms Trade Database
(ATDB) devoted to numerous aspects of the conventional arms trade, such as
data from CRS, ACDA, the UN, and DSAA, info on landmine proliferation, small
arms, developments in industry, and much more.

	Each new list I send out includes references to new material loaded into
the ATDB. I know that some of you, going on the basis of past
conversations--have found this to be quite useful.

	As you may be aware keeping the ATDB going and up to date is both a
time-consuming and expensive endeavor. Much information must be scanned in
which requires the services of a temp worker who struggles to scan in the
huge piles of relevant material. It also requires a significant portion of
my time, as well as that of some of the interns. 

	Mind you, this is not a complaint; just the facts, as Jack Webb, put it.
However, our initial funding for the ATDB is drawing to a close and to keep
it going will require new funding. You can help.

	I am NOT asking for money. I know that you have limited funds and equally
important priorities. But, I would ask for just a couple of minutes of your
time. If you have found the ATDB useful to you please let us know. Your
comments and testimonials will be of great value to us as we go to
foundations and seek new funding. Please take just a few minutes to send us
an e-mail detailing how the ATDB has been of use to you and how you would
like to see it continue. You don't have to go overboard. A simple message
noting that the ATDB is the best invention since sliced bread or the Swiss
Army knife will do.

	Send your e-mail to me. If you are not sending it as a reply to this letter
my e-mail is "disenber@cdi.org". Thanks in advance for your help in this
matter. I look forward to your comments.

.
<hr>4/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=3&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-404</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204412 text/html 1182
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:43:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1024
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List
Date: 23 Jun 1996 03:19:24

From: "R.T. Naylor, Economics"  NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA 


Dear David

This note is just to let you know how useful, in fact essential, I 
have found the Citation list for my own work. At the present 
time I am compiling information for a book on the international arms 
black market funded by the John D. and Catherine MacArthur 
Foundation, and I  find the citation list an invaluable source.

Tom Naylor

Prof. R.T. Naylor
Department of Economics
McGill University
Montreal, Quebec
.
<hr>5/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-405</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-199</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5 194.10.201.200 19970108204455 text/html 1188
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:44:13 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1030
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: CDI Arms Trade Citation List
Date: 23 Jun 1996 03:19:24

From: "R.T. Naylor, Economics"  NAYLOR@HEPS.Lan.McGill.CA 


Dear David

This note is just to let you know how useful, in fact essential, I 
have found the Citation list for my own work. At the present 
time I am compiling information for a book on the international arms 
black market funded by the John D. and Catherine MacArthur 
Foundation, and I  find the citation list an invaluable source.

Tom Naylor

Prof. R.T. Naylor
Department of Economics
McGill University
Montreal, Quebec
.
<hr>5/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=4&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-406</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-239</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204543 text/html 13721
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:44:58 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13562
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: 24 Jun 1996 14:02:20

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 1996 13:59:00 +0200


European Parliament urges Member States again to halt arms
trade to Indonesia

Recently the European Parliament adopted a new resolution on
Indonesia and East Timor. This resolution is the result of two
resolutions brought forward on Indonesia and one on East
Timor. Watch Indonesia lobbied for a resolution on the release
of the former parliamentarian Dr. Sri-Bintang Pamungkas and
the condemnation of the unfair trials against him, AMOK-
Maritiem for an arms embargo on behalf of the European Network
Against Arms Trade and finally the increased military
repression was reason for a third resolution. Since 1994 the
European parliament adopted already four resolutions on East
Timor (17-11-94, 20-09-95) and East Timor and Indonesia (14-
12-95 and 19-06-96) in which arms trade was mentioned:

17-11-94:   "5.   Urges the member states to halt all military
                  aid and arms sales to Indonesia (...)

Unofficial translation from Portuguese:
20-09-95:   "4.   Calls on the International Community, in
                  particular the member states to halt all
                  military sales of arms and all military
                  assistance to Indonesia (...)

                  (Apela insistentemente  Comunidade
                  International, e nomendamente aos Estados-
                  membros, para gue cessem todas as vendas de
                  armas e toda a assistncia militar  Indonsi
                  (...))

14-12-95:   "6.   Calls again on the governments of the Member
                  States to cease all military assistance and
                  arms sales to Indonesia (...)

20-06-96    "7.   Reiterates its demand to the Member States of
                  the European Union to halt all military
                  assistance and all arms sales to Indonesia;"

Although the European Network Against Arms Trade asked for an
"arms embargo" to Indonesia this was not adopted by the
European Parliament. But in fact the difference between an
arms embargo and the request for a halt on all military
assistance and arms sales is not very big.

Hopefully this above mentioned clause from the following
resolution will be used to strengthen the opposition in the
member states of the EU against arms trade to Indonesia. 

Martin Broek

The following resolution on the situation in East Timor 
and the violation of human rights in Indonesia 
was adopted by the European Parliament in its Plenary Session 
in Strasbourg 20 June 1996
**************************************************************
*

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT

19 June 1996

                                                   
                                                B4-0764/RC1
                                                B4-0776/RC1
                                                B4-0777/RC1
                                                B4-0782/RC1
                                                B4-0784/RC1
                                                B4-0785/RC1
                                                B4-0800/RC1
                                                B4-0806/RC1
                                                B4-0817/RC1
                                                B4-0819/RC1
                                                B4-0825/RC1
                                                B4-0831/RC1


JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION (Rule 47)

by Barros Moura and d4Ancona, on behalf of the PSE Group
   Lucas Pires, Moorhouse and Dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of    
   the PPE Group 
   Vieira, Girao Pereira, Pasty and Baldi, 
   on behalf of the UPE Group Capucho, Pimenta, Cunha and      
   Porto,on behalf of the ELDR Group 
   Ribeiro, Vinci, Gutierrez Dias, Svensson, Elmalan and 
   Mohamad Ali, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group
   Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group
   Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of the ARE Group

to replace the motions for resolutions by:

- D'Ancona and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0764/96)
- de Melo and Cunha, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0776/96)
- Pimenta, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0777/96)
- Marinho and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0782/96)
- Vieira and others, on behalf of the UPE Group (B4-0784/96)
- Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of 
  the ARE Group (B4-0785/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0800/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0806/96)
- Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group             
  (B4-0817/96)
- McKenna, on behalf of the V Group (B4-0819/96)
- Moorhouse, on behalf of the PPE Group (B4-0825/96)
- Lucas Pires and others, on behalf of the PPE                 
  Group(B4-0831/96)

on the Situation in East Timor and the violation of human
rights in Indonesia

DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                        PE 250.944/RC1
                                            PE 250.957/RC1
                                            PE 250.958/RC1
                                            PE 250.963/RC1
                                            PE 250.965/RC1
                                            PE 250.966/RC1
                                            PE 250.981/RC1
                                            PE 250.987/RC1
                                            PE 250.998/RC1
                                            PE 251.000/RC1
                                            PE 251.006/RC1
                                            PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa    
         


                              - page 1 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT,

A. having regard to the illegal occupation of East Timor by 
Indonesia,

B. whereas Indonesian military repression against the
population of East Timor is continuing and has been stepped up
over recent days, particularly against young people,

C. deeply concerned at the incidents which occured in Baucau
between 9 and 11 June in the wake of the profanation of a
Catholic religious image, involving  protests by several
hundred young Timorese which where repressed by the 
Indonesian security forces, with at least two of the young
demonstrators being  killed, large numbers wounded and several
dozen being arrested, 

D. whereas the Indonesian government continues to ignore all
calls from the international community urging it to respect
human rights and the right of self-determination of the people
of East Timor, 

E. having regard to the developments following the approach
made by the Portuguese Prime Minister to the President of
Indonesia during the Euro-Asian  summit in Bangkok, 

F. having regard to the forthcoming meeting between the
Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers to be organized by
the UN Secretary-General, 

G. having regard to the fatal shooting of 25 year old Imanuel
Suares from East Timor on 7 June by the police in Jakarta,

H. whereas hundreds of political prisoners are still being
detained in Indonesia and in East Timor,

I. whereas the tension in Indonesia has been increasing, as
demonstrated by the incidents which have occured in Irian Jaya
(Western Papua), where young people clashed with soldiers, and
by the army4s brutal invasion of the university campus in
Ujung Pandang in order to stop a student demonstration
(protesting against a 150% increase in bus fares) which
resulted in the death of six young people,

J. whereas the Indonesian authorities accused the former
member of parliament Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas of being the
instigator of demonstrations in Germany,


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                    PE 250.944/RC1
                                        PE 250.957/RC1
                                        PE 250.958/RC1
                                        PE 250.963/RC1
                                        PE 250.965/RC1
                                        PE 250.966/RC1
                                        PE 250.981/RC1
                                        PE 250.987/RC1
                                        PE 250.998/RC1
                                        PE 251.000/RC1
                                        PE 251.006/RC1
                                        PE 251.012/RC1
                                                 Or.pa


                              - page 2 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

K. whereas this accusation was subsequently replaced by
another alleging that Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas had insulted
the President of the Republic of Indonesia during a lecture he
gave at the Technical University of Berlin on 9 April 1995,
which led to his being sentenced to 34 months4 imprisonment on
8 May 1996,

L. having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation
in East Timor and the violation of human rights in Indonesia,

1. Condemns once more the Indonesian military repression of
the people of East Timor and expresses its solidarity with the
victims and their families;

2. Deplores the provocative acts perpetrated by the
Indonesians against freedom of religion;

3. Reaffirms its solidarity with the people of East Timor in
their fight for self-determination, and its condemnation of
the illegal occupation of East Timor;

4. Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners,
including Mr Xanana Gusmao;

5. Reaffirms its support for the UN-sponsored negotiations now
under way aimed at resolving the problems of the basis of
respect for human rights and the right to self-determination;

6. Calls on the Indonesian government to respond to the
initiative of the Portuguese government;

7. Reiterates its demand to the Member States of the European
Union to halt all military assistance and all arms sales to
Indonesia;

8. Recalls its resolution of 1991 to send a delegation on a
fact-finding mission to East Timor and insists that the
Indonesian authorities should refrain from trying to prevent
this visit;

9. Demands that the Indonesian authorities drop the charge
against Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas, withdraw the sentence and
rehabilitate him;

10. Calls on the Indonesian government to guarantee the
exercise of free and fair trials in the future;


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                       PE 250.944/RC1
                                           PE 250.957/RC1
                                           PE 250.958/RC1
                                           PE 250.963/RC1
                                           PE 250.965/RC1
                                           PE 250.966/RC1
                                           PE 250.981/RC1
                                           PE 250.987/RC1
                                           PE 250.998/RC1
                                           PE 251.000/RC1
                                           PE 251.006/RC1
                                           PE 251.012/RC1
                                                    Or.pa


                         - page 3 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

11. Urges the Indonesian authorities to stop violating the
rights of peaceful critics and activists and to guarantee all
individuals, including independent journalists, their rights
to freedom of speech and association as expressed in
international declarations on human rights and in the
Indonesian Constitution;

12. Calls on the Commission to report on the situation in East
Timor and on the violation of human rights in Indonesia and to
take all the necessary steps in order to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>;

13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the
Council, the Commission, the parliaments of the Member States,
the Indonesian Government, the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.








DOC_EN\RE\302916                             PE 250.944/RC1
                                             PE 250.957/RC1
                                             PE 250.958/RC1
                                             PE 250.963/RC1
                                             PE 250.965/RC1
                                             PE 250.966/RC1
                                             PE 250.981/RC1
                                             PE 250.987/RC1
                                             PE 250.998/RC1
                                             PE 251.000/RC1
                                             PE 251.006/RC1
                                             PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa


                         - page 4 -

-------------------------------------------------------------



  
--- pgp key on request ---

.
<hr>6/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-407</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B013-293</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6 194.10.201.200 19970108204632 text/html 13727
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:45:44 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13568
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: 24 Jun 1996 14:02:20

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)
Subject: 4e EP-resolution urging member states to halt military sales to Indo
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 1996 13:59:00 +0200


European Parliament urges Member States again to halt arms
trade to Indonesia

Recently the European Parliament adopted a new resolution on
Indonesia and East Timor. This resolution is the result of two
resolutions brought forward on Indonesia and one on East
Timor. Watch Indonesia lobbied for a resolution on the release
of the former parliamentarian Dr. Sri-Bintang Pamungkas and
the condemnation of the unfair trials against him, AMOK-
Maritiem for an arms embargo on behalf of the European Network
Against Arms Trade and finally the increased military
repression was reason for a third resolution. Since 1994 the
European parliament adopted already four resolutions on East
Timor (17-11-94, 20-09-95) and East Timor and Indonesia (14-
12-95 and 19-06-96) in which arms trade was mentioned:

17-11-94:   "5.   Urges the member states to halt all military
                  aid and arms sales to Indonesia (...)

Unofficial translation from Portuguese:
20-09-95:   "4.   Calls on the International Community, in
                  particular the member states to halt all
                  military sales of arms and all military
                  assistance to Indonesia (...)

                  (Apela insistentemente  Comunidade
                  International, e nomendamente aos Estados-
                  membros, para gue cessem todas as vendas de
                  armas e toda a assistncia militar  Indonsi
                  (...))

14-12-95:   "6.   Calls again on the governments of the Member
                  States to cease all military assistance and
                  arms sales to Indonesia (...)

20-06-96    "7.   Reiterates its demand to the Member States of
                  the European Union to halt all military
                  assistance and all arms sales to Indonesia;"

Although the European Network Against Arms Trade asked for an
"arms embargo" to Indonesia this was not adopted by the
European Parliament. But in fact the difference between an
arms embargo and the request for a halt on all military
assistance and arms sales is not very big.

Hopefully this above mentioned clause from the following
resolution will be used to strengthen the opposition in the
member states of the EU against arms trade to Indonesia. 

Martin Broek

The following resolution on the situation in East Timor 
and the violation of human rights in Indonesia 
was adopted by the European Parliament in its Plenary Session 
in Strasbourg 20 June 1996
**************************************************************
*

EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT

19 June 1996

                                                   
                                                B4-0764/RC1
                                                B4-0776/RC1
                                                B4-0777/RC1
                                                B4-0782/RC1
                                                B4-0784/RC1
                                                B4-0785/RC1
                                                B4-0800/RC1
                                                B4-0806/RC1
                                                B4-0817/RC1
                                                B4-0819/RC1
                                                B4-0825/RC1
                                                B4-0831/RC1


JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION (Rule 47)

by Barros Moura and d4Ancona, on behalf of the PSE Group
   Lucas Pires, Moorhouse and Dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of    
   the PPE Group 
   Vieira, Girao Pereira, Pasty and Baldi, 
   on behalf of the UPE Group Capucho, Pimenta, Cunha and      
   Porto,on behalf of the ELDR Group 
   Ribeiro, Vinci, Gutierrez Dias, Svensson, Elmalan and 
   Mohamad Ali, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group
   Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group
   Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of the ARE Group

to replace the motions for resolutions by:

- D'Ancona and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0764/96)
- de Melo and Cunha, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0776/96)
- Pimenta, on behalf of the ELDR Group (B4-0777/96)
- Marinho and others, on behalf of the PSE Group (B4-0782/96)
- Vieira and others, on behalf of the UPE Group (B4-0784/96)
- Pradier and Vandemeulebroucke, on behalf of 
  the ARE Group (B4-0785/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0800/96)
- Ribeiro and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL                 
  Group(B4-0806/96)
- Telkaemper and McKenna, on behalf of the V Group             
  (B4-0817/96)
- McKenna, on behalf of the V Group (B4-0819/96)
- Moorhouse, on behalf of the PPE Group (B4-0825/96)
- Lucas Pires and others, on behalf of the PPE                 
  Group(B4-0831/96)

on the Situation in East Timor and the violation of human
rights in Indonesia

DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                        PE 250.944/RC1
                                            PE 250.957/RC1
                                            PE 250.958/RC1
                                            PE 250.963/RC1
                                            PE 250.965/RC1
                                            PE 250.966/RC1
                                            PE 250.981/RC1
                                            PE 250.987/RC1
                                            PE 250.998/RC1
                                            PE 251.000/RC1
                                            PE 251.006/RC1
                                            PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa    
         


                              - page 1 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT,

A. having regard to the illegal occupation of East Timor by 
Indonesia,

B. whereas Indonesian military repression against the
population of East Timor is continuing and has been stepped up
over recent days, particularly against young people,

C. deeply concerned at the incidents which occured in Baucau
between 9 and 11 June in the wake of the profanation of a
Catholic religious image, involving  protests by several
hundred young Timorese which where repressed by the 
Indonesian security forces, with at least two of the young
demonstrators being  killed, large numbers wounded and several
dozen being arrested, 

D. whereas the Indonesian government continues to ignore all
calls from the international community urging it to respect
human rights and the right of self-determination of the people
of East Timor, 

E. having regard to the developments following the approach
made by the Portuguese Prime Minister to the President of
Indonesia during the Euro-Asian  summit in Bangkok, 

F. having regard to the forthcoming meeting between the
Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers to be organized by
the UN Secretary-General, 

G. having regard to the fatal shooting of 25 year old Imanuel
Suares from East Timor on 7 June by the police in Jakarta,

H. whereas hundreds of political prisoners are still being
detained in Indonesia and in East Timor,

I. whereas the tension in Indonesia has been increasing, as
demonstrated by the incidents which have occured in Irian Jaya
(Western Papua), where young people clashed with soldiers, and
by the army4s brutal invasion of the university campus in
Ujung Pandang in order to stop a student demonstration
(protesting against a 150% increase in bus fares) which
resulted in the death of six young people,

J. whereas the Indonesian authorities accused the former
member of parliament Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas of being the
instigator of demonstrations in Germany,


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                    PE 250.944/RC1
                                        PE 250.957/RC1
                                        PE 250.958/RC1
                                        PE 250.963/RC1
                                        PE 250.965/RC1
                                        PE 250.966/RC1
                                        PE 250.981/RC1
                                        PE 250.987/RC1
                                        PE 250.998/RC1
                                        PE 251.000/RC1
                                        PE 251.006/RC1
                                        PE 251.012/RC1
                                                 Or.pa


                              - page 2 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

K. whereas this accusation was subsequently replaced by
another alleging that Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas had insulted
the President of the Republic of Indonesia during a lecture he
gave at the Technical University of Berlin on 9 April 1995,
which led to his being sentenced to 34 months4 imprisonment on
8 May 1996,

L. having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation
in East Timor and the violation of human rights in Indonesia,

1. Condemns once more the Indonesian military repression of
the people of East Timor and expresses its solidarity with the
victims and their families;

2. Deplores the provocative acts perpetrated by the
Indonesians against freedom of religion;

3. Reaffirms its solidarity with the people of East Timor in
their fight for self-determination, and its condemnation of
the illegal occupation of East Timor;

4. Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners,
including Mr Xanana Gusmao;

5. Reaffirms its support for the UN-sponsored negotiations now
under way aimed at resolving the problems of the basis of
respect for human rights and the right to self-determination;

6. Calls on the Indonesian government to respond to the
initiative of the Portuguese government;

7. Reiterates its demand to the Member States of the European
Union to halt all military assistance and all arms sales to
Indonesia;

8. Recalls its resolution of 1991 to send a delegation on a
fact-finding mission to East Timor and insists that the
Indonesian authorities should refrain from trying to prevent
this visit;

9. Demands that the Indonesian authorities drop the charge
against Mr Sri-Bintang Pamungkas, withdraw the sentence and
rehabilitate him;

10. Calls on the Indonesian government to guarantee the
exercise of free and fair trials in the future;


DOC_EN\RE\302\302916                       PE 250.944/RC1
                                           PE 250.957/RC1
                                           PE 250.958/RC1
                                           PE 250.963/RC1
                                           PE 250.965/RC1
                                           PE 250.966/RC1
                                           PE 250.981/RC1
                                           PE 250.987/RC1
                                           PE 250.998/RC1
                                           PE 251.000/RC1
                                           PE 251.006/RC1
                                           PE 251.012/RC1
                                                    Or.pa


                         - page 3 -

--------------------------------------------------------------

11. Urges the Indonesian authorities to stop violating the
rights of peaceful critics and activists and to guarantee all
individuals, including independent journalists, their rights
to freedom of speech and association as expressed in
international declarations on human rights and in the
Indonesian Constitution;

12. Calls on the Commission to report on the situation in East
Timor and on the violation of human rights in Indonesia and to
take all the necessary steps in order to do <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a>;

13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the
Council, the Commission, the parliaments of the Member States,
the Indonesian Government, the Secretary-General of the United
Nations and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.








DOC_EN\RE\302916                             PE 250.944/RC1
                                             PE 250.957/RC1
                                             PE 250.958/RC1
                                             PE 250.963/RC1
                                             PE 250.965/RC1
                                             PE 250.966/RC1
                                             PE 250.981/RC1
                                             PE 250.987/RC1
                                             PE 250.998/RC1
                                             PE 251.000/RC1
                                             PE 251.006/RC1
                                             PE 251.012/RC1
                                                      Or.pa


                         - page 4 -

-------------------------------------------------------------



  
--- pgp key on request ---

.
<hr>6/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=5&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-408</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-34</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204719 text/html 1936
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:46:37 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1778
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Indonesian Airshow
Date: 28 Jun 1996 14:36:05

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)

To late to act on but maybe informative for some.

The Indonesian Air show '69 and eurosatory '96: Tow shows and
the countries that host them come of age
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996, page 1
Editorial

On IAS of last weekend: (...) IPTN's CN-235 will be there. The
maritime patrol version combines the best of Indonesian
airframe technology with an advanced combat information system
designed by Boeing's ARGOSystems.
Russian Design Bureau Rubin will also be present with their
famed Projects 636 and Kilo [submarines] designs. These boats
are already a major success in Indian and Chinese service.
Should Rubin have success in Indonesia, Asia will find another
"black hole" lurking beneath the waves.
Alcatel SEL AG will be there. Alcatel is a leader in the
production if frequency hopping radio's. (...)
Bofors AB will be there with its fine range of guns.
Singapore Technologies will be present with systems range from
artillery to armoured vehicle and aircraft upgrades.
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd. will arrive to show its range of trainer
and border surveillance aircraft.
Leica, Oerlikon Contraves AG, Bae, Rosvoorouzhenie, Rostvertol
and other fine companies too numerous to mention will also be
there.


.
<hr>7/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-409</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-92</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7 194.10.201.200 19970108204803 text/html 1942
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:47:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1784
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Indonesian Airshow
Date: 28 Jun 1996 14:36:05

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)

To late to act on but maybe informative for some.

The Indonesian Air show '69 and eurosatory '96: Tow shows and
the countries that host them come of age
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996, page 1
Editorial

On IAS of last weekend: (...) IPTN's CN-235 will be there. The
maritime patrol version combines the best of Indonesian
airframe technology with an advanced combat information system
designed by Boeing's ARGOSystems.
Russian Design Bureau Rubin will also be present with their
famed Projects 636 and Kilo [submarines] designs. These boats
are already a major success in Indian and Chinese service.
Should Rubin have success in Indonesia, Asia will find another
"black hole" lurking beneath the waves.
Alcatel SEL AG will be there. Alcatel is a leader in the
production if frequency hopping radio's. (...)
Bofors AB will be there with its fine range of guns.
Singapore Technologies will be present with systems range from
artillery to armoured vehicle and aircraft upgrades.
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd. will arrive to show its range of trainer
and border surveillance aircraft.
Leica, Oerlikon Contraves AG, Bae, Rosvoorouzhenie, Rostvertol
and other fine companies too numerous to mention will also be
there.


.
<hr>7/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=6&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-410</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-160</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108204856 text/html 14156
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:48:10 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 13997
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Arms acquisitions in Indonesia
Date: 28 Jun 1996 15:12:45

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)


The following article comes from the Asian Defence Journal,
because it outlines the major arms procurement programs in
Indonesia I gave most of the text. The first two pages
are not inluded they are about the strategic situation in the
region and the external threat. This emphasis is also seen in
the second part of the article on the harware of ABRI it looks
like all arms are used to defende the country, but of course
readers of this conference know arms are being used in what is
described in the third part of the article the internal
threat. Although the writer uses the vocabulary of the regime
in power the second part makes it problably worth for those
opposing arms trade to the country to read it.


Defending Indonesia: An Update
By Mark G. Rolls
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996

(...)
"Certainly the issue of appropriate deployment of ABRI forces
(especially air force units) is exercising the minds of
Indonesian defence planners at the moment. In April, it was
disclosed that Armed Forces Chief, Gen Feisal Tanjung, has
been instructed to review the existing deployment of forces
with particular attention being given to the need to ensure
the adequate defence of 'strategic projects' such as the
Natuna islands, and of economic growth centres where Indonesia
is cooperating in sub-regional economic cooperation with its
ASEAN neighbours. There may also be a public relations aspect
to such a move, in sense of seeking to reassure investors
about the security of such areas. Following a large joint
exercise by the navy and air force near the Natunas in
December (which included four F-16's, a B737-200 MR plane,
seven warships and a submarine), the commander in charge of
the navy's western fleet, Rear admiral Widodo, was reported as
saying that investors "should not worry about security when
investing in this area.The air force has undoubtedly
considered the need to deploy its assets accordingly as part
of its ongoing development and procurement programme. This
programme is aimed at the strengthening of Indonesian air
defences through the development of a three-tiered AD-system
(radar; anti-aircraft artillery and missiles; and fighter
aircraft) in the crucial strategic locations around north
Sumatra and South Java.
The recent emphasis in this system is on the acquisition of
more fighter aircraft (both 'Hawks' and F-16's), partly to
replace ageing aircraft as well as, perhaps, attempt to re-
establish the regional air superiority which Indonesia enjoyed
in the 1960's.
In 1993, Indonesia ordered 24 British Aerospace (Bae) 'Hawks'
(14 Hawk-100 trainers and 10 Hawk-200 fighter variants), the
first three of which have now been delivered with the reminder
to follow over the next two years. Indonesia is now
negotiating the purchase of an additional 16 hawks (most
likely to be all 200's, bringing the total to 40 aircraft. The
deployment plan for the first 24 aircraft is that they will be
stationed at Pekanbaru, east Sumatra, replacing ageing A-4
'Skyhawks', in order to augment air defences in an arc from
north Sumatra to Central Java (possibly including the
Natunas). The additional 16 Hawk 200s will be deployed to
Pontianak, west Kalimantan, almost certainly to facilitate the
conduct of additional tactical air patrols over the Natuna
islands; Pontianak being only some 400km south of the main
Natuna island.
It had initially been thought that the procurement of the 16
additional Hawks would preclude the purchase of some of the
Pakistani F-16's currently in store in the US on the grounds
of cost. This was despite the US offering some of them for
sale to indonesia and Indonesia having a long-standing desire
to possess a full squadron of F-16's (currently it has 11 F-16
A/Bs). Doubts about the possibility of a purchase also
resolved around whether or not Indonesia would accept the
Pakistani F-16 A/B's on offer (perhaps preferring a more
advanced variant), and about the ongoing friction in
Indonesia's military relationship with America [on the passage
of warships through the archipelago, MB] which had seen
Indonesia make a deliberate effort to look elsewhere for arms.
It now appears, however, subject to the satisfactory outcome
of ongoing discussions over legal issues and offset
arrangements, that Indonesia will opt for 9 of the 28 F-16
A/B's available. Indonesia, it seems, especially given its
desire to augment its existing F-16's, has undoubtedly
persuaded by the very favourable terms on offer. Moreover, it
fits in with a traditional Indonesian procurement pattern,
which has sought to maximise its equipment holdings, whilst
minimising the cost out-lay on expensive state-of-the -art
technology, by opting for less advanced (often second-hand)
equipment.
The package of 9 Pakistani F-16 A/B's is reported to cost only
US$ 162 million and Indonesia is seeking to effectively reduce
the outlay of hard currency through an offset package which
could account for some 30% of the total. Significantly, the
offset package could see Indonesia persuading the US to
purchase aircraft components made by the state-run IPTN. The
role of Bae in securing a European airworthiness certificate
for IPTN's CN-235 utility aircraft has been cited as one of
the reasons for its success in selling Hawks. It may be the
case that by getting the US to procure IPTN-produced aircraft
components, Indonesia (and especially its Minister for
Research and Technology, B.J. Habibie) is preparing the ground
for future sales of his aircraft in the American market;
possibly the medium-range jet airliner which IPTN is
developing.
Facilitating the prospective F-16 deal has been a general
improvement in the climate of military relations between
Indonesia and the US. (...) [IMET see reports of Charles
Scheiner, MB]
If air force modernisation and expansion has been seen as
important, then that of the navy, especially given the
increasing territorial waters, must be seen as crucial.
Indeed, the defence white paper makes explicit the need for
naval expansion with the section on the navy's development
stating that "material developments calls for the acquisition
of ships <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> that by the end of the Sixth Five-year Plan it
will have 127 ships." [Currently, the navy's total strength
(all categories including support, is 94 ships, although this
does not include all the East German vessels many of which are
not yet operational. The Military Balance 1995-116]. Given the
prevalence of low intensity threats noted earlier, the
emphasis in expansion is to be on "more patrol boats for
operation in shallow and narrow waters." 
The ongoing process of expansion, though, is somewhat
problematic in practice, centring as it does, on the 1993
purchase of 39 ex-Est German ships (including corvettes, LST's
and minehunters. Although broadly in line with naval
procurement requirements, it is notable that their acquisition
was influenced by B.J Habibie's attempt to link their purchase
with his ambitious plans for the development of Indonesia's
shipbuilding and repair facilities revolving around state-run
PT Pal.
The costs of the attendant support facilities (especially
given Ministry of Defence opposition to the purchase) has been
deemed prohibitive by the Finance Ministry, which has limited
the amount it is prepared to finance the vessels purchase and
refurbishment to $319 million. The wrangling over the
allocation of funds for refurbishment, and the limited amounts
proposed, has undoubtedly delayed the actual refurbishment of
many of these ships meaning that few are yet operational and,
even then, they will have limited capabilities. It is
arguable, however, that the acquisition of the East German
ships should be seen in the context of Indonesia's traditional
procurement pattern and, in fact, they may only be designed to
provide a transitional capability.
Future expansion plans, therefor, should be seen more in terms
of the construction by PT Pal of four more PB-57 patrol craft
[license of Lrssen Germany, MB], due to be delivered in 1997.
It is feasible tat the demand for more patrol craft to fulfil
a long-term requirement may be met by domestic production of
more such vessels. This may be part of a process by which
Indonesia seeks to develop its indigenous defence industries
("Defence industries are planned to attain the capability of
supplying and maintaining most of the Indonesian Armed Forces'
materiel needs."); a process which has been somewhat stop-
start over the past decade despite similar statements
previously. PT Pal has been trying to develop its expertise in
naval shipbuilding over the past few years through, e.g.,
collaborating with British shipbuilder Swan Hunter on the
refit of an ex-Royal Navy 'Rover' small class fleet tanker
('Arun'), which included a technology transfer component.
Ambitious plans for a 20 (or 30) indigenous frigate-building
programme are on hold, due to financial constraints, is the
Indonesian plan to double its submarine fleet (currently
consisting of two German T-209's) to four, which has been
deemed a 'minimum' requirement.
Whilst there have been limitations on the funding of the
purchase and refurbishment of the east German ships, a new
naval base at Telex Ratai, southern Sumatra, is being
developed to support their operation. Certainly, the
development of new naval bases is regarded as an important
component of Indonesia territorial waters by facilitating the
expansion of the navy's coverage of them. Two new bases at
Sibolga west Sumatra, and the Aru Islands are being developed,
and there are also plans to construct a naval port on the
Natuna islands ready for the commencement of the
aforementioned gas project.
Lastly, in terms of service modernisation (and it is
'modernisation' of existing capabilities rather tan
'expansion') the army is to acquire new equipment to improve
its armoured capabilities. It was confirmed in March last year
that Indonesia was to purchase 50 Alvis 'Scorpions'. Of these,
30 were expected to be Scorpion 90 light tanks with a 90mm
cannon [from Belgium; Cockerill, MB]; 2 were to be the command
version of the 'Stormer' variant; and the remainder a mix of
ambulance and transport versions of the Stormer. The first
deliveries (reportedly 26 Scorpions and 2 Stormer command
versions) began in October. The Scorpions are due to replace
some of the ageing Dutch AMX-13's which Indonesia acquired in
the 1970's. In addition, Indonesia is also upgrading limited
numbers of its existing 'Ferret', 'Saladin' and 'Saracen'
APC's to extend further their already long service lives.

(...)

The defence and security budget for 1996/97 remains at 1.5% of
GDP although the figure of US$ 3,32 billion is a 19% increase
over the one last year. This represents a significant
increase, but it is still less tan the 25% increase which the
Ministry of Defence had requested, partially to fund arms
purchases.

(...)

Though Indonesia has been very successful in pursuing policies
which have lowered poverty levels, given the background of
sustained economic growth , it appears that the ongoing
process of socio-economic change has led t problems which
challenge the preservation of internal stability. notable in
this respect is one of the unintended consequences of
sustained economic growth which has been increasing
disparities in income and wealth. Such disparities combined
with apparent frustration over the rather halting process of
political development has led to increased social unrest over
the past few years. This has been evinced most recently in a
series of student demonstrations in several Javanese cities
and the capital of Sulawesi, Ujung Pandang.
Fomenting some of the social unrest, by exploiting the
widening gap between rich and poor; ABRI believes (at least in
public), are elements associated with the banned Indonesian
Communist Party (the PKI). These are now thought to be
operating as 'new style' communists, or, <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a>-called 'formless
organisations.' In actuality, however, it may be that the
threat to stability lies with the re-emergence of another
traditional ABRI concern, islamic extremists. Last year, it
had been reported, the military arrested over 400 supporters
of the concept of 'Negara Islam Indonesia,' which calls for an
Islamic state.
Whatever the case, ABRI remains acutely concerned about the
threat which social unrest poses to Indonesia's security and
stability; a concern which is inextricable linked to ABRI's
historic 'dwifungsi' (dual-function) doctrine. (...)
The main threat to Indonesia's unity has been identified as
lying in the separatist movements which are ongoing in Irian
Jaya and East Timor. The fear is that these movements
continued existence could provide an example for other
disaffected groups. The 'military' threat posed by the OPM and
Fretilin remains low-key and manageable despite a recent
upsurge in insurgent activity. (...) Separatism however,
remains a very intractable problems which is likely to remain
a threat to Indonesia's archipelago-wide political stability
for the foreseeable future.
For ABRI ten, 'dwifungsi', whatever its merits in the
Indonesian context, inevitably means a divided focus. Given
the continued challenges to internal stability, at a time of
potential significance, it will be a demanding task for ABRI
to fully develop its external capabilities whilst it also
keeps watch on the home front.






.
<hr>8/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-411</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-215</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8 194.10.201.200 19970108204945 text/html 14162
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:49:01 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 14003
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: Amokmar@amokmar.antenna.nl
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Arms acquisitions in Indonesia
Date: 28 Jun 1996 15:12:45

From: martin@amokmar.antenna.nl (Martin Broek)


The following article comes from the Asian Defence Journal,
because it outlines the major arms procurement programs in
Indonesia I gave most of the text. The first two pages
are not inluded they are about the strategic situation in the
region and the external threat. This emphasis is also seen in
the second part of the article on the harware of ABRI it looks
like all arms are used to defende the country, but of course
readers of this conference know arms are being used in what is
described in the third part of the article the internal
threat. Although the writer uses the vocabulary of the regime
in power the second part makes it problably worth for those
opposing arms trade to the country to read it.


Defending Indonesia: An Update
By Mark G. Rolls
Asian Defence Journal 6/1996

(...)
"Certainly the issue of appropriate deployment of ABRI forces
(especially air force units) is exercising the minds of
Indonesian defence planners at the moment. In April, it was
disclosed that Armed Forces Chief, Gen Feisal Tanjung, has
been instructed to review the existing deployment of forces
with particular attention being given to the need to ensure
the adequate defence of 'strategic projects' such as the
Natuna islands, and of economic growth centres where Indonesia
is cooperating in sub-regional economic cooperation with its
ASEAN neighbours. There may also be a public relations aspect
to such a move, in sense of seeking to reassure investors
about the security of such areas. Following a large joint
exercise by the navy and air force near the Natunas in
December (which included four F-16's, a B737-200 MR plane,
seven warships and a submarine), the commander in charge of
the navy's western fleet, Rear admiral Widodo, was reported as
saying that investors "should not worry about security when
investing in this area.The air force has undoubtedly
considered the need to deploy its assets accordingly as part
of its ongoing development and procurement programme. This
programme is aimed at the strengthening of Indonesian air
defences through the development of a three-tiered AD-system
(radar; anti-aircraft artillery and missiles; and fighter
aircraft) in the crucial strategic locations around north
Sumatra and South Java.
The recent emphasis in this system is on the acquisition of
more fighter aircraft (both 'Hawks' and F-16's), partly to
replace ageing aircraft as well as, perhaps, attempt to re-
establish the regional air superiority which Indonesia enjoyed
in the 1960's.
In 1993, Indonesia ordered 24 British Aerospace (Bae) 'Hawks'
(14 Hawk-100 trainers and 10 Hawk-200 fighter variants), the
first three of which have now been delivered with the reminder
to follow over the next two years. Indonesia is now
negotiating the purchase of an additional 16 hawks (most
likely to be all 200's, bringing the total to 40 aircraft. The
deployment plan for the first 24 aircraft is that they will be
stationed at Pekanbaru, east Sumatra, replacing ageing A-4
'Skyhawks', in order to augment air defences in an arc from
north Sumatra to Central Java (possibly including the
Natunas). The additional 16 Hawk 200s will be deployed to
Pontianak, west Kalimantan, almost certainly to facilitate the
conduct of additional tactical air patrols over the Natuna
islands; Pontianak being only some 400km south of the main
Natuna island.
It had initially been thought that the procurement of the 16
additional Hawks would preclude the purchase of some of the
Pakistani F-16's currently in store in the US on the grounds
of cost. This was despite the US offering some of them for
sale to indonesia and Indonesia having a long-standing desire
to possess a full squadron of F-16's (currently it has 11 F-16
A/Bs). Doubts about the possibility of a purchase also
resolved around whether or not Indonesia would accept the
Pakistani F-16 A/B's on offer (perhaps preferring a more
advanced variant), and about the ongoing friction in
Indonesia's military relationship with America [on the passage
of warships through the archipelago, MB] which had seen
Indonesia make a deliberate effort to look elsewhere for arms.
It now appears, however, subject to the satisfactory outcome
of ongoing discussions over legal issues and offset
arrangements, that Indonesia will opt for 9 of the 28 F-16
A/B's available. Indonesia, it seems, especially given its
desire to augment its existing F-16's, has undoubtedly
persuaded by the very favourable terms on offer. Moreover, it
fits in with a traditional Indonesian procurement pattern,
which has sought to maximise its equipment holdings, whilst
minimising the cost out-lay on expensive state-of-the -art
technology, by opting for less advanced (often second-hand)
equipment.
The package of 9 Pakistani F-16 A/B's is reported to cost only
US$ 162 million and Indonesia is seeking to effectively reduce
the outlay of hard currency through an offset package which
could account for some 30% of the total. Significantly, the
offset package could see Indonesia persuading the US to
purchase aircraft components made by the state-run IPTN. The
role of Bae in securing a European airworthiness certificate
for IPTN's CN-235 utility aircraft has been cited as one of
the reasons for its success in selling Hawks. It may be the
case that by getting the US to procure IPTN-produced aircraft
components, Indonesia (and especially its Minister for
Research and Technology, B.J. Habibie) is preparing the ground
for future sales of his aircraft in the American market;
possibly the medium-range jet airliner which IPTN is
developing.
Facilitating the prospective F-16 deal has been a general
improvement in the climate of military relations between
Indonesia and the US. (...) [IMET see reports of Charles
Scheiner, MB]
If air force modernisation and expansion has been seen as
important, then that of the navy, especially given the
increasing territorial waters, must be seen as crucial.
Indeed, the defence white paper makes explicit the need for
naval expansion with the section on the navy's development
stating that "material developments calls for the acquisition
of ships <a name=L10001></a><a href=#L10002>so</a> that by the end of the Sixth Five-year Plan it
will have 127 ships." [Currently, the navy's total strength
(all categories including support, is 94 ships, although this
does not include all the East German vessels many of which are
not yet operational. The Military Balance 1995-116]. Given the
prevalence of low intensity threats noted earlier, the
emphasis in expansion is to be on "more patrol boats for
operation in shallow and narrow waters." 
The ongoing process of expansion, though, is somewhat
problematic in practice, centring as it does, on the 1993
purchase of 39 ex-Est German ships (including corvettes, LST's
and minehunters. Although broadly in line with naval
procurement requirements, it is notable that their acquisition
was influenced by B.J Habibie's attempt to link their purchase
with his ambitious plans for the development of Indonesia's
shipbuilding and repair facilities revolving around state-run
PT Pal.
The costs of the attendant support facilities (especially
given Ministry of Defence opposition to the purchase) has been
deemed prohibitive by the Finance Ministry, which has limited
the amount it is prepared to finance the vessels purchase and
refurbishment to $319 million. The wrangling over the
allocation of funds for refurbishment, and the limited amounts
proposed, has undoubtedly delayed the actual refurbishment of
many of these ships meaning that few are yet operational and,
even then, they will have limited capabilities. It is
arguable, however, that the acquisition of the East German
ships should be seen in the context of Indonesia's traditional
procurement pattern and, in fact, they may only be designed to
provide a transitional capability.
Future expansion plans, therefor, should be seen more in terms
of the construction by PT Pal of four more PB-57 patrol craft
[license of Lrssen Germany, MB], due to be delivered in 1997.
It is feasible tat the demand for more patrol craft to fulfil
a long-term requirement may be met by domestic production of
more such vessels. This may be part of a process by which
Indonesia seeks to develop its indigenous defence industries
("Defence industries are planned to attain the capability of
supplying and maintaining most of the Indonesian Armed Forces'
materiel needs."); a process which has been somewhat stop-
start over the past decade despite similar statements
previously. PT Pal has been trying to develop its expertise in
naval shipbuilding over the past few years through, e.g.,
collaborating with British shipbuilder Swan Hunter on the
refit of an ex-Royal Navy 'Rover' small class fleet tanker
('Arun'), which included a technology transfer component.
Ambitious plans for a 20 (or 30) indigenous frigate-building
programme are on hold, due to financial constraints, is the
Indonesian plan to double its submarine fleet (currently
consisting of two German T-209's) to four, which has been
deemed a 'minimum' requirement.
Whilst there have been limitations on the funding of the
purchase and refurbishment of the east German ships, a new
naval base at Telex Ratai, southern Sumatra, is being
developed to support their operation. Certainly, the
development of new naval bases is regarded as an important
component of Indonesia territorial waters by facilitating the
expansion of the navy's coverage of them. Two new bases at
Sibolga west Sumatra, and the Aru Islands are being developed,
and there are also plans to construct a naval port on the
Natuna islands ready for the commencement of the
aforementioned gas project.
Lastly, in terms of service modernisation (and it is
'modernisation' of existing capabilities rather tan
'expansion') the army is to acquire new equipment to improve
its armoured capabilities. It was confirmed in March last year
that Indonesia was to purchase 50 Alvis 'Scorpions'. Of these,
30 were expected to be Scorpion 90 light tanks with a 90mm
cannon [from Belgium; Cockerill, MB]; 2 were to be the command
version of the 'Stormer' variant; and the remainder a mix of
ambulance and transport versions of the Stormer. The first
deliveries (reportedly 26 Scorpions and 2 Stormer command
versions) began in October. The Scorpions are due to replace
some of the ageing Dutch AMX-13's which Indonesia acquired in
the 1970's. In addition, Indonesia is also upgrading limited
numbers of its existing 'Ferret', 'Saladin' and 'Saracen'
APC's to extend further their already long service lives.

(...)

The defence and security budget for 1996/97 remains at 1.5% of
GDP although the figure of US$ 3,32 billion is a 19% increase
over the one last year. This represents a significant
increase, but it is still less tan the 25% increase which the
Ministry of Defence had requested, partially to fund arms
purchases.

(...)

Though Indonesia has been very successful in pursuing policies
which have lowered poverty levels, given the background of
sustained economic growth , it appears that the ongoing
process of socio-economic change has led t problems which
challenge the preservation of internal stability. notable in
this respect is one of the unintended consequences of
sustained economic growth which has been increasing
disparities in income and wealth. Such disparities combined
with apparent frustration over the rather halting process of
political development has led to increased social unrest over
the past few years. This has been evinced most recently in a
series of student demonstrations in several Javanese cities
and the capital of Sulawesi, Ujung Pandang.
Fomenting some of the social unrest, by exploiting the
widening gap between rich and poor; ABRI believes (at least in
public), are elements associated with the banned Indonesian
Communist Party (the PKI). These are now thought to be
operating as 'new style' communists, or, <a name=L10002></a><a href=#L10003>so</a>-called 'formless
organisations.' In actuality, however, it may be that the
threat to stability lies with the re-emergence of another
traditional ABRI concern, islamic extremists. Last year, it
had been reported, the military arrested over 400 supporters
of the concept of 'Negara Islam Indonesia,' which calls for an
Islamic state.
Whatever the case, ABRI remains acutely concerned about the
threat which social unrest poses to Indonesia's security and
stability; a concern which is inextricable linked to ABRI's
historic 'dwifungsi' (dual-function) doctrine. (...)
The main threat to Indonesia's unity has been identified as
lying in the separatist movements which are ongoing in Irian
Jaya and East Timor. The fear is that these movements
continued existence could provide an example for other
disaffected groups. The 'military' threat posed by the OPM and
Fretilin remains low-key and manageable despite a recent
upsurge in insurgent activity. (...) Separatism however,
remains a very intractable problems which is likely to remain
a threat to Indonesia's archipelago-wide political stability
for the foreseeable future.
For ABRI ten, 'dwifungsi', whatever its merits in the
Indonesian context, inevitably means a divided focus. Given
the continued challenges to internal stability, at a time of
potential significance, it will be a demanding task for ABRI
to fully develop its external capabilities whilst it also
keeps watch on the home front.






.
<hr>8/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=7&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-412</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-263</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108205031 text/html 1528
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:49:51 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1370
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ggs2@columbia.edu
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 29 Jun 1996 11:29:55

From: Gary G Sick  ggs2@columbia.edu 
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar

Dear David,

As you know, I operate an electronic library for specialists on Persian
Gulf economics, politics, and security. I have come to rely on the CDI
Arms Trade Data Base as the most reliable and comprehensive check of my
own research on new publications and data on arms transfers to the Middle
East. 

As a fellow practitioner, I understand how much time and effort goes into
the creation (and timely publication) of such information. I also
appreciate as a consumer the value of receiving this information in a
relaible and usable format, instead of being required to search for it on
the Internet and elsewhere.

Keep up the good work!

Gary Sick
Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University
Executive Director, The Gulf/2000 Project

.
<hr>9/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-413</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-307</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9 194.10.201.200 19970108205116 text/html 1534
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:50:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1376
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: ggs2@columbia.edu
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar
Date: 29 Jun 1996 11:29:55

From: Gary G Sick  ggs2@columbia.edu 
Subject: Re: Seeking your comments on the CDI Ar

Dear David,

As you know, I operate an electronic library for specialists on Persian
Gulf economics, politics, and security. I have come to rely on the CDI
Arms Trade Data Base as the most reliable and comprehensive check of my
own research on new publications and data on arms transfers to the Middle
East. 

As a fellow practitioner, I understand how much time and effort goes into
the creation (and timely publication) of such information. I also
appreciate as a consumer the value of receiving this information in a
relaible and usable format, instead of being required to search for it on
the Internet and elsewhere.

Keep up the good work!

Gary Sick
Senior Research Scholar, Columbia University
Executive Director, The Gulf/2000 Project

.
<hr>9/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=(null)">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=8&rg=(null)">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=(null)">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT25-B21-414</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA026-000271-B014-370</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.knooppunt.be:80/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=10&rg=1-40 194.10.201.200 19970108205203 text/html 16136
HTTP/1.0 200 Document follows
MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 21:51:17 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 15977
</DOCHDR>
<a href=#L10000> Follow keywords </a><pre>
<a name=L10000></a><a href=#L10001>So</a>: U-vre
From: disenber@cdi.org
Newsgroups: gn.armstrade
Subject: CDI Arms Trade Citation List No. 53
Date: 28 Jun 1996 13:52:57

From: David Isenberg  disenber@cdi.org 


	Arms Trade Citations: CDI List No. 53
 
 Compiled by David Isenberg             			June 28, 1996
 
	ATTENTION
 Copies of this list are available in two electronic formats. For those in
the  local Washington, D.C. area the list is sent either by group fax or
e-mail. For  those outside the local area it will be sent to those who have
E-mail  addresses. If you have an E-mail address and wish to receive the
list please  provide it to CDI, attn. David Isenberg. If you live in the
area please provide  your fax number. The list is also available on the
following Peacenet conferences: cdi.military, disarm.armstrade, and
disarm.landmine. For  further info contact David Isenberg at CDI, Tel: (202)
862-0700; Fax:  202/862-0708. E-mail address is disenber@cdi.org.
 
 Arms Trade Citation Lists are also available through the CDI Arms Trade
Database where they, and the rest of the database, can be searched by
keyword. Set your browser to <a href=http://www.cdi.org/atdb>http://www.cdi.org/atdb</a>


  Small Arms Management and Peacekeeping in Southern Africa, United Nations
Institute for Disarmament Research, Disarmament and Conflict Resolution
Project, UNIDIR/96/21, 114pp.

  AIA [Aerospace Industries Association] Update, June 1996, "U.S. Pursues
International Discussion on Offsets," pp. 1, 4.

  Jane's Defence Contracts, USA and Norway join on missile accord, p. ; and
[US] Missile activity from Portugal to Taiwan," p. 5.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 5 June 1996, "Germany plans to ease defence
exports," p. 8; "Philippines to make fighter decision soon,"p. 11; and
"Seoul '96 [aerospace exhibition] joins show scene," p. 11.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 12 June 1996, "First European showing for Russian
systems," p. 4.

  Jane's Defence Weekly, 19 June 1996, "Surplus US fighters swell Israel's
air fleet," pp. 59, 61, 63-64, and 67.

  Far Eastern Economic Review, June 20, 1996, "Flying Into Flak: Controversy
mires major arms deals in Pakistan," pp. 15-16.

  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Jordan F-16s Will Counter Iraqi, Syrian
Threat, Pentagon Says," p. 5; and "`Russia Competing Aggressively For
Africa's Market'", pp. 12, 13.

  Aviation Week & Space Technology, June 24, 1996, "U.S. Contractors Commit
Early to Paris Air Show," p. 31.

  Washington Post, June 24, 1996, "Arms Trade Menaces U.S. Security, Panel
Says: Clinton-Appointed Group Urges Restraint in Selling Conventional
Weapons to Other Countries," p. A9.

  Aerospace Daily, June 25, 1996, "Lockheed Martin F-16 team visits Poland,"
p. 493.

  Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy, by
Dr. Janne E. Nolan, Chair, Edward Randolph Jane II, Ronald F. Lehman, David
E. McGiffert, Paul C. Warnke, Publicly released June 25, 31pp. (Available in
its entirety in the Arms Trade Database; see below ATDB listings ) Also
released as a companion study was RAND monograph Arms Proliferation Policy:
Support to the Presidential Advisory Board by Marcy Agmon, James L. Bonomo,
Michael Kennedy, Maren Leed, Kenneth Watman, Katharine Webb and Charles
Wolf, Jr., (MR-771-OSD), 132pp. (Abstract available in database; see below)

  Defense News, June 24-30, 1996, "Panel: Security, Not Economy
 Should Drive U.S. Arms Sales," pp. 1, 76; "U.S. Readies Stinger Missile
Package for Taiwan," p. 3; "Europeans To Gain Ground in East Asian Arms
Market: Export Restrictions, Policies Hamper U.S. Growth in Region," p. 36;
"Export Variants Give U.S. Options," [op-ed] p. 45; "Yeltsin's Moves May
Calm U.S. About Arms Trade With Iran," p. 54; "Rising Costs May Scuttle
Pakistani Mirage Purchase," p. 58

Landmines
  International Security Digest, Vol. 3, No. 7, May 1996, "Convention on
Conventional Weapons Ends With Limited Results - Other Avenues Must be
Sought to Ban Landmines." 
  The Military Utility of Landmines.......?, Edited by Dr. Chris Smith,
North-South Defence and Security Programme, Centre for Defence Studies,
King's College, University of London, June 1996, 104pp. Contents include:
Background and Context, History of Antipersonnel Mines; Current Trends in
Landmine Technology; Landmines and the Czech Republic, Landmines and
Finland; Landmines and Sweden; Landmines and Germany; Landmines and the
United Kingdom; Do Landmines Have a Military Utility?; and Alternatives to APM.
  Jane's Defence Contracts, "UK Barmine to receive short-term face-lift," p. 4; 
  Congressional Record, June 19, 1996, "House Provision on Antipersonnel
Landmines," pp. S6483-S6484.
  Defense Week, June 24, 1996, "Full Slate of Counter-Mine Tools Due in
Bosnia By Fall," p. 3; and "Airborne Mine-hunter Could Fly Over Bosnia by
September," pp. 3, 5.
  The Nation, July 1, 1996, "Clinton's Minefield," pp. 5-6

 New Additions to the CDI Arms Trade Database
  The bibliographies for Bahrain, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi
Arabia have been updated.
  (Just Came Out! Be the first on your block to download this.)
- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy. At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.presadvi.txt
- Arms Proliferation Policy: Support to the Presidential Advisory Board.
(Abstract) At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.control/.u.s/.armspoli/.rand.txt
  CCW Landmine Review Conference Documents (Continued from last list)
- Press Release: United Kingdom Pledges Active Support For A Global Ban on
Anti-Personnel Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.uksuppor.txt
- Proposed Changes to Article 14 of the President's Text, United Kingdom,
CCW, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.propuk.txt
- Protocol II: President's Papers and Technical Annex: Article 2:
Definitions, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.proto2.txt
- Report of Main Committee I, CCW, May 1, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.maincom1.txt
- Report of the Credentials Committee, CCW, May 2, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.credenti.txt
- Statement by African Landmine Victim, CCW, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moon.txt
- Statement by Bosnian Landmine Victim, CCW, April 25, 1996, At 
 gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.pero.txt
 - Statement by Cambodian Landmine Victim, May 3, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.channare.txt
- Statement by Handicap International, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker.txt
- Statement by Trade Unionists of Valsella Factory, Italy, April 24, 1996,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.tradital.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Japan, Head of Japanese Delegation, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.kurokoch.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of Norway, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.skogmo.txt
- Statement by the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.shazukan.txt
- Statement by the Delegation of Canada, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.moher.txt
- Statement by the Deputy Leader of the Delegation of India, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sood.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker3.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Australian Delegation, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.walker2.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Belgian Delegation, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.guillaun.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Brazilian Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.filho.txt
- Statement by the Head of the Irish Delegation, May 3, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.anderson.txt
- Statement by the President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, April 22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.icrcstat.txt
- Statement by the Program Director, Human Rights Arms Project, January 19,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goose.txt
- Statement by the Representative of Italy on behalf of the European Union,
At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.italy.txt
- Statement by the Vice-President of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, May 3, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.roethlis.txt
- Statement by Jody Williams, Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.williams.txt
- Statement by the U.N. Department of Humanitarian Affairs to the review
conference of the States Parties of the Convention on CCW, April 22, 1996, At 
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.humanita.txt
- Sweden's Landmine Defense, from Swedish Save the Children, March 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sweden.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Belgium, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techbelg.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by Canada, CCW, April 25, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techcana.txt
- Technical Annex, Proposal Submitted by France, CCW, April 24, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.techfran.txt
- The Good News/The Bad News, Prepared by Human Rights Watch Arms Project,
April 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.good%26bad.txt
- The New Protocol--Not A Step Out of the Minefield, International Campaign
to Ban Landmines, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.notastep.txt
- Chap. 17 of SIPRI Yearbook 1996, "The Review Conference of the Inhumane
Weapons Convention," At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.goldblat.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Review Conference on the CCW, April 16,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.confresu.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, April
22, 1996, At
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen2.txt
- United Nations Press Release: Statement of the Secretary-General, May 3,
1996, At gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.sec-gen.txt
- We Are Outraged, International Campaign to Ban Landmines, May 1, 1996
gopher://gopher.cdi.org:70/0/.atdb/.landmine/.u.n/.ccw/.outraged.txt

  Quotes of the Day
	"The extent of human rights abuses associated with armed conflict, as well
as the  increasingly sophisticated technological environment, means that
Amnesty International has to intensify its work to address the conduct of
security forces, and their international partners. When transfers of
equipment, technology, or training can reasonably be assumed to contribute
to human rights abuses, Amnesty International Campaigns against them.
	...Legislation and regulations should be established at national and
international level. These should prohibit any transfer of military,
security or police equipment, technology, training or personnel -- as well
as financial and logistical support for such transfers -- unless it can be
reasonably demonstrated that such transfers will not contribute to grave
human rights violations. These laws and regulations should ensure that the
human rights situation in the receiving country is taken into consideration
before any decision to approve a transfer. The supplier government should
take responsibility for the use of transfers through regular monitoring and
legally binding "end-user certificates" citing human rights criteria. All
information necessary to allow the country's legislative assembly to
exercise proper control over the implementation of the law should be
supplied and all transfers should be publicly disclosed in advance."
		-- Amnesty International Report 1996, pp. 17-18

	Blowback
	"All through 1985, we poured weapons into Afghanistan--heavy machine guns,
SA-7s, and the Oerlikon antiaircraft cannons, all of which began to produce
increasing aircraft losses for the Soviets. In addition to large increases
in weapons, we improved the logistics base and our ability to bring the
weapons, ammunition, food, and clothing to those inside Afghanistan--laying
the basis for the extraordinary Mujahedin success in 1986 and 1987. (This
included importing thousands of Chinese mules in Afghanistan to transport
weapons. We could not find enough suitable U.S. mules to meet our needs.)
Funds for 1986 were increased by more than $125 million over 1985, to be
used to buy many more weapons of all kinds.
	It was during this period that we began to learn of a significant increase
in the number of Arab nationals from other countries who had traveled to
Afghanistan to fight in the Holy War against the Soviets. They came from
Syria, Iraq, Algeria, and elsewhere, and most fought with the Islamic
fundamentalist Muj groups, particularly that headed by Abdul Rasul Sayyaf.
We examined ways to increase their participation, perhaps in the form of
some sort of "international brigade," but nothing came of it. Years later,
these fundamentalist fighters trained by the Mujahedin in Afghanistan would
begin to show up around the world, from the Middle East to New York City,
still fighting their Holy War--only now including the United States among
their enemies. Our mission was to push the Soviets out of Afghanistan. We
expected post-Soviet Afghanistan to be ugly, but never considered that it
would become a haven for terrorists operating worldwide."
From the Shadows: The Ultimate Insider's Story of Five Presidents and How
They Won The Cold War, Robert M. Gates (Former Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency) p. 349.

	Are you listening, Joel Johnson?
	"The Board finds that U.S. arms transfer policy can and should be developed
and executed separately from issues of maintenance of the defense industrial
base, which we believe are better handled by specific DoD industrial base
policy. We do not believe that arms sales that would be rejected on the
basis of foreign policy and national security considerations should be
approved simply to preserve jobs or keep a production line open. The Board
believes it is essential that the U.S. government takes steps to make this
policy clear at home and abroad."  (Pp. 15-16)
	AND
	"The Board rejects any notion that stepping back from well-conceived arms
restraint policies is the way to ensure the health of our defense industrial
base. The radical restructuring and adjustment to much smaller markets in
the world's defense industries will, as the RAND and other studies document,
continue in the foreseeable future. The export market is much too small to
offset the overall decline in defense procurement. Hence, the existence of
export sales opportunities for U.S. firms, while obviously valuable inn
preserving jobs and production lines in many cases, will not be sufficient
to allow the affected companies to forgo the downsizing required for their
survival." 
-- Report of the Presidential Advisory Board on Arms Proliferation Policy

.
<hr>10/698  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&rg=1-40">  Back to list </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&in=f">  Search </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=9&rg=1-40">  Previous </a>  <a href="/cgi-bin/ftw?menu=1.12&q=so&in=11&rg=1-40">  Next </a></pre><hr>
 MIT FTDB -- (c) 1993-1996  Gert van Velzen
</DOC>
