<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-1</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B020-458</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/gt42.html 205.156.212.5 19970115021634 text/html 70382
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:14:41 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:49:58 GMT
Content-length: 70193
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/gt42.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet <BR>
January 01, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI> Transcript of Presidential Radio Address to the Nation</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1211 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI> Transcript of Dec. 29 White House Press Briefing By Mike McCurry</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(3685 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI> Transcript of Second Dec. 29 White House Press Briefing By Mike&nbsp;McCurry</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1669 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI> Transcript of Presidential Remarks in Photo Opportunity with&nbsp;Congressional Leaders</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(573 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI> Transcript of Remarks by President Clinton in Sunday Photo&nbsp;Opportunity With Congressional Leaders</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(567 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI> Transcript of White House Press Briefing by Mike McCurry</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(4282 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of Presidential Radio Address to the Nation

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following is a transcript
of President Clinton's weekly radio address to the nation:

                          The Oval Office

   10:06 A.M. EST


   THE PRESIDENT: Good morning.  Tomorrow is New Year's Eve, a time
for celebration, friendship and hope.  Nineteen ninety-five has been
a good year for our country, and the coming year can be even better.

   In Washington, we all know this has been a year of serious
differences and profound debate over our nation's future direction.
But if we remain true to our values, we will prove once again that in
America we can have serious differences without leaving deep
divisions.  We know our nation is strongest when we're true to our
fundamental values, giving every American the opportunity to make the
most of their lives, remembering the duty we owe to our parents and
our children, preserving our families and our communities, keeping
America the strongest force of peace and freedom in the world.

   In our effort to advance these values, 1995 has been a time of
real progress and concrete achievement.  The key to our strength is
economic opportunity for every American.  In 1995, the ingenuity and
hard work of our people has kept the economy growing, steady and
strong.  In the past 12 months the economy created 1.75 million new
private sector jobs.  In every month the unemployment rate has been
below six percent.  All told, since 1993, we Americans have created
nearly eight million new jobs.  The stock market has broken every
record.  The deficit dropped for the third year in a row, for the
first time since Mr. Truman was President.  Long-term interest rates
continue to fall, bringing lower mortgage payments for working
families and more affordable credit for small businesses and
consumers.

   A growing economy and lower interest rates are why a million new
Americans became homeowners for the very first time in 1995.  There
were more new businesses incorporated this year than in any previous
year.  And here in Washington, in spite of all of our differences, we
made some real progress on an important issue -- political reform.
At long last, Congress passed a law which applies to themselves the
same laws they oppose in the private sector.  And at long last, after
three years of effort, the Congress passed lobby reform legislation,
banning gifts to congressmen and requiring extensive disclosure about
the activities of lobbyists.

   Most important, our communities all over America are coming
together around our values again.  In city after city, in state after
state, violent crime is down; the welfare and food stamp rolls are
down; the poverty rate is down; even the divorce rate is down.  And
for two years in a row now, the teen pregnancy rate has dropped.

   It hasn't always been an easy year for America.  There have been
moments that tested our national community.  In the wake of the
terrible bombing in Oklahoma City, which took the lives of 169
people, our nation reached out and recognized the bonds that hold us
together.  Out of the ashes of that tragedy a new sense of national
spirit took hold.  We affirmed once again that all Americans are in
it together.  We recognized once again that we can't love our
country and hate our government.

   And a strong America has been the world's strongest force for
freedom, peace and democracy in 1995.  Our brave men and women today
are in the snows of Bosnia, helping to uphold the peace agreement to
end the worst bloodshed in Europe since World War II.  And from the
cobblestone streets of Northern Ireland to the sands of the Middle
East, a strong America has helped to bring peace to regions long torn
by strife.

   Yes, 1995 has been a good year for America.  Our people have
accomplished a lot.  And it goes without saying, we still have one
major task to finish to top off the accomplishment of this year.  We
have to finish the job of balancing the budget and to do it in the
right way.

   As you know, for the last two weeks the Congress has refused to
pass legislation that would keep the federal government open to serve
the American people.  This has never happened before for this length
of time in the whole history of the republic.  And it's been very
hard on three-quarter of a million public servants who have to pay
rent and utilities and mortgage payments and buy food.  And they're
losing pay at holiday time.  And it's also cut off services for
millions of Americans who depend upon them.

   This Tuesday, if the government is not open, clean-up efforts
will be stopped cold at 32 toxic waste sites in neighborhoods around
our country.  Next week, federal funds for unemployment insurance
will begin to run out, forcing states to scramble to find ways to
keep helping workers who have lost their jobs.  And the Meals On
Wheels program to our senior citizens won't go forward.  Every day,
nine of 10 work place safety complaints go unanswered.  And every day
2,500 people can't get guaranteed home mortgages.  Every day,
thousands of young people looking for college loans can't apply for
them.  If ever we needed a reminder that our government is not our
enemy, this is it.

   Let me be clear: I am committed to balancing the budget.  Our
administration already has cut the deficit nearly in half, and I am
determined to finish the job.  For weeks I've been working in good
faith with Republicans and Democrats in Congress to find common
ground, to balance the budget in a way that reflects our values.
Yesterday I met well into the evening with Speaker Gingrich and
Majority Leader Dole.  And in just a few moments I will sit down with
them again, along with the Democratic congressional leaders.

   We are making real progress.  We know that our work is not done.
We know we have much to do, so that the American Dream will remain
alive for every citizen, and so that we can come together as a
people, and so that America can remain the strongest force for peace
the world has ever seen.

   So on this New Year's, let's resolve that we will balance the
budget, but that we'll do it in a way that will keep our country
growing and that will be true to our basic values.  That is, we'll
balance the budget without gutting Medicare and Medicaid, without
deeply cutting education or the environment, without raising taxes on
working families.  Let's resolve to reopen the government and do it
now.  And let's resolve to act without rancor or partisan bitterness
in the spirit of the new year and in the interests of the American
people.

   Nineteen ninety-five has been a year when we've been true to the
best of America.  If we'll just work hard and work together and
follow our values, 1996 can be even better.  Hillary and I want to
wish you and your families a happy and health New Year.  Thank you
for listening.

             END 10:11 A.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of Dec. 29 White House Press Briefing By Mike McCurry

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following is a transcript
of a press briefing held Dec. 29 by White House Press Secretary Mike
McCurry:

                          The Briefing Room


  6:10 P.M. EST


     MR. MCCURRY: Hi.  I wanted to appear briefly with my colleagues
here and give you a very short update based on the guidance that we
just got from the budget principals, who obviously continue their
hard work in the Cabinet Room, sleeves rolled up, sheets of paper
flying back and forth, and coffee being produced in copious
quantities.  I'm doing my color since I don't have much substance to
report.

     Q How many --

     Q Was it being consumed in copious quantities?

     MR. MCCURRY: The President, the Majority Leader, the Speaker,
the minority leaders and the others participating agreed that they
would work about another hour tonight.  They are working through a
series of difficult budget issues, but they clearly are very serious
about addressing those issues that are on the table.  They expect to
work about another hour tonight, take a break.

     The budget advisors group, which consists of Mr. Panetta,
Chairman Domenici, Chairman Kasich, and the two ranking members --
Mr. Sabo and Mr. Exon -- will reconvene on the Hill at approximately
8:00 p.m. or roughly a half hour after they conclude here.  They will
continue to do the type of work that they did today, working through
some of the issues that they're attempting to analyze for the benefit
of the principals.  And then, according to the President and the
others, they expect to reconvene tomorrow as early as possible based
on the advice they get from the budget advisors who will meet later
this evening.  We don't have a time or --

     Q The principals?

     MR. MCCURRY: The principals will meet again tomorrow.  We don't
have a time set, although the preference is to begin as early in the
morning as they can based on however late the advisors group works
tonight.

     That's about all I am afraid I can report at this point.  By
agreement, we're not going to attempt to summarize any of the
substance.  As one participant said, we obviously wouldn't be
continuing to meet if we thought it was going poorly.  But other than
that, I don't want to characterize any --

     Q -- no chance that the House or Senate would take up the
proposals that they mentioned in --

     MR. MCCURRY: I really don't want to speak to that.  I think it
would be more appropriate for you to direct that to either the
Speaker's or the Majority Leader's -- but if you want --

     Q Are there any plans for the --

     MR. MCCURRY: I think you know the President's view.  The
President's view is that it would be good to get the federal
government up and running, federal workers back at their desk.

     Q But what about back pay?

     Q But wait a minute, wait a minute.  Can we get them to answer
the question of whether the House or Senate will take up the issue
tonight of --

     MR. BLANKLEY: It has to be taken up in the Senate first --

     Q Could you go to the mike?

     MR. BLANKLEY: Sure.  I like that.  (Laughter.)

     MR. MCCURRY: Don't get used to it.  (Laughter.)

     MR. BLANKLEY: It would have to be taken up in the Senate first,
and it's not clear whether the Senate Democrats would be supportive.
So we have to be checking on that before we can move it --

     Q Why wouldn't they?

     Q They voted for it last time.

     Q Why wouldn't they?

     Q Is this because of the expedited --

     MR. BLANKLEY: Well, it's not clear.  That may be an issue.  So
we're still checking.

     Q What about the House?

     MR. BLANKLEY: It will have to start in the Senate, so we can't
get out of the Senate.

     Q But as of now, it is still the plan of the leadership to try
to push it through both chambers --

     Q Tonight?

     MR. BLANKLEY: We're trying to, but as I said, it would have to
start with the Senate.  You need unanimous support on both sides of
the aisle there.

     Q The Senate is still --

     Q What is it that you would try --

     Q I don't get this --

     MR. MCCURRY: Would you guys calm down?  One of you at a time
will ask a question.

     Q What are you trying to put through tonight in the Senate?

     MR. BLANKLEY: What the Speaker mentioned earlier at the photo
op, which is to have basically the provision that passed in the
Senate last week, which is attached to the Middle East act, that
would bring -- designate all government employees essential and would
not pay them, but would guarantee their pay once there is a
government up and running again, and would also have an expedited
procedure rule for the Senate so that we could get whatever agreement
we get out of here moved to the Senate with alacrity.  And there's
some speculation that the Senate Democrats may not want to consent to
unanimity on that point.

     Q Do you know what the state of play in the Senate is?

     MR. HINE: The Senate is still in session, prepared to deal with
it, and Senator Dole may have more to say on the floor once we're
done here.

     Q Logistically, Mike, what would you anticipate that will happen
at the end of the principals meeting?  Would you come out and say
something or will they return to the Hill, have --

     Q Yes, what happens in an hour?

     MR. MCCURRY: We did not cover that point.  We will either
provide another brief readout which will not be much different from
this readout, or alternatively, have some type of joint statement as
we did at the conclusion of the meeting last Friday.

     Q You wouldn't expect an appearance by the principals here?

     MR. MCCURRY: I don't expect an appearance by them here, and I'm
not aware of any plans by the Republican leaders or the Democratic
leaders to attempt to do any type of readout tonight on meetings or
make any type of comment.  There obviously -- this is a work in
progress, and the work will continue tomorrow.

     MR. HALLEY: On the continuing resolution -- I work for Senator
Daschle -- when this bill comes up, the Democrats will object because
of the fast track procedures that are being attached to it that would
affect consideration of any budget bill.  But at the same time, we
will offer a clean continuing resolution to fully open the
government, as we've been trying to do for days.  So the one that is
being considered by the Republicans, we will object to that because
of the expedited procedures that have been attached to it.  But we
will offer a clean continuing --

     Q Does that mean you won't give unanimous consent tonight to
that?

     MR. HALLEY: That's correct.

     Q What's wrong with the expedited procedure?

     MR. HALLEY: It violates basically most of the procedures of the
Senate in terms of amendments and debate, et cetera.

     Q But hold on for a second.  Didn't you vote for something just
like this before Christmas --

     MR. HALLEY: No, that was the Middle East part of it.  There's
three parts to this thing that's being put --

     Q No, we're talking about just calling all the workers
essential.  Do you have an objection to that?

     Q That passed last Friday evening.

     MR. HALLEY: No.  There are three pieces to the thing that are
being put together by the Republicans.  One is deeming workers to be
essential, which we agree with that.  Two is the Middle East
initiative, which we agree with that.  What we will be objecting to
is the legislating of expedited procedures to -- that would harm our
ability to both amend and debate the budget bill.  And so we will
object to that vehicle, but then we will offer a clean continuing
resolution to open the government.

     Q Well, when you mean a clean continuing resolution do you mean
to --

     Q -- what the prospects for that?

     Q Michael, what's the White House position on this legislation
with the three parts?  Do you support the Senate Democrats or the
House --

     MR. MCCURRY: The President indicated that, earlier today, he
wants federal workers back at their desks and working.  He wants the
services of the government available to the American people.  And we
understand that there will have to be discussions on Capitol Hill to
make that happen quickly.  We hope that that will happen as quickly
as possible.

     Q In other words, he sides with the Republicans, not the
Democrats on this?

     MR. MCCURRY: No.  In other words, I very artfully ducked the
question.  (Laughter.)

     MR. BLANKLEY: Let me just point out that the provision that
apparently the Senate Democrats are going to block is the same
expedited procedure that you have on a reconciliation bill.  And,
obviously, their concern would be that they wouldn't -- it would get
an agreement here that certain Democratic senators might not be able
to destroy the agreement by a filibuster on the floor after the
members here have worked it out.  So there's -- that's a procedural
question.

     Q Tony, the Speaker is still against a clean CR, is that not
correct?

     MR. MCCURRY: Listen, I want John to do -- and this is -- our
purpose here is -- my colleagues are here to give you an update on
the meeting that's going on here.  I think if they want to talk about
the procedural issues, which are important, and the rights of
individual senators to raise points, which the White House
acknowledges is a very important part of the procedure on Capitol
Hill, they should really brief you up on Capitol Hill about those
procedures.

     Q But he has the right of rebuttal.

     MR. HALLEY: Yes, thank you.  But to restate, the Democrats, as
we've tried to do for weeks, are fully supportive of opening the
government and fully supportive of that -- the piece of this, which
is to deem workers as essential.  And so that's not the issue.

     The reason we'd be objecting to this procedural notion is,
again, because it would deny the ability to amend and debate fully.
And as we did in 1990, there is a way to reestablish a reconciliation
bill.  As you may recall, in 1990 after the agreement was reached, we
did another budget resolution that would then trigger a
reconciliation bill under the full procedures of reconciliation.  And
so that option is open to us.  And we felt that, therefore, we did
not need to run around completely the entire budget process with
something that we'd do this evening.

     MR. MCCURRY: Okay, anything more on the meeting going on now
before we exit?

     Q Yes, Mike.  Does the President intend or feel he will need to
before Senator Daschle and Senator Exon leave the White House
tonight, make the point to them that apparently if everything is so
close to reopening the government, they should set aside -- does he
intend to have a separate thing with them, saying set aside your
objection to this; I really want you to do it?

     MR. MCCURRY: No, he has such good working relations with them
that I don't think he feels that there's a need to cover that point.

     Q There were briefings on the Hill earlier about the areas that
were covered at the budget advisory report, or whatever it's called.
Can you say whether the leaders here essentially worked within that
framework?  Did they go in it or out of it or --

     MR. MCCURRY: Based on what I know -- I don't have a complete
readout of their entire discussions tonight.  They did review some of
those issues that the advisers dealt with today.  They also moved
into what are referred to in their argot now as the tier three
issues, which are more difficult issues that are -- where the
differences are more fundamental between the sides.

     Q Which one?  Medicaid --

     MR. MCCURRY: I'm just not -- we're not authorized to get into
the substance of their dialogue.

     Q Mike, can you explain what the benefit would be of this piece
of legislation that's having its difficulties this evening?  It
sounds as though what you're talking about doing is essentially
bringing 260,000 people back who then will join a bunch of other
people who aren't getting paychecks.  They'll all be getting their
paychecks, there still will be money for their designated agencies to
--

     MR. MCCURRY: We would prefer, obviously, any type of continuing
resolution that would reopen the government.  That's been the
President's view all along.  We believe the government should be
open.  We have believed for a long time there should be a clean CR
that would do so.  But we're dealing, and we have to be realistic
about the environment we're dealing with.  And these gentlemen can
speak better than I can on the attitudes on the Hill.

     On the other hand, the effective legislation that would except
federal employees who are currently furloughed from the furlough
would be to incur a legal obligation to pay them.  That legal
obligation would be very useful to federal workers that need any type
of short-term loan to make mortgage payments or who can produce that
as evidence to a creditor that they got the ability to pay bills that
are due.  I think that would be at least some comfort to federal
workers.  It would be far better for them to get a paycheck, far
better for them to go back to work, far better for them to provide
services to the American people.  That at least it's something, and
something is better than nothing.

     Q So you don't mind if they try to amend -- they block the
ability to amend the --

     MR. MCCURRY: As I just heard, that -- I could tell from their
discussion, that's way over my head.  I think there is some work,
clearly, that Congress will have to do on this.  The President's view
he stated very clearly earlier; he would like to see those federal
workers back to work as quickly as possible.

     Q Any guidance beyond talks tomorrow?

     MR. MCCURRY: No, I don't have anything for the days beyond that
or what time they might finish tomorrow, or would they finish in time
for various people to make travel plans.  I don't have any guidance
on that.

     Q How are you going to let us know, Mike, if they're going to
meet and what time in the morning?  All-call or --

     MR. MCCURRY: We will do an all-call tomorrow and also put in on
the recording as soon as we know what the time is.  But I would check
in here.  I think the President still plans to do the radio address
live tomorrow morning at 10:00 a.m., so you will -- at least at that
point --

     Q Live from the talks?

     Q You wouldn't expect it before the radio address, would you,
Mike?

     MR. MCCURRY: I'm sorry, let me amend that.  Just in case they
want to start earlier, if they end up deciding they want to start
earlier, there's some chance that we might have to pretape the radio
address earlier in the morning.  So check here tomorrow morning.

     Q What is it going to be on?

     Q If Senator Dole give the rebuttal, will he do that live --

     Q Pass the mike around the table.

     Q Is he going to do that from here?

     MR. HINE: I think we're operating under the same conditions that
Mike on that.  It's entirely possible --

     Q Mike, just to clarify -- you're not suggesting that this
measure that's being conducted this evening would restore the
government to full functioning.

     MR. MCCURRY: No, it would -- our understanding is it would allow
federal workers to return to their work, it would allow them to do
certain accepted activity that would be authorized by their
individual agencies.  That would be some progress.  It would allow in
some cases, my understanding is, for applications to be processed.
For example, one example is it's conceivable to me under this
legislation, unless my colleagues disagree, that they might be able
to begin issuing passports again for people who wish to travel, just
as one example.

     Now, that's an activity that doesn't incur any additional
obligation to spend money on the part of the government, but it
allows some measure of government services to be restored to the
American people.  And that would be better than nothing, as I said
earlier.

     Q Can you open the national parks under this?

     MR. MCCURRY: I don't know the answer to that.  I don't know the
answer.

     Q Sometime this evening could you get us a reaction to -- the
President's reaction to the Senate Democrats stopping that process
that you just outlined?

     MR. MCCURRY: I think I commented on that already.  They didn't
say they were stopping it --

     MR. HALLEY: We're not.  We're --

     MR. MCCURRY: They've got a plan to reopen the government by a
clean continuing resolution, which is something, as you know, the
President is strongly supportive of.

     Q What's the chance of getting a clean CR?

     Q Do you have any idea what the mood is in the room?

     MR. MCCURRY: Unless my colleagues would dispute this
characterization, they clearly are very serious in purpose.  As I
said, many of them have their coats off, they've got their sleeves
rolled up, they've got pens out and --

     Q Why didn't they do that before?

     MR. MCCURRY: -- they're working very seriously on the relevant
issues.

     Q Is the Senate essentially in town?

     MR. HINE: Yes, we're in session.  We're in recess subject to the
call of the chair.

     Q So if there had to be a roll call -- you don't expect a
roll-call vote tomorrow, for example?  If the majority found it
necessary to have a roll-call vote to tamp down the Democrats
thinking --

     MR. HINE: I'm not certain that that's how events are going to
unfold.

     Q Mike, why couldn't all of this have been done Tuesday or
Wednesday?

     MR. MCCURRY: Tuesday or Wednesday -- you mean earlier in this
week?  The process that was defined by the principals last Friday, a
week ago today, called for the staff-level discussions and analysis
to begin on Tuesday and Wednesday, which occurred.  It clearly was
very useful for that to happen because it's been the premise for a
lot of the work that occurred today, and that the principals are
doing now.

     There was an alternative procedure that had been discussed a
while back.  That was not available to the President or the
principals for reasons everyone in this room knows.  This is the
process that was available.  This is the process that at the moment
appears to be working.

     Q A question for John, just to clear up the Senate action.  Does
the Senate action -- say, it happened tonight or tomorrow -- does
that have to be by unanimous consent, or can there be a vote on it,
which presumably could override the Democrats' objection?  And then
could the Democrats, say, filibuster to prevent a vote?

     MR. HALLEY: No -- I mean, our intent is to -- I mean, you would
need consent at this time of day.  Again, our intent -- we've tried
I'd say 10 times in the last two weeks to pass a continuing
resolution that would open the government, and that's our position.

     Q A continuing resolution, not just this deeming measure?

     MR. HALLEY: Right.

     Q You're talking about a real, live CR?

     MR. HALLEY: Right, a complete opening.  A real, live
put-people-back-to-work and pay them, and open the agencies.

     MR. MCCURRY: This meeting will be over before the briefing ends
if we don't move on.

     Q John, can you spell your last name?

     MR. HALLEY: H-a-l-l-e-y.

     Q Any idea when you might be able to give us some guidance about
Hilton Head?

     MR. MCCURRY: It won't be tonight, and it will be late in the day
tomorrow.  I just don't have any way to give you any guidance.

     Q Can you say how early could these talks -- 7:00 a.m.-8:00 a.m.
tomorrow morning?

     MR. MCCURRY: I believe that will depend entirely on how late Mr.
Panetta, the chairman and the congressional group works this evening.
I think their intent is to work rather late and that might make the
start not at the crack of dawn, but somewhat around mid-morning
tomorrow.

     Q At 8:00 a.m., 9:00 a.m.?

     MR. MCCURRY: And then I would suspect that the President and the
other principals would commence shortly after that.  So I don't -- my
guess is around mid-morning, but we'll wait and see and give you
guidance as we've got it.

     Q Tomorrow the principals meeting would be back here, not at the
Capitol?

     MR. MCCURRY: It sounded to me like the intent is to meet here.

     THE PRESS: Thank you.

             END 6:40 P.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of Second Dec. 29 White House Press Briefing By Mike
McCurry

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following is a transcript
of a second press briefing held Dec. 29 by White House Press
Secretary Mike McCurry:


                          The Briefing Room


  7:25 P.M. EST

     MR. MCCURRY: Second verse, same as the first.  Bye.  (Laughter.)

     Q Do you know now how the President feels about the Democratic
move in the Senate?

     MR. MCCURRY: The President believes that we'll able to work --
given the cooperation shown today, we can work something out that
will allow federal workers to resume their diligent service to the
American people.

     Q Tonight?

     Q What's that mean?

     MR. MCCURRY: It will be up to senators and leaders on the Hill
to resolve those issues, but we hope they will.

     Q Well, does he agree that the Democrats have a point?

     MR. MCCURRY: He understands the concerns the senators have to
make sure they've got the right protected to debate very important
budget matters and the very few hours of hearings and debate devoted
to aspects of the Republican budget.  And he well understands why
people are protecting the right to have further debate.  At the same
time, he will encourage all members of Congress from both parties to
act quickly to allow federal workers to return to their posts.

     Q Mike, when you say work something out, does the President --
is the President given to understand that there will be something
done today or tomorrow to work something out to return furloughed
federal employees back to the job -- to their jobs?

     MR. MCCURRY: The sense the President got is that congressional
leaders on both sides of the aisle are working urgently to solve the
matter.

     Q -- conciliatory to me.

     MR. MCCURRY: -- let me tell you what I know about tonight.
They're taking a break.  Mr. Panetta and his group from the White
House will return to Capitol Hill, begin meeting with the so-called
budget advisers group, approximately 8:00 p.m.  It's my understanding
they do not plan any further readouts this evening.  They are
continuing to work through issues that they then prepare for
discussion by the budget advisers.  I anticipate that staffs are
going to be working throughout the evening and into the morning to
prepare discussion documents that will be used by the principals
tomorrow.  They've agreed to reconvene here at the White House at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow.  That's the principals group.

     Q How does that affect the radio address?  Still be done live?

     MR. MCCURRY: The radio address is going to be done taped just to
protect -- make sure we don't have any -- because the President may
be involved in pre-briefs prior to the meeting.

     Q What's the subject?

     MR. MCCURRY: It will be about the budget.

     Q When will that be available, Mike?

     MR. MCCURRY: He's taping it tomorrow morning, and we expect it
will be available just shortly before air time.

     Q Mike, the Republicans all left tonight without comment.  Did
the meeting end in an atmosphere of --

     MR. MCCURRY: It ended very amicably.  And the President, the
Speaker, the Majority Leader and the Democratic leaders agreed that
the readout that you heard earlier this evening would suffice for the
work that they did between roughly 6:00 p.m.  and 7:20 p.m.

     Q -- resolution tomorrow, Mike?  What does it look like?

     MR. MCCURRY: Say again.

     Q For the prospects of a resolution tomorrow.

     MR. MCCURRY: A resolution -- you mean a resolution of issues or
--

     Q Yes.

     MR. MCCURRY: They will make progress tomorrow, but I don't --
the work they're doing, it would be very hard at this point to
predict that they would arrive at any final agreements tomorrow.
They've got a lot of work to do tomorrow.

     Q Do you this going, then, into Sunday?

     MR. MCCURRY: Conceivably, yes.  But that's not been decided yet.

     Q Do you have a reaction from the President to the Daschle
blocking this plan that --

     MR. MCCURRY: Yes, we talked about that earlier.

     Q Is there a meeting with Panetta and the budget advisers
tomorrow morning before the principals meeting?  There was some talk
about a 9:00 a.m. meeting on the Hill before the principals came down
here.  Was there any talk about that?

     MR. MCCURRY: They may -- the budget advisers group may reconvene
tomorrow morning, but they -- that would be prior to the 10:30 a.m.
meeting --

     Q Why did the President cut off a reporter from asking Gingrich
whether he had caved?

     MR. MCCURRY: The President -- (inaudible) -- felt that there had
been any indication by the Speaker that he had, quote, unquote, caved
-- (inaudible) -- the President also thought he might give a better
answer than the Speaker might.  (Laughter.)

     Q What?

     Q He wants peace to reign.

     Q -- single issue was set aside as agreed upon or anything
narrowed substantially --

     MR. MCCURRY: The procedure they've been using for these
discussions is that any element discussed and any element that they
reach consensus upon would not change the admonition that nothing is
finally agreed until everything is agreed.

     Q Your sense, Mike, about any travel plans the President may
have that could be tomorrow or more likely Sunday now?

     MR. MCCURRY: I have no sense, but the President seemed to be
enjoying himself here as much as he would in South Carolina.
(Laughter.)

     Q You have no sense of that?

     Q -- answer to that question that nothing is agreed until
everything is agreed -- what you're saying is, whatever differences
they narrow today have no permanent status because everything has to
be agreed to or--

     MR. MCCURRY: As a common negotiating device, they usually --
even as they work through complicated issues, that they reserve the
right at the end of the discussion to go back and look at the entire
package.  And they have done so here, and I suspect they will
continue to do so -- that they will go back and look at the final
package that they get, if they in fact get one, before they agree
that they've got a final agreement.

     Q But you -- as you agree, you guys are just checking it off and
moving on to the next one, and then --

     MR. MCCURRY: Yes, but what they're doing -- they're doing -- I
mean, without getting into the substance, because I'm not authorized
to get into the substance, they are working through a set of issues
that have been identified.  The budget advisers today met, dealt with
a series of budget issues, not all of them, but many of them.  They
were analyzed in some detail, discussions papers were prepared.  They
were reviewed today.  The budget advisers will now go back up to the
Hill, continue to address elements of the budget discussion.  They
will be analyzed, discussion drafts will be prepared, and they'll
work again on it tomorrow.  They're taking these issues serially as
they work through a series of contentious issues that range from the
-- starting with the less controversial and moving to the more
controversial.  And they clearly now are moving into areas that are
more controversial.

     Q On the Hill tonight do you think there will be action to get
the workers back to work?

     MR. MCCURRY: I cannot predict that.  You've heard the discussion
of the representatives and the congressional leadership earlier, and
it will be up to them to --

     Q Mike, are there going to be simultaneous meetings with the
budget leaders up on the Hill, meeting at the same time that the
meetings down here are taking place, or do they complete --

     Q I think Tony Blankley said --

     Q He did indicate -- Tony indicated that they'd be up on the
Hill, you know, working on churning stuff out even for future issues
-- even as --

     MR. MCCURRY: Oh, yes, they have -- well, we have -- there have
been staff -- staff work has continued even while the principals are
meeting, yes.  In fact, there's some -- staff has been available in
the Roosevelt Room in case there is a need for expert advice on
budget related issues, and they continue.

     Q With Cabinet-level people?  Will they be meeting also at the
same --

     MR. MCCURRY: I wouldn't rule it out, but mostly the people who
are there are more staff level experts.

     Q -- radio address subject?

     MR. MCCURRY: It will be the budget situation generally.  It will
also be, because it's the last radio address of the year, it will be
a review of 1995.

     Q Mike, unrelated, is the policy out here changed at all, or was
that just a mis --

     MR. MCCURRY: That was a regrettable misunderstanding, and I
believe we have got meetings going on right now to straighten out --

     Q That's not the first time it's happened today.  It's happened
several times.

     MR. MCCURRY: I understand, and there's --

     Q Some people decided not to provoke a fight and --

     MR. MCCURRY: Right.  They're working to clarify what the ground
rules are on -- (inaudible) -- because they obviously --

     Q Is the President going out tonight?

     MR. MCCURRY: Say again.

     Q Is the President going out tonight?

     MR. MCCURRY: Not that I'm aware of.  Is he?  He is?  Pool alert
-- that he may go out for dinner apparently.

     Q Where?

     MR. MCCURRY: Okay, see you all tomorrow.

     THE PRESS: Thank you.

             END 7:35 P.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of Presidential Remarks in Photo Opportunity with
Congressional Leaders

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 30 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following is a transcript
of remarks made by President Clinton today during a photo opportunity
with Congressional Leaders:


                         The Cabinet Room


  11:35 A.M. EST


     THE PRESIDENT: I want to be brief today because we're getting
off to a little late start.  We've got a lot to do.  I have three
things to say.  I think we made a good start yesterday, we're making
progress, and I believe we need to open the government.  I hope we
can agree to do all that.

     Q Sir, do you know any more information on the soldier who was
wounded in Bosnia?

     THE PRESIDENT: Our reports are sketchy and I have tried to get
an update, but what I do know is that there were apparently two
vehicles and four soldiers involved.  Only one was seriously hurt and
he has been medivacked to Croatia in a hospital there, and we
understand he's in stable condition.

     But mines have always been our biggest concern and we're working
very hard on it, but that's what happened.  And we'll continue to
monitor it and do the best we can.  The mission itself is going very
well.  The people have received our soldiers very well and I'm very
well satisfied with the progress.  And I'm obviously very sorry this
happened, but they're making good progress on the mine problem, but
it's going to be difficult to get rid of them all.

     Q -- the measure to get the workers back that's going to get
through Congress?

     SENATOR DOLE: Well, it passed the House.  We hope we can pass in
the Senate today, so make some progress.

     SENATOR DASCHLE: We tried to pass a clean CR, one without any
conditions.  And that was objected to, but I hope we can work
something out.

     Q But isn't the fact now that the Democrats are holding things
up?

     SENATOR DASCHLE: Not at all.  As a matter of fact, as I said, we
passed a continuing resolution -- we had no conditions.  It sent
people back to work, and that was objected to.  So we're not trying
to hold anything up here.  We hope we can get some sort of an
agreement as early as today.

     Q Well, what's it going to take to get a deal?

     SPEAKER GINGRICH: Well, let me just something.  I think the
President had a right -- we're glad to have you all in.  We have a
lot of work to do.  We made, I thought, real progress last night.  It
is not easy.  We have very significant areas we have to work on, but
I thought the spirit was very positive.  We don't just want to get
the federal workers back, we want to get them paid.  And in order to
do that, I think we've got to get this whole thing worked out.
But I thought we had a great start last night.  And with you all's
permission, I think we can get a lot more done in the next few hours.

     Q Mr. President, is the message from the Democrats basically
that they don't trust you?

     THE PRESIDENT: We've got to go to work.  Thank you very much.

     THE PRESS: Thank you.

             END 11:37 A.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of Remarks by President Clinton in Sunday Photo
Opportunity With Congressional Leaders

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 /U.S. Newswire/ -- Following is a transcript
of remarks by the president in a photo opportunity with congressional
leaders:

                         The Cabinet Room
9:50 A.M. EST

     Q  Mr. President, are you close to a deal today?

     THE PRESIDENT:  Let me tell you where we are today.  We had
a very long discussion yesterday.  We discussed almost all the issues
where we had differences on our plans financially, in terms
the dollars.  And this morning we're going to have an extensive
discussion of the Medicare policy.  And then we're going to give our
staffs some instruction.  We're going to meet again on Tuesday and
we're going to do our best to work through this and come to an
accord.

     My New Year's wish is that we'll get this balanced
budget plan and we'll do it in a way that protects the things that we
care about -- the Medicare, the Medicaid, the education and
environment, the other issues, and we've been working at it.  I've
been very well pleased and I think we've been somewhat successful
because we haven't said very much about it.  We've just got to keep
working until we reach an accord.

     Q  Mr. President, will you touch on -- negotiations --

     Q  Will you leave town today without reopening the
government, of the three --

     SPEAKER GINGRICH:  I'm sure we'll be talking about that, that's
one of the things we want to get done and get agreed to.  So we're
trying to work out how to get the federal employees back to work
-- we'd also like to get them paid, I think that's an integral
part of getting them back to work.  But as the President said, I
think, frankly, most of our success so far has been that we've been
in this room talking with each other and not getting involved in
negotiating in public, and I think we've made a lot of progress.

     Q  To follow on that, sir, is it healthy to have the
House speakers talking on CNN yesterday on the --

     SPEAKER GINGRICH:  Oh, that is nonsense.  I told the
President on Friday that I was so favorable about him in answering
their big question on Evans & Novak that I thought he'd want to see
it.  The fact is we're working very well together.  I was asked a
question about the campaign next year, and I suspect if you ask Mr.
Gephardt or Vice President Gore about how they'll campaign next year,
they'll give you similar answers.  We're negotiating very well from a
government standpoint in here and I think we have a lot to be proud
of.  Our New Year's wish ought to be that we get this done and give
the American people a balanced budget and the government paid for and
back to work.

     SENATOR DOLE:  The Senate is going to meet at noon,
we'll try to pass something to help the federal employees.

     Q  Are you closer?

     SENATOR DOLE:  Oh, we're about six feet apart.
(Laughter.)

     SENATOR DASCHLE:  We'll be a lot closer in a couple of
hours.  (Laughter.)

     THE PRESIDENT:  We're working at it steady.  Happy New
Year everybody.

     THE PRESS:  Happy New Year.


             END                          9:54 A.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A><IMG SRC="/pubgifs/gt42.gif"><BR><BR>
Copyright
U.S. NEWSWIRE via NewsNet
January 01, 1996

 Transcript of White House Press Briefing by Mike McCurry

 To: National Desk
 Contact: White House Press Office, 202-456-2100

   WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 /U.S. Newswire/ --  Following is a transcript
of a press briefing by Mike McCurry:

                          The Briefing Room
12:40 P.M. EST

     MR. MCCURRY:  Let me just tell you what's going on right
now.  The President of the United States is thanking individually the
various members of the budget staffs that have been supporting the
administration team during these discussions, folks from Health and
Human Services, Treasury, OMB, the National Economic Council, Mr.
Panetta's staff, those that have done extraordinary work over the
last week and, as you'll be able to tell in a moment, have got an
extraordinary amount of work today and tomorrow.

     The budget discussions today led to an agreement by the
principals to instruct staff to really summarize the discussions
they've been able to have over the last several days, which resulted
in exploring the differences that exist in a range of areas from
income support programs to welfare, to tax issues, to health care
finance issues -- to really summarize those discussions and draw
together the places where there appeared to be some agreement between
the Republican side, the administration and the congressional
Democrats; and then, also set forth in more precise detail the areas
that there clearly are still differences.

     That will lead to a meeting that will happen here at the
White House Tuesday evening, either late afternoon or early evening
-- I suspect more early evening -- between the budget principals.
They will reconvene, review the discussion document that is prepared
by staff over the next day and a half, and they will begin, I think
they all believe, the more serious discussions of tradeoffs that
exist on the large issues that will be fundamental to a final
agreement.  But they all clearly remain committed to this process and
the process is working.  They are making progress because they are
defining the areas of agreement and disagreement more clearly.  And
the President's satisfied that they're making progress.

     The President also strongly encouraged the congressional
leaders to find a way to pass some measure that would restore federal
workers to their rightful places of employment.  He also wants them
to be paid, but he understands that those are -- there are different
points of view on that issue.  He hopes they can resolve some of
these issues.

     Q  What's his point of view on that?

     MR. MCCURRY:  He believes they should be working, they
should be paid, and the government should be fully open, as he said
over and over and over again.

     Q  Any suggestion, any hint that they were close to
working some deal today?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They worked on it a lot.  There was
considerable side-bar discussion during this meeting between House
and Senate staffers, and Senate staffers between the Republican and
Democratic side, and that will lead to whatever action occurs on the
Hill shortly.

     Q  Did Dole and Daschle say they would --

     MR. MCCURRY:  I'm not going to comment on the business
that they need to do themselves on the Hill.

     Q  Mike, Tony Blankley said that there was one area
that was not covered in the walk-through.  What is that area?  He
said it was one major area.

     MR. MCCURRY:  I suspect -- can you run and check on
this?  I suspect the answer to that is Medicaid.  But Barry will run
that down.

     Q  They didn't act on that at all?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They spent a lot of time discussing
Medicare.  The almost entire discussion today was devoted to Medicare
and different options.  And what the President and congressional
leaders asked for is something that really defines more clearly what
the policy choices are in Medicare given the respective positions of
the various budget proposals that are out there.

     Q  Mike, in the event that there is some kind of deal
in the Senate, will there be any briefing here on what -- the
technicalities of what that means for the government?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, if there's a final agreement in
Congress that would restore federal workers to their jobs, OMB staff
will be available to talk about how that will affect any restart
activities that they have.  But we'll direct that to OMB because
they'll be in the best place to analyze that.

     Q  Mike, can you confirm that as of yesterday they had
an agreement in principle to at least a packet of savings of $100
billion in social spending?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, that would be -- that requires some
rough eyeballing that I don't think you can really do under the
circumstances.  There are different ways that you can look at the
categories of things they've done here.  There are some areas where
there are clear agreements and they should be able to rather quickly
write the legislative language that would lock in some of the things
they've agreed to.

     There are other areas where it's a little fuzzier, where
there are some different options that exist and you could get a range
of savings depending on how you calculate it.  But my guess is -- I
saw that comment in one of the stories today; I think that was
probably a rough eyeball guess that someone made that would try to
put a numeric value on some of the work they've done.  Frankly, I'd
caution people here against using that kind of calculation because
the ranges are so large when you look at the big ticket issues.
There could be considerably more in savings, depending on how you
judge the progress they made on some of these discussions.

     Q  What are the differences on Medicaid without going
into detail?  Are they financial or are they philosophical?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Both.

     MR. TOIV:  Medicaid is the issue, but it was discussed
in the context of block grants, the whole block grant issue, but not
separately as a --

     MR. MCCURRY:  The fundamental dispute there is the
guarantee of health care coverage and the federal entitlement and
what happens if you block-grant it.  Now, that's a large issue and
one of the issues covered particularly as they dealt with domestic
discretionary spending, which they did both yesterday afternoon and
yesterday evening.

     So I think that they've touched on that aspect of
Medicaid, but they haven't gone through all the -- they haven't gone
through it in the same detail and precision on that issue as they
have some of the other areas that they've looked at.  Now, that will
be covered by some of the staff work.  They are going to take some
look at issues related to that as they work over the next day and a
half.  They'll be preparing some side-by-side analyses of how the
different issues play out.

     Q  Are they working from the same base numbers?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They're working from the same calculation
of what the budget impact is based on CBO numbers, yes.

     Q  What's the point of all these hours of walking
through this?  It seems to me we all know what the big differences
are.

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, that's not necessarily true.  I
mean, everyone knows what the big differences are and what the big
numbers look like on a single sheet of paper.  But remember, every
one of those large numbers is premised on fundamental policy
decisions that have a great deal of nuance and complexity associated
with them.  And I think it's encouraging and the principals are
encouraged at how detailed these discussions have been.  They have
looked item by item at these policy implications of the large
numbers.

     I think many Americans think, well, gee, you get
together in the room and you split the difference in a simple
arithmetic.  That's not policymaking.  Policymaking requires
attention to the detail that underscores each of those numbers.  And
that's the work they've been doing.

     Now, based on the very intense discussions they've had,
the staff can now summarize in a much more detailed fashion what the
specifics of a legislative approach to a final budget agreement would
look like.  That's encouraging because it means if they do reach an
agreement on a final budget package, the work of assembling that and
putting it in legislative language would be considerably easier based
on the discussions they've had here.  In a sense, one participant
compared this to something like a conference committee on the Hill;
they're doing much the same thing they would do in a House-Senate
conference committee, looking at big issues, discussing the policy
differences, and then making it possible for staff to write what
amounts to a conference report.

     Q  Are they getting a sense of how far away they are
from reaching some kind of final agreement?  Are they getting a sense
of the kind of time frame they're looking at?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They could be so near or so far away
because it will depend in part on what types of tradeoffs they make
on the large issues.  They have not attempted to take the big issues,
as Hillary just said that everyone knows are out there, and reconcile
them.  They've approached this from saying, let's narrow as closely
as we can the differences that exist and define better what types of
tradeoffs will exist once you've reached those big decisions.  But I
suspect that by Tuesday night when they meet again, they're going to
start moving to those more fundamental issues that will have to be
embraced if there's going to be a final agreement, which is why right
now it's impossible to say one way or another whether they will
actually reach an agreement.

     Q  -- an agreement in the order in which they'll take
up the big issues?  Because, as you've said in the past, you would
prefer that the spending and the final decisions on spending
determine the size of a tax cut.

     MR. MCCURRY:  I don't believe -- they have given a list
of specifics to the staff to address, but I can't say for certain
that the principals will work through those issues in the same order
-- that they go from income maintenance through health care finance
issues to discretionary spending issues to revenue issues.  But I
don't guarantee that that's the order in which they will be addressed
on Tuesday night.

     Q  Would you say that they have finished stage one,
the walk-through process, then and are getting -- are heading into
stage two, the decision-making process?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They finished the walk-through process
during the course of the day yesterday, with the exception of the
more detailed discussion of Medicare that they wished to have today.
They are now preparing for what amounts to the tradeoffs that will
have to occur.

     Q  Is the President ready to compromise and trade off?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, the President is ready to continue
to discuss these issues in good faith.

     Q  In what context have they discussed Social
Security?

     MR. MCCURRY:  It has been related to many of their
discussions of health care finance, Medicare in particular, and
related in some respects to their AFDC discussions since they're all
covered by the various titles of the Social Security Act.

     Q  Did they talk about it in terms of --

     MR. MCCURRY:  They've had -- I believe they had a very
brief discussion of the CPI issue, and there was not instant
resolution of that.

     Q  You said that there's a day-and-a-half discussion
beginning on Tuesday evening that concerns --

     MR. MCCURRY:  I'm sorry, it was a day and a half for
work now.  The staff is going to be working -- one of the reasons the
President wanted to spend some time with our courageous and noble
staffers is they are now going to work for the rest of the day today
and they're apparently going to start about 9:00 a.m. tomorrow and
they'll be able to work all day long tomorrow.  That's not going to
be any -- we're not going to arrange any press coverage of that,
that's just the work they're going to be doing, both informal and
probably getting together at various points.

     Q  Going back to -- how would you characterize the
agreement so far money-wise?  You won't say $100 billion.  How would
you characterize it -- issue-wise, money-wise?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, they've made good progress.  It's a
large sum of money, but it's not satisfactory -- wouldn't be
sufficient to reach the balanced budget goals.  That would require
some additional decision-making that obviously wouldn't happen before
Tuesday night.

     Q  Can you offer any color or anecdotal details of
today's meeting?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, they continued -- we do the best on
food more than anything else.  (Laughter.)  They had the traditional
congressional meeting donuts back today, for some reason.  We were on
a health food kick yesterday, but today -- normally, when the
bipartisan congressional leadership meet with the President they have
wonderful donuts available.  And they reappeared and quickly
disappeared during the meeting today.

     There was a lot of kibitzing.  As the result of being
together over the couple of days, there were moments where the
partisan sides are able to tease each other or get little quips in on
each other from time to time, and there was a fair amount of that
going on.  I don't have a specific example of that that I can think
of off my head, but there's some of what I would describe as general
ribbing back and forth.

     The Speaker was concerned that we all make sure that
--he was concerned about a question he got in the pool session this
morning and he was nervous that we not over-interpret those -- the
appearance on the Evans and Novak Show.  Some of us watched that and
some of us managed to stay awake through it.  (Laughter.)

     Q  As he shouted Ron down -- did they discuss that?
As he shouted Ron down, did he and the President then discuss that?

     MR. MCCURRY:  No, they didn't.  They didn't, although
the Speaker reached that with some of us and we didn't take any
offense at his remarks.

     Q  You didn't take any offense at the remarks at all?

     MR. MCCURRY:  No.  Compared to other things that he
says, they -- (laughter.)

     Q  Dole and Gingrich have said before that they see
Wednesday as sort of a deadline; they're going to be adjourning
Congress and reopening Congress.  Is there any sense that you'll know
by Wednesday that you're going to have a deal or you're not going to
have a deal?

     MR. MCCURRY:  You mean on this question of federal
workers and --

     Q  No, no, no.  No, over the budget deal, the budget
negotiations.

     Q  The CR would expire -- I mean, they're saying that
you're supposed to have it finished in the first session, which
is --

     MR. MCCURRY:  In the statutory and in the first session
is on Wednesday, and clearly one reason they're meeting Tuesday night
is with that deadline in mind.  But I wouldn't predict at this point
it would be possible to get an outline of agreement by Wednesday.
Certainly everyone hopes to get an agreement on a balanced budget as
quickly as possible.

     Q  I watched the back-and-forth there.  The money that
we're not supposed to put a numerical figure on that's not
necessarily $100 billion, but is something -- what does that concern?

     MR. MCCURRY:  I made that so absolutely, magnificently
impenetrable, there would be no way you could answer that.
(Laughter.)  Look, the reason is as you look through these issues it
could be -- they've got -- $100 billion is a rough estimate of some
of the work that were in the so-called tier two issues that were
being handled at the budget advisors level.  That's where it has come
from.

     Now, if you look at some of the other issue areas -- the
so-called tier three issues -- where they've identified some
agreement in policy approaches, they've got considerably more than
that, I would guess.  But I can't put a dollar figure on that, nor
should I, because it's subject to further discussion.  And in any
event, as we've said all along again, they have to get agreement on a
whole package before it all matters.

     Q  Tier two is what?  Tier two is nonentitlement,
discretionary --

     MR. MCCURRY:  Tier one -- they've defined issues as they
worked at both the staff and budget advisor issues as tier one, tier
two, tier three issues, as they rank order some of the policy
questions.  And just, for example, in the area of revenues I think
there were, what, Barry -- 70 separate issues that they needed to
examine.

     Now, they range from -- tier one would be something
which there is a common approach both in the balanced budget act, in
the President's approach on policy terms that's reflected in some of
the other discussion documents they've looked at, whether it's
Breaux-Chafee, whether it's Daschle, whether it's the coalition
budget, that there's some commonality approach and they think they
can lock in language that would satisfy everybody.  So, in other
words, a done deal; it looks like that will be easy to do.

     Tier two are areas where there are differences, but
they're fairly close.  They can be significant policy issues, but
there are ways in which you could bridge the gaps.  And they
concentrated a lot of work on the tier two issues.  And I think
that's where they found agreement that would take you beyond this
mythical $100 billion that was reported somewhere today.

     And then tier three issues are the more fundamental
differences that really are central to getting final agreement.  And
as I say, those are ones in which they agree to sharpen up the
discussion by really looking for how you define and analyze the
tradeoffs that would have to happen in order to reconcile those two
or three issues.  But that's work that will have to go on on Tuesday.

     Q  Does it have to be balanced down to a penny?  I
mean, it has to be actually -- the numbers have to be coinciding
totally?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, they -- it's more -- the more
important issue and then more of these discussions have been around
the policy has to be agreed to, how do you -- what's the policy going
to be.

     Q  Are tax cuts on the table?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Tax relief for working families has always
been on the table.

     Q  I didn't ask that.  I asked would tax cuts --

     Q  When this is all finished, for each of the major
topics they talked about will there be a figure for each of seven
fiscal years that will be the limit leading to a zero deficit?


     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, when it's all said and done and they
have a final agreement they will have a document that then can be
scored by CBO that could produce that type of analysis, sure.

     Q  Going back to -- can you characterize at all this
-- without the figure, what kind of subject areas there are
agreement?  How will you characterize the areas they have agreement
on?  You don't want to do it money-wise.  Subject-wise, anything
besides --

     MR. MCCURRY:  No, that's a -- I mean, substantively
we're not -- that just is more fuel for a lot of incorrect
speculation.  And as the Speaker made the point today, that it has
helped them that they've not tried to score points in the public
discussion of these deliberations.

     Q  I just want to clarify -- if, for purpose of
discussion the President is talking about CBO assumptions in all of
these discussions, is he then acquiescing to CBO's growth
predictions, its interest rate predictions?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Not necessarily.  I mean, that might be
that the issue of how you define assumption, will look at assumptions
-- and more importantly, how you decided when certain budget features
would trigger on or trigger off.

     Q  I'm sorry, could you run that past me one more
time?  You're saying he is not in agreement with the CBO --

     MR. MCCURRY:  I said that -- the question is about
assumptions, has he agreed to lock in the CBO assumptions.  I think
that's still an area that the principals could explore as they look
at issues like when certain budget features trigger on, trigger off,
how you measure that and how you look at impact.  For purposes of
these discussions they have agreed to a CBO evaluation on what the
budget options are.  I'm not going to get any more specific than what
I just said, although I just gave you a very good hint.

     Q  In talking about Medicare today and trying to talk
about their differences of viewpoint on medical inflation, what are
they -- whose numbers are they utilizing?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, for an informed discussion they use
-- they were relying on budget experts at CBO, at HHS, they were
looking at different types of analysis.

     QQ  Oh, this is the last tier thing where if you save
money on discretionary in the last years then you have to trigger
off, based on if you beat the CBO assumptions?

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, trigger-on, trigger-off is an aspect
of various budget proposals that are out there.  There are some in
the coalitions, there is one in the President's most recent offer.

     Q  What's he going to do at Hilton Head?

     MR. MCCURRY:  In Hilton Head he's looking forward to
seeing his friends, first and foremost; spending time with his
family; having dinner with his friends tonight and spending some time
outdoors tomorrow.  It's been raining --

     Q  What time do you expect --

     Q  Mike, will he say anything on going out to the
helicopter?


     MR. MCCURRY:  No, I think he wants to just get down
there and see his friends and have New Year's Eve with people he's
spent New Year's Eve with for the last 12 years.

     All right, happy New Year, everybody.  Have a safe and
prosperous 1996.

     Q  Did they all wish each other a happy New Year?

     MR. MCCURRY:  They did.  Actually, they said goodbye to
each other, happy New Year to each other.  There was a little bit of
discussion about travel plans for everybody.  I think, as you know,
Senator Dole after the senate session is going up to New Hampshire.


     Q  Did the President wish him well?

     MR. MCCURRY:  There was some good natured discussion.
He's going for the first eve festivities, or something like that.  I
would say that there continues to be a good atmosphere in these
discussions, but everybody is realistic enough to know that there are
sharp differences that still exist and that there's a lot of hard
work ahead.

     Q  Any idea when they're going to actually be done
with any sort of an agreement on the seven-year plan -- to they have
a time -- can't do it by Wednesday?

     MR. MCCURRY:  No, I think -- I think that everyone
understands -- the President is very cognizant of the Speaker's
concern about doing this within the statutory calendar of the first
session.  In fact, the President, at several points when it was
suggested there's going to be a lot of work that would have to be
done to get this discussion document together, that it might not be
done by Tuesday, the President admonished everybody again and said it
was very hard to ask people to work on the holiday.  But that because
of the Speaker's concern about January 3rd and that date, that it was
important to have a meeting during the day on Tuesday, even if it had
to be late in the day.  So we understand the importance of that and
that's why everyone is committed to trying to work this through as
quickly as they can.

     Q  Do you think there will be meetings between the
principals Wednesday, Thursday -- every day until there's --

     MR. MCCURRY:  I can't predict.  I'm taking it a day at a
day.  I'll tell you what I know, they plan to meet Tuesday night and
we'll see where we go from there.

     Q  So they have until midnight Wednesday night,
Thursday morning -- or is that --

     MR. MCCURRY:  Well, that's not -- I want to make it
clear that's not a -- that's a date that's important to the Speaker,
for reasons that the Speaker can tell you because it relates to the
statutory deadline of the first session, and it also relates to the
continuing resolution issue.  But I think we need -- you know, from
our point of view we just need to continue to work to try to resolve
the issues and do it as expeditiously as possible.

     Q  Is it midnight Tuesday or midnight Wednesday --

     MR. MCCURRY:  You should ask the House Speaker.  It's
their deadline, not ours.

     Thank you.

             END                          1:00 P.M. EST

 -0-
 /U.S. Newswire  202-347-2770/




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-2</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-18</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/gt06.html 205.156.212.5 19970115021743 text/html 60904
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:15:49 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:49:51 GMT
Content-length: 60715
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/gt06.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet <BR>
MARCH 1995<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OVERVIEW</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (OAU)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(510 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>CONTACT -- ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (OAU)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(16 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>LEADERSHIP PROFILES:</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>WHO IS WHO IN BULGARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(336 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>BIOGRAPHY - ZHAN VIDENOV - BULGARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(73 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>BIOGRAPHY - GEORGI PIRINSKI - BULGARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(65 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>BIOGRAPHY - VICE ADM. (RET.) DIMITER PAVLOV - BULGARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(92 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>ELECTION, GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY TURNOVER</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>LEBANON'S PRESIDENTIAL RACE TO BEGIN IN MARCH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(141 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>IRAQI LEADER'S SON REPORTEDLY APPOINTED INTELLIGENCE CHIEF</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(127 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>PAKISTAN INTELLIGENCE BUREAU EXPANDED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(79 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>RAO RESHUFFLES INDIA'S CABINET</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(180 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>INDONESIAN PRESIDENT APPOINTS ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(290 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>NORTH KOREAN LEADER FAILS TO APPEAR AT BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(281 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>SOUTH KOREAN ARMY RELEASES REFORM PLAN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(154 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>THAILAND'S FOREIGN MINISTER ANNOUNCES RESIGNATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(315 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>RESIGNATION OF FINANCE MINSTER CALLS INTO QUESTION HUNGARY'S&nbsp;COMMITMENT TO REFORM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(426 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>POLISH PRESIDENT FORCES CABINET'S RESIGNATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(414 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>RUSSIA MAY CREATE NATIONAL GUARD</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(164 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY RESHUFFLED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(364 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><LI>NEW ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF APPOINTED IN CONGO</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(100 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><LI>AFTER FOILING COUP PLOT, GAMBIA'S LEADER PROMOTES ALLIES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(220 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><LI>NIGERIAN CABINET DISSOLVED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(550 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><LI>NEW POLICE COMMISSIONER APPOINTED IN SOUTH AFRICA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(177 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><LI>FRENCH SOCIALISTS FIND A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(119 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><LI>NEWLY INSTALLED IRISH GOVERNMENT SUFFERS ITS FIRST CASUALTY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(71 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><LI>ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER WINS NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(171 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><LI>NEW LEADERS FOR THE EU AND LUXEMBOURG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(153 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><LI>PORTUGAL'S PRIME MINISTER WITHDRAWS FROM NEXT ELECTIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(256 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><LI>SPANISH PRIME MINISTER RECEIVES CATALAN ENDORSEMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(157 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><LI>REFORMISTS APPOINTED IN CUBAN RESHUFFLE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(259 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><LI>NEW PRESIDENT TO RESHUFFLE URUGUAY'S HIGH COMMAND</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(152 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>ELECTION UPDATE</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#31"><LI>HAITI -- ELECTION UPDATE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(112 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><LI>RUSSIA -- ELECTION UPDATE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(63 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#33"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- AZERBADJIAN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(7 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- BELIZE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(34 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- BULGARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(122 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- CUBA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(51 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#37"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- GRENADA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(130 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#38"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- HAITI</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(70 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#39"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- ITALY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(159 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#40"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- MEXICO</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(17 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#41"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- SOUTH AFRICA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(14 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#42"><LI>SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- TUNISIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(46 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (OAU)

     The organization of African Unity (OAU) was established on May
25, 1963 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia for the purpose of: 1) promoting
unity and solidarity among African States, 2) intensifying and
coordinating efforts to improve living standards, 3) defending the
sovereignty , territorial integrity and independence of African
states, 4)eradicating colonialism, and 5) promoting international
cooperation, in keeping with the United Nations Charter.
     Membership: Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.
     Organization: There are four main organs of the OAU.  The
Assembly of Heads of State and Government, which meets in rotating
countries, is the highest authority.  The Council of Ministers,
comprised of foreign ministers from the member countries, meets on
a bi-annual basis, elects its own chairman each session, and
prepares the Assembly meetings.  The Secretariat General is the
permanent headquarters of the OAU.  Its Secretary General is
elected to a four-year term by the Assembly.  The final OAU organ
is the Council of Mediation, Councilitation and Arbitration, which
meets when necessary to hear and peacefully settle disputes between
member countries.  There are also several "specialized commissions"
attached to the OAU for economic, social, transport and
communications affairs; education, science, culture and health;
defense; human rights; and labor.
     Budget: Members contribute with their U.N. assessment.  No
member is assessed for an amount exceeding 20 percent of the
yearly regular OAU budget.
     Current Activities: At the 61st meeting of the OAU Council of
Ministers in late January, members concentrated on finding a
practical solution to the four-year-old Somali conflict by the end
of March when United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) is
scheduled to end.  Although no solutions were put forward,the
members resolved to hold two meetings, one ministerial and the
other at the summit level, in March to work out the details for
OAU to replace UNOSOM as the oversight body for Somalia.  The decision
is the second collective move by African countries toward the
Somali issue since the beginning of the year.  On January 4,
Africa's Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development
(IGADD) Committee called on all factions to avoid further
hostilities and bloodshed.
     OAU members view the resolution of the Somalia problem in
regional terms.  They stress that Africa's problems should be
solved by Africans.  OAU-mandated mediator, President Meles Zenawi
(Ethiopia) has stated that African nations have a better
understanding of the Somali social structure, mentality, and
relationships between clans than an outside force such as UNOSOM.

Therefore, African nations working in concert in the OAU enjoy
advantages in helping the Somalis solve their problems.  While no
one believes that the Somali conflict can be resolved in the near
future, there is great optimism among informed African Sources that
the OAU can begin to lay the foundation for a lasting peace.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

CONTACT -- ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (OAU)

OAU, P. O. Box 3243, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Telephone: (251 1)
517700; Facsimile (251 1) 513-36



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

WHO IS WHO IN BULGARIA

     By a vote of 138 to 91 with two abstentions, Zhan Videnov,
chairman of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) was elected prime
minister on January 25.  Soon after his confirmation, the 35-year
old Moscow-trained economist presented his cabinet to the
parliament for approval.  In spite of complaints by opposition
deputies that the new cabinet is populated with member of the
former communist elite, all ministers were approved.
     While it is true that the cabinet is dominated by former
senior communist officials, it also includes technocrats in some
key posts.  Videnov will be assisted by four deputy prime
ministers: Rumen Gechev, Doncho Konakchiev, Kiril Tsochev and
Svetoslav Shiravov.  The first three also have economic
portfolios,
with Gechev exercising overall control over the economy as
minister
for economic development.  Georgi Pirinski, who was deputy
foreign
trade minister under the Zhivkov regime but hails from the
reformist wing of the BSP, has been named foreign minister.
Historian Ilcho Dimitrov is the new minister of education - a
post
held in the 1980s.  Res. Adm. Dimiter Pavlov is the new defense
minister and Lyubomi Nachev, a former police officer, takes over
the Ministry of Interior.  The Ministry of Finance is headed by
Dimitar Kostov.  The BSP's coalition partners will hold three of
the 17 posts.  Svetoslav Shivarov and Vasil Chichibaba of the
Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union "Aleksandar Stambliyski" are
deputy prime minister and minister of agriculture, respectively,
and Georgi Georgiev of the Political Club Ekoglasnost is the
environment minister.
     In his speech as prime minister, Videnov announced an "anti-
crisis program" and pledged to cut unemployment and inflation.
He
said the new government will also speed up privatization and
agricultural reform while continuing to develop ties with
international lending organizations.  With regard to foreign
policy, Videnov said his government will promote Bulgaria's
integration into Europe and continue to take part in NATO's
Partnership for Peace program.  He promised to present a
four-year
legislative plan within 100 days and said the 1995 budget would
be
approved by the end of March.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

BIOGRAPHY - ZHAN VIDENOV - BULGARIA

Name: Zhan Videnov
Birthdate: 1959, Plovdiv.
Education: Degree in economics from Moscow Institute for
International Relations.
Party: Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP).
Private Career: Foreign Economic Relations Expert, Plovdiv
Biotechnics Corporation.
Political Career: Worker, Young Communist League; elected MP
(1990); elected BSP deputy floor leader (1991); elected Chairman
of
BSP (1991); Prime Minister (January 1995-present).
Contact: Office of the Prime Minister, 1, Dondoukov Blvd., 1194
Sofia. Telephone: (359 2) 87-24-44, Facsimile: (359 2) 87-08-78.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

BIOGRAPHY - GEORGI PIRINSKI - BULGARIA

Name: Georgi Pirinski.
Birthdate: 1948, New York City, NY.
Education: Graduated from Sofia's Higher Institute for Economics.
Party: Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP).
Political Career: Member, Bulgarian Communist (now Socialist)
Party
(1969-present); Deputy Minister, External Economic Relations;
Deputy Prime Minister (1980-90); Minister of foreign Affairs
(January 1995-present).
Contact: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2, Alexander Zhendov St.,
1113 Sofia.  Telephone (359 2) 71-441, Facsimile: (359 2)
70-93-92.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

BIOGRAPHY - VICE ADM. (RET.) DIMITER PAVLOV - BULGARIA

Name: Vice Adm. (Ret.) Dimiter Pavlov
Birthdate: 1938.
Education: Graduate of Higher Naval School Varna (1959);
Leningrad
Naval Academy (1974).
Party: Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP).
Private Career: Commander, ship-based combat unit; Commander,
patrol ship; Executive Officer, Varna Naval Base; Commander,
Bourgas Naval Base; Deputy Commander, Navy; Commander, Navy.
Political Career: Inspector General of Navy, Ministry of Defense;
Deputy Defense Minister, Military-Political Affairs (1994);
Deputy
Defense Minister, Social and Legal Affairs (1994-95); Minister of
Defense (January 1995-present).
Contact: Ministry of Defense, 3 Levski St., 1000 Sofia, Telephone
(359 2) 54-60-01, Facsimile:(359 2) 87-57-32.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

LEBANON'S PRESIDENTIAL RACE TO BEGIN IN MARCH

     The race for Lebanon's presidency is expected to begin in
March when the parliament will be able to consider introducing
constitutional amendments that would make it possible for
President Elias Hrawi to run for a second term. The current 
constitution does not allow an incumbent president to be
reelected or a civil servant to run for president if he did
not resign from his post two years before the polls. Amendments 
to these two articles will be considered.
     Even though Hrawi has recently stated that he does not want to
run for another six-year term, information out of Syria, and from 
within the Lebanese ruling establishment suggests that he would be 
reelected with little difficulty. If the law which prohibits civil 
servants rom running for office is repealed, Army Commander Gen. Emile 
Lahoud has been mentioned as a strong candidate.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

IRAQI LEADER'S SON REPORTEDLY APPOINTED INTELLIGENCE CHIEF

     Citing reliable sources, a Kurdistan newspaper reported on
February 10 that Abd Hasan al-Majid, the director of the General
Intelligence, has been replaced by Qusayy Saddam, the son of
Saddam Hussein.  Qusayy was last referred to as the chief of the Special
Security Organization (Jihaz Amn al-Khass), President Saddam's
personal secret service.
     Al-Majid was apparently sacked in connection with
revelations concerning several Iraqi assassination operations against such
targets as German Journalist Lisi Schmidt in Kurdistan and Ghalib
al-Suhayl, a leading Iraqi opposition figure, in Lebanon.  It is
curious to note that this was the same reason given for the
removal of al-Majid's predecessor, Maj. Gen. Sabir al-Duri in June, a
move generally regarded as a part of widespread purge of the al-Duri
family from the Iraqi leadership.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

PAKISTAN INTELLIGENCE BUREAU EXPANDED

     Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto approved an unprecedented
expansion of the Intelligence Bureau (IB), Pakistan's domestic
intelligence service, on January 28, creating 24 new posts at
levels below grade 20.(The News, January 29)  The move was taken
to broaden the agency's network and invigorate its anti-terrorist
activities.  According to informed sources, however, the
expansion has not yet received the consent of the Ministry of Finance 
or the Establishment Division, which must approve any financial or
administrative change in IB's status.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

RAO RESHUFFLES INDIA'S CABINET

     Prime Minister Narasimha Rao expanded the Council of
Ministers on February 9, inducting three new ministers of cabinet rank,
three as ministers of state, and elevated two ministers of state to the
cabinet rank.  He also reallocated the portfolios of some other
ministers.  This reshuffle, which was the second since Rao came
to power in 1991, was designed to resuscitate a cabinet depleted by
a string of sackings and resignations following the ruling Congress
party's defeats in regional polls last November.(See WGR, Vol
4.,No2)
     Two appointments stand out.  Rao has recalled Madhav Rao
Scindia, an Oxford educated scion of the ruling family Gwalir and
loyal Congress party stalwart, to be minister of human resources
development.  Scindia quit as civil aviation minister in January
1993 after accepting moral responsibility for the crash of a
Russian aircraft leased by the government-owned Indian Airlines.
The other major appointment is P. Chidambaram as a minister of
state for commerce.  A Harvard-educated lawyer and former home,
personnel and commerce minister, Chidambaram is widely admired in
industry for his strong advocacy of India's economic reform
program.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

INDONESIAN PRESIDENT APPOINTS ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF

     President Suharto installed Gen. Raden Hartono as Army chief
of staff on February 11, replacing Gen. Wismoyo Arismunandar, who
retired the day before.  As a 1962 graduate of the National
Military Academy, Hartono is senior to Wismoyo, who graduated in
1963.  Hartono, 53, however, is two years younger that his
predecessor, for he was the youngest graduate in his class.
     Officially, the 55-year old Wismoyo, the president's
brother-in-law, chose to retire because he has reached the military age
of retirement.  But Suharto could have kept him on until he was 60.
Gen. Fesal Tanjung, 57, chief of the Joint Service and commander-
in-chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia (ABRI),
has had his retirement deferred twice.  According to informed
sources, the president's decision not to extend Wismoyo's service
is related to the latter's tumultuous private life, which has
irritated his extended family.  And in order to show his
independence, he has at times shown more solidarity with the Army
than Suharto might have liked.  Having turned down an
ambassador's post, Wismoyo will become head of the National 
Indonesian Sports Committee.
     Wismoyo's retirement will not weaken Suharto's position
within the military.  The appointment of Hartono, considered to a be a
loner in the Army, reflects the president's desire to surround
himself with officers who owe their positions solely to him.
Before his recent appointment, Hartono was the chief of the Armed
Forces Sociological Department.  The son of a Muslim religious
scholar from Pamedasan, Madura, he held several senior posts in
the ABRI.  After his tenure as commander of the Brawijaya Regional
Military Command in East Java, he was appointed commandant of the
Army Command and Staff College (Bandung).  He then served as
governor of the National Defense Institute.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NORTH KOREAN LEADER FAILS TO APPEAR AT BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION

     On February 16, North Korea began a two-day celebration of
Kim Chong-il's 53rd birthday in what is believed to be a prelude to
his formal assession to power in the spring.  Kim, living up to his
reputation as a recluse, failed to make an appearance at the
festivities.  This did not stop the celebration from being
officially proclaimed as the "greatest holiday of nation," a
title that used to be formally reserved for the April 15 Birthday of
Kim's father, the late President Kim Il-sung.
     Kim Chong-il's avoidance of the lime-light since his
father's death last July has fed speculation that he was ill, which was
delaying his formal takeover of the two key posts of national
president and secretary general of the Korean Worker's Party.  In
the past six weeks, however, he has made four public appearances,
seemingly in better health than last summer when the emaciated
Kim appeared to suffer from facial paralysis.  Although these recent
appearances have laid to rest speculation about poor health, they
raised new questions whether Kim is engaged in a political
struggle with hardline elements within the high command since all were
liked to military events.
     According to informed South Korean sources, Kim wants to
extend the period of mourning for this father in order to
increase public acceptance of his succession.  One indication that he may
take power in Late April is the staging at that time of an
international sports and cultural festival in Pyongyang to which
10,000 foreign guests have been invited.  The event will most
likely also correspond with his father's embalmed body being
brought to its final resting place in the capital, which would
formally end the mourning period.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SOUTH KOREAN ARMY RELEASES REFORM PLAN

     In early February, the ROK Army revealed its plan for
drastic reorganization and downsizing of its headquarter.(Hangyore
Sinmun, February 3)  According to the plan, which was apparently overseen
by Chief of the General Staff Yun Yongnam, around two-thirds of
the officers attached to the present headquarters will be
transferred, many to field army staffs and educational institutes, such 
as the National Defense college and Military Staff College.
     The Army plans to merge the posts of Assistant Chief of
Staff for Information and the Assistant Chief of Staff for Operations
in order to streamline the General Staff bureaucracy.  In another
move, several independent administrative branches of the Army
will be reduced.  The Office of Communication and the Office of
Adjutant Generals will be incorporated into the Assistant Chief of Staff
for Logistics.  The Office of Personnel Management may also be
abolished for it overlaps with the duties of the Assistant Chief
of Staff for Personnel.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

THAILAND'S FOREIGN MINISTER ANNOUNCES RESIGNATION

     Thaksin Shinawatra, one of Thailands's most successful
businessmen, announced his resignation as minster of foreign
affairs on January 31 after a controversy involving potential
conflict of interest with his business empire.  He said that he
would resign before the end of February when a constitutional
tribunal is scheduled to rule on whether he can legally hold the
government portfolio.
     Thaksin, who is not an elected member of parliament, was
offered the foreign affairs post in November when Prime Minster
Chamlong Srimuang, the leader of the Palang Dharma party, sacked
all 11 of his party's ministers to try to boost its flagging
popularity.  Critics criticized the prime minister for giving
such a delicate job to an aggressive entrepreneur who had built up his
company (Shinawatra Telecommunications Group) on his ability to
win contracts for Thai and foreign governments.  Thaksin's position
was made more difficult in December when the legislature passed a new
constitution that banned ministers from holding government
monopoly concessions.(Financial Times, February 1)  He refused to divest
his more than $2 billion worth of shares in the Shinawatra group
which owns the country's two commercial satellites and a mobile phone
concession.  On becoming foreign minister, he resigned as
chairman of his flagship Shinawatra Computer and Communications group but
simply passed the reins to his wife.  This was not thought enough
to distance him from the corporate empire.  Under constant
pressure for critics inside and outside the government, Thaksin decided to
give up his government work and return to the private sector.
     Because of his short tenure, Thaskin's departure is unlikely
to disrupt Thai foreign policy.  Most of the more innovative
policies, covering cross-border economic cooperation, have been
overseen by Deputy Prime Minister Supachai Panichpakdi.  As for
Thaksin's successor, the new foreign minister will probably be a
Palang Dharma MP.  Although there are few qualified candidates,
informed sources point to Krasae Chanawong, the current
university minster.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

RESIGNATION OF FINANCE MINSTER CALLS INTO QUESTION HUNGARY'S
COMMITMENT TO REFORM

     Prime Minister Gyula Horn on February 7 nominated Budapest
Bank President Lajos Bokoros as minister of finance and Gyorgy
Suranyi, current head of the Central European International Bank,
as Hungarian National Bank Chairman.  The nomination of two
respected bankers is designed to restore confidence in Hungary's
financial management structure which was undermined by Finance
Minister Laszlo Bekesi's resignation on January 30.
     Bekesi, the architect of the Socialist party's economic
reform program, resigned after a long battle with government hardliners
over control of privatization.  Coming just two weeks after the
sacking of another prominent reformer, Privatization Chief Ferenc
Bartha, and a two month delay in naming a new central bank
governor, Bekesi's resignation cast doubt on the government's
commitment to economic reform.  In addition, his departure
reflected a growing strain within the ruling coalition.
     The uneasy ruling coalition, which was formed last July
between the Socialist party and the Alliance of Free Democrats
(ADF), began to show signs of serious disagreement over economic
policy almost from its inception.  The ADF, which is composed of
refugees from the former dissident movement, prefers market
reform and rapid privatization of state industries.  The Socialist
party, made up of reform elements of the former communist party,
however, prefers market reform and rapid privatization of state
industries. The Socialist party, made up of reform elements of the 
former communist party, however, prefers a slower pace to economic
reform and is not enthusiastic about widespread privatization.  The
tension between the two parties increase dramatically in January
with signs that Socialist Prime Minister Gyula Horn, whose ruling
style has become progressively more autocratic, had decided to
slow the pace of reform.  Bartha, who was the finance ministry's
ostensibly independent privatization commissioner, was seen as a
threat because he answered to Bekesi and not the prime minister's
office.  His sacking spurred ADF protests that the Socialists
were abandoning the coalitions's agreed economic program for the
steady transformation of the country's economic system.  Horn was also
criticized for not sufficiently consulting his coalition partners
before making policy decisions.
     In an attempt to repair the damage caused by Bekesi's
resignation, the two ruling parties agreed on February 14 to
appoint a new minister without portfolio to supervise
privatization.  The two parties also agreed to extend the
authority of the finance minister, giving him veto power over all
economic proposals forwarded to the government, a responsibility that
Bekesi had requested.  The ADF originally opposed creating the new post
and wanted the finance minister to supervise privatization.  The
extension of the finance minister's authority was a compromise
solution. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

POLISH PRESIDENT FORCES CABINET'S RESIGNATION

     On February 6, President Lech Walesa called for the
resignation of Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak and reshuffle of
the coalition government composed of the ex-communist Left Democratic
Alliance (SLD) and Pawlak's own Peasant Party (PSL).  Walesa
accused Pawlak of incompetence and said his government was making
little progress in reforming the country.  Three days later,
Pawlak in a speech before the PSL executive committee announced that he
would resign after the formation of a new government.  Walesa has
given preliminary backing to Speaker of the Parliament Jozef
Olesky, a compromise candidate from the SLD, to become the fifth
Polish prime minister in the post-communist era.
     Political and personality conflicts have plagued the
coalition since its creation in 1993, in particular between Alexander
Kwasniewski, the pragmatic SLD leader, and Prime Minister Pawlak.

Walesa, for whom the prospect of a long-term, stable government
led by his former communist opponents meant relegation to virtual
irrelevance, was quick to seize upon the internal stresses to
undermine the coalition.  By delaying the appointment of the
heads of the "power ministries" (defense, internal and foreign
affairs), he has campaigned to erode the government's efficacy.  Following
the resignation or sacking of all three ministers in the last few
months, none of the portfolios have been filled.  In addition,
Walesa in recent weeks has sought to drive a wedge between Pawlak
and Kwasniewski, denigrating the former and pointing to the
virtues of the latter as a potential prime minister.
     Walesa's actions are directly linked to his plans to seek a
second-five-year term in November.  Politically isolated by a
parliament in which he has few allies and which was elected in
1993 for a four-year term, the president decided that his political
survival was based on his ability to win the non-communist right
behind his candidacy.
     Pawlak's resignation may, however, prove to be a pyrrhic
victory.  For, while agreeing to replace the prime minister, the
PSL refused to nominate Kwasniewski as Wales had suggested.
Since Kwasniewski is regarded as one of the main potential contenders
for the presidency in November, his diversion into the premiership
would have removed a major obstacle to Walesa's reelection.
Instead, the PSL opted for Jozef Olesky, an intelligent and
deeply cynical former communist turned pro-market reformer.  Olesky is
openly contemptuous of Wales who he describes as the "proletarian
president."  An SLD-led government under his control would be
more efficient and less amenable presidential sabotage, leaving
Kwasniewski free to run against Walesa as the candidate of the
left.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

RUSSIA MAY CREATE NATIONAL GUARD

     President Boris Yeltsin's advisers are preparing to
establish a National Guard directly subordinate to the president's
office.(Izvestiya, January 24)  According to informed sources,
the guard will be used during times of turmoil as "an armed
organization that will be an instrument in the battle for
political power."  In periods of stability, the National Guard will be an
"armed pillar of the political leader of the state."  Its
responsibilities will mostly revolve around internal problems and
threats which are outside the army's jurisdiction.  Its
membership will be small, but elite.  Aleksandr Korzhakov, chief of the
Presidential Guard, is said to be the main force behind the
guards' creation.  The idea for it sprang from an "analytical center"
under his control which employs between 60 and 100 former KGB experts
and headed by Georgii Pagozin, Korzhakov's deputy.  If reports of the
creation of yet another internal security force is true, they add
to the increasing evidence that Korzhakov is exercising a
hardline influence on the president.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY RESHUFFLED

     President Boris Yeltsin issued a decree on January 19
appointing new deputy defense ministers as part of a shakeup of
the Ministry of Defense.  Civilian Andrei Kokoshin retained his
position as first deputy minister as did chief of the General
Staff Col. Gen. Mikhail Kolesnikov.  Deputy ministers Col. Gen.
Konstantin Kobets, the inspector general of the armed forces and
Col. Gen. Vladimir Toporov, who had been in charge of logistics,
also retained their posts.  Toporov was described in the decree
as a deputy minister without portfolio, although subsequent reports
have stated that such tasks as physical fitness training and
cultural and recreational activities will fall under his purview.

Col. Gen. Anatolii Solomatin, chief of construction and billeting
for the armed forces, and Col. Gen. Vladimir Churanov, chief of
rear services, became deputy ministers for construction and
billeting and logistical support, respectively.
     As expected, Col. Gen. Boris Gromov, Col. Gen. Georgii
Kondratyev and Col. Gen. Valerii Mironov were not reappointed,
nor was previously dismissed Col. Gen. Matvei Burlakov.  It is clear
that their removal was linked to their negative attitude to
Russian operations in Chechnya.  While Kondratyev and Mironov were
"assigned to other duties," presumably within the Ministry of
Defense, Gromov was appointed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
as the "chief military expert at large."  He is to serve as a
liaison between the two ministries as well as handle issues relating to
relations with NATO, strategic stability in Europe, and military
cooperation between CIS countries.
     In the wake of the debacle in Chechnya, rumors have begun to
surface concerning an new purge of the high command aimed at
Minister of Defense Gen. Pavel Grachev and his immediate circle
of advisers.  The Kremlin is said to be unhappy with his handling of
the war, which he promised would be over soon.  The Security
Council is particularly angry that Grachev has disclaimed
responsibility, shifting blame to it.  Andrei Kokoshin is being
considered for the minister's post, while Col. Gen. Andrei
Nikolayev, presently chief of the Federal Border Service, is
apparently a strong candidate for the post of Chief of the
General Staff.  The planned reshuffle is rumored to be set for March or
April.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NEW ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF APPOINTED IN CONGO

     President Pascal Lissouba appointed Gen. Daniel Mabika as
chief of the Army staff of the Congolese Armed forces (FAC) on
January 23.  Mabika succeeds Gen. Claude-Emmanuel Etat-Onka, who
was appointed on the same day as minster of sports in the
country's new government.  Trained in the former Soviet Union, Gen. Mabika
had since 1985 been chief of operations of the FAC headquarter,
thus making him Gen. Etat-Onka's first deputy.  The new
government is expected to reorganize the armed forces in the near future, as
well as the police and gendarmerie.  The militias of the various
political parties will be dismantled.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

AFTER FOILING COUP PLOT, GAMBIA'S LEADER PROMOTES ALLIES

     Capt. Yahya Jammeh, Gambia's military leader, promoted
Defense Minister Lt. Edward Singhateh to vice president and former
Western Division Commissioner Capt. Lamin Bajo to interior minister after
a purge of hardliners from the ruling council on January 30.(AFP,
January 30)  The reshuffle came in response to an alleged coup
attempt three days earlier by Vice President Lt. Sana Sabally and
Minister of Interior Capt. Sadibu Haidara.  Sabally and Haidara
have been arrested and are confined to Banjul's Mile Two prison.
     The dramatic events occurred as a commission was due to
publish its report on a timetable for the return to civilian
rule. Jammeh, who toppled civilian leader Sir Dawda Jawara last July,
unleashed a storm of protest in November when he said he did not
plan to hand over power until the end of 1998.  But in response
to international and local pressure, he set up a civilian commission
to canvass opinion and make a recommendation on the transfer of
power.  The commission recommended that the Armed forces
Provisional Council relinquish power by July 1996 and appoint an
interim government headed by a civilian prime minister, with
Jammeh remaining as head of state.  Hardliners within the Council, led
by Sabally and Haidara opposed the early transfer of power, wishing
to extend the present form of government to at least 1998.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NIGERIAN CABINET DISSOLVED

     Lt. Gen. Oladipo Diya, the number two person in the Nigerian
government, announced on February 9 that military ruler Gen. Sani
Abacha had dissolved the cabinet in order to allow some minister
to enter active politics.  The ministers are seeking to run for
office under a program for the military government's transition to
democratic rule which is yet to be announced.(Reuters, February
9) In light of an apparent narrowing of support for Abacha within
the military and a recent Constitutional Conference's decision to
force a transition within on year, many of the more ambitious ministers
are eager to establish their individual political credentials.
Diya said that a new cabinet will be named after a meeting of the
ruling all-military Provisional Ruling Council (PRC) but did not
indicate when it would meet.
     In the wake of last year's opposition attempt to force
Abacha to cede power to Moshood Abiola, the businessman widely believed
to have won an annulled 1993 presidential vote, Gen. Abacha promised
to make major changes in the government to make it more
effective. He also promised to announce a new transitional program that
would conclude with elections and a return to civilian rule.  A
Constitutional Conference was convened in Abuja to consider these
questions.  In december, the Conference stunned the government by
announcing that the military should turn over the reins of power
by January 1, 1996.  Almost immediately, the government began
lobbying to overturn the decision.  Conference delegates were courted and
envoys were sent abroad to explain that a quorum was not present
when the hand over vote was taken.  The Conference reconvened on
January 9, it decided to adjourn proceedings for two months thus
delaying the submission of its constitutional report to the
government and setting back the timetable for the unbanning of
political parties and fresh elections.  Even though Abacha was
successful in stifling the conference's attempt to enforce a
schedule for transition to civilian rule, the episode revealed
the limited amount of political loyalty he enjoys.
     In the midst of this leadership crisis, 14 of the 32-member
cabinet have signified their intention to quit the government to
pursue political careers.  All of these ministers belong to the
two political parties that vied for power after former military ruler
Gen. Ibrahim Babangida's promised transition to civil rule, which
led to Abacha a coming to power.  They are not keen to be linked
to an increasingly unpopular government and want to be free to from
their own alliances before it is too late.  Two of the more
notable politicians in the cabinet are Baba Gana Kingibe, foreign
minister, and Lateef Jakande, works minister, who have both run for
president in the past.
     As Nigeria attempts to establish a foreign exchange market,
crucial to the operation of the import-dependent economy, and
prepares for the start of a two-week international soccer
tournament in March, it is important that the government put this
crisis behind it as soon as possible.  Gen. Diya in his statement
announcing the dissolution of the cabinet said that outgoing
ministers who were not politicians could be considered for
reappointment. This indicates that Abacha will most likely not
use the cabinet reshuffle to stack the cabinet with proteges, which
would reveal an intention to abandon his promise to turn over
power to a civilian government.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NEW POLICE COMMISSIONER APPOINTED IN SOUTH AFRICA

     President Nelson Mandela announced the appointment of Gen.
George Fivaz as the new national commissioner of the South
African Police Services (SAP) on January 29.  Fivaz succeeds Gen. Johan
van der Merwe, who announced his retirement earlier this month.  In
addition, four new deputy commissioners were appointed: Gen.
Morgan Chetty, Gen. Mike Bester, Gen. Zolisa Lavisa and Gen. John
Manuel. 
     Gen. Fivaz's appointment came as little surprise , for he
has no connection with the SAP security apparatus responsible for the
enforcement of apartheid.  In fact, he has a reputation as a
reformer.  Having joined the SAP in 1964, he began his career as
a police officer at Bayswater in Bloemfontein.  In 1972, he was
appointed branch commander of the South African Narcotics Bureau
in the Orange Free State.  Four years later, he became a member of
the SAP National Inspectorate where he developed a particular
interest in policing styles, including community policing.  As chief of
Division Efficiency Services, he has played a critical role in
decentralizing authority within the national police force and
restructuring the SAP.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

FRENCH SOCIALISTS FIND A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE

     The French Socialist party (PS) had an embarrassingly
difficult search for a presidential candidate after the
withdrawal of former EU President Jacques Delors from the race.  They
rebounded on February 5, overwhelmingly approving the nomination
of Lionel Jospin to represent the party in preliminary elections on
April 23.  Jospin, a 57-years old former education minister,
defeated PS First Secretary Henri Emanuelli with two-thirds of
the PS delegate votes.  In what will probably remain a three-man
race, Jospin is hoping to defeat Gaullist mayor of Paris Jacques Chirac
and himself face frontrunner and current Prime Minister Edouard
Balladur in the final round on May 7.  Early polls released on
February 15, put the Socialist candidate one point ahead of
Balladur.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NEWLY INSTALLED IRISH GOVERNMENT SUFFERS ITS FIRST CASUALTY

     Irish junior Finance Minster Phil Hogan offered his
resignation in parliament on February 9 in a controversy over the
leaking of the government's annual budget statement.  Opposition
Fianna Fail ministers had demanded Hogan's resignation, accusing
him of divulging market sensitive information.  Hogan admitted
that part of the budget was faxed from his office to newspapers almost
four hours before it was to be made public by Minister of Finance
Ruairi Quinn.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER WINS NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE

     Former Central Bank Director Lamberto Dini took the helm of
the 54th post World War II Italian government, having been
confirmed by the Senate by a margin of 191-17 with two
abstentions on February 3.  However, 114 senators backing media magnate
turned politician  Silvio Berlusconi chose not to be present at the
vote, demonstrating tepid support for the new government.  On January
26, Dini survived a no-confidence vote in the Chamber of Deputies by
a margin of 302 in favor, 270 abstentions and 39 against.  The new
government bears all the indications of instability: it is
composed entirely of non-parliamentarians, had defined itself as a
transitional government and enjoys uncertain support.
     Ironically, Dini was endorsed by the enemies of the previous
rightwing government (in which Dini was finance minister) and
opposed by Dini's erstwhile Forza Italia  allies.  The Party of
the Democratic Left, the Democratic Alliance and the Northern League,
wanted to avoid early elections, while the Forza Italia faction
insisted on but did not get a fixed date for elections.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NEW LEADERS FOR THE EU AND LUXEMBOURG

     On January 23, the first new EU president in 10 years,
Jacques Santer, presided over a new European Commission in Brussels.
He is expected to carry out the mandates of the Maastrict Treaty:
consolidating the single market, advancing the European monetary
system, and fashioning common foreign and defense policies.  More
important may be his ability to adapt EU edicts to the changing
times, a logic which will be exercised in the 1996
Intergovernmental Conference, designed to amend the 1991
Maastrict Treaty.  Finally, he will be required to formulate an expansion
policy for new members and policies of engagement for non-EU
Europe.
     Succeeding Santer as head of the government of Luxembourg,
Jean-Claude Juncker took the reins as prime minister on January
21. The 40-year old former finance and labor minister pledged to
continue the work of Santer's Social Christian party.  He will
serve out the remainder of Santer's term, which ends in June
1999.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

PORTUGAL'S PRIME MINISTER WITHDRAWS FROM NEXT ELECTIONS

     On January 24, the district and regional leaders of the
prime minister's Social Democrat (PSD) party met to choose a successor
to Anibal Cavaco Silva after he announced he would not run in
elections in October.  His government's popularity has fallen
prey to economic recession, projected loss of parliamentary majority,
and a scandal stemming from a state corporation's breach of the
embargo on Indonesia.
     The government drew a wave of anger when it was revealed on
January 22 that General Aeronautical Workshop's (OGMA) had
accepted a contract to repair Indonesian Air Force helicopter engines.
The contract violates 1992 trade sanctions against Indonesia for
abuses of the population of East Timor.  This is the second such case in
as many months, the first involving illegal OGMA cooperation with
Angolan government armed forces.
     Opposition Communist party chairman Carlos Carvalhas called
for the government to resign and petitioned President Mario
Alberto Soares to call for early elections, while the more moderate
Socialists encouraged avoiding hasty dismissals and appeared to
wait for the October election.  Defense Minister Fernando Nogeira
was called upon to resign but refused, and denied that repairing
the engines either harmed the East Timorese or affected their
cause.  The prime minister defended OGMA and his government,
declaring that no government had fought as hard as the Portuguese
in favor of the East Timorese cause.  Opinion polls indicate his
PSD is unlikely to win a majority in the next election.  A
January 26 poll has the Socialists at 44.8 percent of the vote and 
PSD at 39.8 percent.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SPANISH PRIME MINISTER RECEIVES CATALAN ENDORSEMENT

     On February 9, the Catalan coalition Convergencia i Unio
supported the current Gonzalez government remaining in office at
least until the conclusion of the Spanish EU presidency at the
end of this year.  Felipe Gonzalez's grip on power withstood an
onslaught of criticism stemming from a difficult scandal in
January.  On January 10, El Mundo produced evidence that the
government had secretly paid 200 million peseta (about $1.5
million) to the families of policemen serving terms for
involvement in anti-ETA death squads in Basque country.  Euskadi to
Askatasuna (ETA-Basque Homeland and Liberty) is a "terrorist" 
organization in operation since 1959. The Grupos Antiterroristas 
de Liberaction (GAL) were formed in 1983 to opposed ETA.  Both 
groups are illegal.
     Pressure mounted on Gonzalez to resign as the private sector
also started taking a dimmer view of this continued tenure.  But
the prime minister of 13 years filed libel suits against all
those who linked the government with the GAL.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

REFORMISTS APPOINTED IN CUBAN RESHUFFLE

     Cuba reshuffled its cabinet on January 24, replacing several
veteran bureaucrats with younger, reform-minded technocrats.  The
shakeup, which removed two vice presidents and appointed six new
ministers, was designed to give fresh momentum to the economic
reforms being carried out by President Fidel Castro's government.
     Osvaldo Marinez, a 51-year old economist, replaces Antonio
Rodriguez Maurell as minister of economy and planning.  As head
of the economic commission of the National Assembly, Martinez had
played a prominent role in implementing recent reforms to
decentralize and revitalize the country's recession-hit economy.
Maurell, who also lost his vice president post, had previously
headed the now-abolished central planning board that ran Cuba's
economy while the country was still a member of the Soviet bloc
Comecon.
     The most intriguing appointment was that of Francisco
Soberon Valdes as president of the central bank.  He had previously
headed Acemex, a Liechtenstein-registered management group of 23
companies engaged in shipping and finance operations between Cuba and 18
other nations, including Japan, Greece, Norway and Netherlands.
Soberon is a former Ministry of Trade official who has negotiated
financing deals in Britain and Europe.  He replaced Hector
Rodriguez Llompart, a veteran member of Cuba's economic policy
team and former planning board chairman.
     Over the past 18 months, the Cuban government has moved to
open up more of the economy to foreign investment and market-
oriented reforms.  In addition to creating more flexibility in
the bureaucracy through purges and reshuffles, the Cuban leadership
also intends to cut state subsidies, reduce the government budget
deficit and encourage profitability in state companies.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

NEW PRESIDENT TO RESHUFFLE URUGUAY'S HIGH COMMAND

     According to several reports, president elect Julio Maria
Sanguinetti will appoint new commanders-in-chief of the Army,
Navy and Air Force upon his inauguration on March 1.  News of the
reshuffle followed statements by the current military commanders
that they were willing to remain in their posts if no
replacements were announced in advance of the new administration. In
accordance with the Military Organic Law, the present military commander
could continue in their posts until February 1996.
     Sources close to both the incoming president and President
Luis Alberto Lacalle have stated that Gen. Juan Carlos Curutchet,
currently the commander of the 2nd Army Division, will replace
Lt. Gen. Daniel Eduardo Garcia Silva as commander-in-chief of the
Army. Rear Adm. Raul Risso will replace James Croates as commander-in-
chief of the Navy.  Gen. Mario Aguerrondo, currently air attache
in Uruguay's Washington embassy, will replace Brig. Gen. Raul
Sampedro as commander-in-chief of the Air Force.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

HAITI -- ELECTION UPDATE

     On February 4, the parliament sent a bill to President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide allowing new elections, a key step in Haiti's
return to democracy.  On February 5, the terms of office of the
entire 83-member Senate expired.  Also expiring were the terms of
137 mayors and 565 town council members.  Election officials
estimate that balloting can be organized within three months
after the election bill becomes law.  If Aristide signs the bill and
publishes in the official state gazette, a procedure necessary
for a bill to become law, elections can be held as early as May.  It
is unclear how Aristide will govern in the meantime with most of the
parliament disbanded.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

RUSSIA -- ELECTION UPDATE

     Aleksandr Ivanchenko, deputy chairman of the Central
Election Commission, announced on January 31 that elections to the lower
house of parliament (Duma) will be held in December.  This date
is in line with the constitution, but Vladimir Shumeiko, the speaker
of the parliament's upper house, has recently stated that he
believes that the current parliament's term should be extended by
another two years.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- AZERBADJIAN

Minister of Defense: Lt. Gen. Safar Abiev



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- BELIZE

Minister of Economic Development: Manuel Esquivel
Minister of National Security: Dean Barrow
Minister of Labor: Elito Urbina
Minister of Housing, Urban Development and Cooperatives: Hubert Elrington
Minister of Science, Technology and Transportation: Joseph Cayetano



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- BULGARIA

Prime Minister: Zhan Videnov
Deputy Prime Minister: Roumen Gechev
Deputy Prime Minister: Doncho Konakchiev
Deputy Prime Minister: Kiril Tsochev
Deputy Prime Minister: Svetoslav Shivarov
Minister of Foreign Affairs: Georgi Pirinsli
Minister of Defense: Vice Adm. Dimiter Pavlov
Minister of Interior: Lyubomir Nachev
Minister of Culture: Georgi K. Georgiev
Minister of Environment: Georgi D. Georgiev
Minister of Finance: Dimiter Kostov
Minister of Transport: Stamen Stamevov
Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing: Vassil Chichibaba
Minister of Justice: Mladen Chervenyakov
Minister of Labor and Social Affairs: Mincho Korlaski
Minister of Health Care: Mimi Vitkova
Minister of Education, Science and Techonology: Ilcho Dimitrov
Minister of Economic Development: Roumen Gechev
Minister of Regional Development and Construction: Doncho Konachiev
Minister of Trade and Foreign Economic Cooperation: Kiril Tsochev



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- CUBA

Minister of Economy and Planning: Osvaldo Martinez Martinez
Minister of Fishing Industry: Orlando Felipe Rodriguez Romay
Minister of Light Industry: Jesus Perez Othon
Minister of Domestic Trade: Barbara Castillo Cuesta
Minister of Labor and Social Security: Salvador Valdez Mesa
Minister of Government: Wilfredo Lopez Rodriguez
President National Bank: Francisco Soberon Valdez



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "37"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- GRENADA

Prime Minister: Geroge Brizan
Minister of Legal Affairs and Local Government: Dr. Franois Alexis
Minister of Finance and Planning: Michael Andrew
Minister of Works, Communications and Public Utilities: Joan
Purcell
Minister of Health, Housing and Environment: Phinsley St. Louis
Minister of Labor, Social Security, Cooperatives and Community
Development: Edzel Thomas
Minister of Education: Carlyle Glean
Minister of Tourism, Civil Aviation, Social Development, Culture,
Youth and Sport: Tillman Thomas
Minister of Agriculture: George Brizan
Minister of CARICOM Affairs and Political Unification: Franois Alexis
Minister of Women's Affairs: Joan Purcell
Minister of External Affairs: George Brizan
Minister of Carriacou and Petit Martinique Affairs: Joan Purcell
Minister of National Security: George Brizan
Minister if Information: Joan Purcell
Minister of State: Denis Noel
Minister of State: Kenny Lalsingh
Minister of State: Dr. Lawrence Gibbs



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "38"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- HAITI

Minister of External Affairs: Pranab Mukherjee
Minister without Portfolio: Dinesh Sigh
Minister of Human Resource Development: Madhav Rao Scindia
Minister of Civil Supplies: Buta Singh
Minister of Food: Ajit Sigh
Minister of Textiles: G. Venkatswarny
Minister of Labor: Purno Sangma
Minister of State, Commerce: P. Chidambaram
Minister of State and Power: Urmilaben Patel
Minister of State and Parliamentary Affairs: Matang Singh
Minister of State and Water Resources: P.V. Rangayya Naidu



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "39"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- ITALY

Prime Minister: Lamberto Dini
Deputy Prime Minister: Agostino Gambino
Minister of Foreign Affairs: Susanna Agnelli
Minister of Interior: Antonio Brancaccio
Minister of Justice: Filippo Mancuso
Minister of the Budget: Rainer Masera
Minister of Finance: Augusto Fantozzi
Minister of Treasury: Lamberto Dini
Minister of Defense: Domenico Corcione
Minister of Education: Giancarlo Lombardi
Minister of Public Works and Environment: Paolo Baratta
Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Resources: Walter Luchetti
Minister of Transport and Merchant Marine: Giovanni Caravale
Minister of Posts and Telecommunications: Agostino Gambino
Minister of Industry, Commerce and Craft: Alberto Clo'
Minister of Labor and Social Welfare: Tiziano Treu
Minister of Foreign Trade: Alberto Clo'
Minister of Health: Elio Guzzanti
Minister of National Patrimony: Antonio Paolucci
Minister of University, Scientific and Technology Research: Giorgio Salvini
Minister of Relations with Parliament: Domenico Marra
Minister without Portfolio, Public Administration and Regional
Affairs: Franco Frattini
Minister without Portfolio, Public Administration and Regional
Affairs: Adriano Ossicini
Minister without Portfolio, Institutional Reform: Giovanni Motzo



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "40"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- MEXICO

Secretary of Education: Miguel Limon Rojas
Secretary of Agrarian Reform: Arturo Warman
Secretary of Agriculture: Labastida Ochoa



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "41"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- SOUTH AFRICA

Inspector General, Army: Maj. Gen. J.M. Dippenaar
Commander, Eastern Transvaal: Maj. Gen. D. Ferreira



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "42"></A>Copyright
WORLDWIDE GOVERNMENT REPORT via NewsNet
MARCH 1995

SENIOR APPOINTMENTS -- TUNISIA

Minister of State, Adviser to President: Abdallah Kallel
Minister of Interior: Mohamed Jegham
Minister of Economic Development: Mustapha Nabli
Minister Industry: Slaheddine Bouguerra
Minister of Trade: Slaheddine Ben M'Barek
Minister of Communications: Habib Ammar
Minister of Tourism and Handicrafts: Slaheddine Maaoui
Minister of Culture: Salah Bakkari



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-3</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-41</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh47.html 205.156.212.5 19970115021805 text/html 36830
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:16:18 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:19 GMT
Content-length: 36641
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh47.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet <BR>
August 10, 1993<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>9TH CIR. SAYS WORKER'S TRANSFER WAS REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(590 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>CA SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF RULING IN FAVOR OF IRWIN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(700 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>NC JUDGE GRANTS AZT PATENT RIGHTS TO BURROUGHS WELLCOME</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(401 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>IN APP. CT. AFFIRMS DISMISSAL OF HEALTH BENEFITS BIAS SUIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(372 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>AL CT. SAYS BLOOD SHIELD LAW BARS PRODUCT-LIABILITY SUIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(472 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>NY CT. SAYS PRIVACY IS NOT PROTECTED IN PUBLIC PROCEEDING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(355 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>LA APP. CT. SAYS SUIT OVER '85 TRANSFUSION WAS FILED LATE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(411 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>CONNECTICUT COURT DENIES DOCTOR'S MOTION FOR NONSUIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(323 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>SETTLEMENT ENDS HIV BIAS SUIT AGAINST CA DENTAL CHAIN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(392 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>NY FUNERAL HOME TOLD TO PAY $60,000 TO SETTLE BIAS CASE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(304 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>CA CT. AFFIRMS ENHANCED SENTENCE FOR HIV SEX CRIME</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(433 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>CCBC'S BRIEF IN BLOOD TEST DISPUTE WAS FILED NEUTRALLY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(371 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

9TH CIR. SAYS WORKER'S TRANSFER WAS REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION

     The Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals on July 13 affirmed a
trial court's ruling which denied the U.S. Postal Service's motion
for summary judgment in a suit over its refusal to allow an HIV-
positive worker to transfer from Mississippi to California so he
could obtain better health care services  (Buckingham v. United
States of America et al., 9th Cir., No. 91-56236).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Appellant Melvin Buckingham worked for several months in the
Columbus, MS, post office when in 1988 he applied for a transfer to
Los Angeles so that he could avail himself of better medical care
for persons with HIV conditions there.  Although his request was
granted by his Mississippi superiors, he discovered upon arriving
in California that the Los Angeles Post Office would not agree to
waive a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with its employees'
unions requiring one year of seniority before workers could seek a
transfer.

     Buckingham appealed the decision to the Equal Opportunity
Employment Commission (EEOC), where an administrative law judge
said the transfer was a reasonable accommodation under the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (the Act) and that the Postal Service's
one year seniority requirement conflicts with its obligations under
the act.  After the Postal Service rejected the ALJ's
recommendation, Buckingham filed suit in U.S. District Court for
California's Central District.

     U.S. District Court Judge Terry J. Hatter rejected the Postal
Service's arguments that transfers for medical treatment are not
required as a matter of law and that catering to Buckingham would
violate the rights of other employees who met seniority
requirements and were seeking transfers.  Ruling sua sponte, the
judge ordered that Buckingham be reinstated and awarded back pay.

     "Buckingham is not asking for a different job.  Nor is he
asking for a job that is not reasonably available under the Postal
Service's existing policies," said the Ninth Circuit in
affirmation.  "He is asking for the same job at a different
location.  It is not unreasonable under the Rehabilitation Act to
transfer Buckingham to a location where he can obtain better
medical treatment for his handicap."

     The panel's opinion by Senior U.S. Circuit Court Judge Warren
J. Ferguson said although qualified handicapped employees may be
able to perform the essential functions of their job, they are not
precluded from a reasonable accommodation to allow them to "(a)
enjoy the privileges and benefits of employment equal to those
enjoyed by non-handicapped employees or (b) pursue therapy or
treatment for their handicaps.  In other words, an employer is
obligated not to interfere, either through action or inaction, with
a handicapped employee's efforts to pursue a normal life."

     Although affirming the trial court's reasonable accommodation
ruling, the Ninth Circuit remanded the case to allow the government
to challenge the assumptions that Buckingham could get better
medical care in Los Angeles and that he was or would be able to
perform the essential functions of his job.  The panel said Judge
Hatter erred in issuing his sua sponte ruling without allowing the
Postal Service to present opposing arguments on factual disputes
"which must be resolved in Buckingham's favor in order for him to
prevail."  The Ninth Circuit said the government did not receive
sufficient notice of Judge Hatter's potential entrance of summary
judgment.

     Buckingham is represented by Stuart Herman of Herman & Wallach
in Los Angeles.  The Postal Service is represented by U.S. Justice
Department attorney John P. Schnitker of Washington, DC.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

CA SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF RULING IN FAVOR OF IRWIN

     The California Supreme Court, in a 4-3 decision issued
July 15, denied a request to review an appeals court ruling which
said Irwin Memorial Blood Bank (Irwin) met the industry's standard
of care by not using surrogate test procedures to screen blood in
November 1983  (Wilson v. Irwin Memorial Blood Bank, CA Sup. Ct.,
No. S032902).

     (The opposing briefs are available from Andrews Document
Access Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from
Pennsylvania.)

     On appeal to the high court, attorneys for plaintiff Cynthia
Watson maintained that the courts below wrongly refused to judge
the actions of Irwin based on those of other blood banks in
"similar circumstances."  Judging the defendant on the basis of
actions by blood banks not confronted with the high level of risk
Irwin faced during that period, they claimed, was inappropriate.

     Watson's appeal brief, filed May 19, argued that the trial
court jury which decided against her was incorrectly told to
consider her claims based on a jury instruction designed only for
use in cases of misdiagnosis or improper treatment choice by a
medical professional.  It also asked the high court to decide if
the exclusion of certain testimony by dermatologist Marcus Conant,
M.D., and biostatistician Byron Brown, M.D., was appropriate simply
because neither was a "blood banker and was therefore not qualified
to testify as to the standard of care for blood banks."

     Watson maintained that the underlying decision by the state's
First District Court of Appeal was in conflict with other state
appellate decisions by declaring that the "standard of practice is
conclusive proof of the standard of care."  Watson said the
replacement of her "same or similar circumstances" standard of care
theory "with a weighing of what the majority of blood banks across
the nation were doing, results in a comparison of Irwin with blood
banks which were not at any risk of AIDS through their blood."

     Watson cited the Colorado Supreme Court's 1992 ruling in
United Blood Services v. Quintana, in which it said a trial court
erred in excluding the testimony of Dr. Conant on behalf of a
similarly situated plaintiff.  Said the Quintana court, "If the
standard adopted by a practicing profession were to be deemed
conclusive proof of due care, the profession itself would be
permitted to set the measure of its own legal liability, even
though that measure might be far below a level of care readily
attainable through the adoption of practices and procedures
substantially more effective in protecting others against harm than
self-decreed standards of the profession."

     Holding that the appellant offered no proof that it "failed to
do something that...other blood bankers would have done in similar
circumstances," Irwin argued against review of the appellate
ruling, saying it posed no conflict with other California courts.

      The partial exclusion of testimony from Dr. Conant "was not
based on the fact that Dr. Conant had not run a blood bank,"
responds Irwin, but due to the fact that "he was not shown to be
familiar with the standard of care for blood banks in November 1983
or at any other time."

     "While petitioner's outside experts opined that Irwin should
have been doing 'more' about AIDS and doing it sooner, there was no
evidence that at that time any blood bank except Stanford was, in
fact, doing what they testified 'should' have been done by Irwin,
and not even Stanford was running the T-cell test on all the blood
used there," replied Irwin on June 8.  "One blood bank is not a
'great minority' of blood banks as urged by the petitioner...it is
just one blood bank."

     Allowing "ad hoc judgments by lay jurors aided by hindsight"
in professional malpractice cases, argued Irwin, would "thwart"
California public policy and "elevate the standards required of
medical professionals beyond the reasonable expectations of the
profession to strict liability regardless of fault."

     Wilson is represented by Fred Meis and Sarah Jane Burgess of
Meis & Burgess in San Francisco.  Irwin is counseled by Charles
Bond, Heather McKee and Stephanie Gandolfi of Charles Bond &
Associates in Berkeley, CA, with James Dillon and Thomas Manning of
O'Connor, Cohn, Dillon & Barr in San Francisco.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

NC JUDGE GRANTS AZT PATENT RIGHTS TO BURROUGHS WELLCOME

     A U.S. District Court Judge in New Bern, NC, on July 22
concluded a four-week trial over the patent rights to the AIDS drug
AZT by issuing a directed verdict on behalf of Burroughs Wellcome
Co., rejecting claims by two pharmaceutical firms who said they
should be allowed to sell their own versions of the drug because it
was developed under guidance of U.S. Government researchers
(Burroughs Wellcome Co. v. Barr Laboratories Inc., Burroughs
Wellcome Co. v. Novopharm Ltd., Burroughs Wellcome Co. v. Novopharm
Inc., ED NC, Nos. 91-41-CIV-4-H, 92-134-CIV-4-H, 92-156-CIV-4-H).

     Judge Malcom J. Howard's decision is expected to be appealed
to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit by defendants
Barr Laboratories Inc. and Novopharm Ltd., each of whom were sued
by North Carolina-based Burroughs Wellcome when they announced
plans to begin selling generic versions of the drug based on the
premise that Burroughs Wellcome was not AZT's rightful patent
holder.

     "The court has felt for some time that United States law, as
applied in this case, dictates that Burroughs Wellcome scientists
were the sole inventors of AZT," stated Judge Howard from the
bench.  Burroughs and Barr sought a ruling from the judge after
only a handful of the more than 200 witnesses were called.  Barr
sought the ruling so that it could appeal Judge Howard's definition
of inventorship without having to pursue the costly trial.

     The defendants maintain that former National Institutes of
Health physicians Samuel Broder and Hiroaki Mitsuya completed the
key research which later allowed Burroughs Wellcome to apply AZT,
known generically as zidovudine and sold by Burroughs Wellcome as
Retrovir, for use in the fight against AIDS.

     While patients using AZT pay some $2,000 annually for the
drug, the New York-based Barr and Canadian Novopharm say they would
sell the drug for a fraction of that amount.  Burroughs Wellcome
holds that its researchers developed the drug and that it is
entitled to maintain the patent, which runs through 2005.

     Burroughs Wellcome is represented by Thomas F. Curnin of
Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in New York City, and locally by Mark Ash
of Smith, Anderson, Blunt, Dorsett, Mitchell & Jurnigan in Raleigh,
NC.  Representing Barr are Dan Webb and local attorney John A.J.
Ward of New Bern.  Novapharm is represented by Robert Green of
Chicago and Rudy Ashton, also of New Bern.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

IN APP. CT. AFFIRMS DISMISSAL OF HEALTH BENEFITS BIAS SUIT

     The Indiana Court of Appeals on July 6 unanimously affirmed a
trial court decision which said the state's Civil Rights Commission
(ICRC) erred in ruling an employer had violated state law by
cutting health benefits available to an AIDS victim because the
local law is preempted by federal statutes, which then did not
prohibit such discrimination (Westhoven v. Lincoln Foodservice
Products, Inc., IN Ct. of Apps., 2nd Dist., No. 35A02-9206-CV-260).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     An attorney for the estate of Kenneth Westhoven says no appeal
is planned in the case, noting that such a claim would now be
prohibited by the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), which was
not in effect when defendant Lincoln Foodservice Products reduced
the maximum benefits allowed for AIDS-related illnesses under its
self-funded employee insurance program.  Westhoven, an industrial
engineer, filed an ICRC action against the firm in 1990 based on
the changes it made to the plan in 1988 which capped lifetime
benefits for AIDS at $50,000, while other employees were provided
a $1 million limit.

     The commission found Lincoln to be in violation of Indiana's
Civil Rights Law (ICRL).  Lincoln appealed the decision to a state
trial court, which reversed the ruling on the grounds that the
state law is preempted by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (ERISA).

     "Pursuant to the ADA, and Indiana's companion legislation,
Lincoln is presently prohibited from discriminating upon the basis
of a handicap, i.e., against a 'qualified individual with a
disability,' in a wide range of employment practices," said the
appellate decision.  "At the time of the alleged discrimination,
however, Lincoln was not bound by the ADA.  This is true
notwithstanding the fact that the ICRL pre-dated parallel
provisions of federal law which now control."

     Because ERISA preempts the state's civil rights laws,
concluded the appeals court, "the Commission was without
jurisdiction to proceed upon Westhoven's complaint alleging
discrimination in the terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment."

     Lincoln is represented by Thomas Kimbrough and David Steiner
of Barrett & McNagny of Fort Wayne, IN.  The estate is represented
by Richard Swanson of Macey, Macey and Swanson in Indianapolis.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

AL CT. SAYS BLOOD SHIELD LAW BARS PRODUCT-LIABILITY SUIT

     Ruling that the supply of blood coagulant is considered a
service and not the sale of a product in the state, an Alabama
circuit court on June 8 granted defense motions to dismiss product
liability-based claims filed against two pharmaceutical firms by a
man who says their factorate products infected him with the AIDS
virus (Watkins v. Armour Pharmaceutical Co. et al., AL Cir. Ct.,
Calhoun Cty., No. CV-92-452).

     (The order is available from Andrews Document Access Service.
Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Plaintiff Richard D. Watkins, who now has AIDS, received blood
products manufactured by defendants Armour Pharmaceutical Co. and
Miles, Inc. while hospitalized at Northeast Alabama Regional
Medical Center in 1982, 1983, and 1984.  His suit charged the
pharmaceutical firms with strict liability in tort on the grounds
that the blood products they processed and provided him were
unreasonably dangerous and defective because they were contaminated
with the AIDS virus.

     The defendants suggested, and Circuit Court Judge Malcom B.
Street Jr. agreed, that such a suit is barred by Alabama's Blood
Shield Statute (Code Sec. 7-2-314[4]), which says that despite
remuneration to the provider, the supply of "human whole blood,
plasma, blood products, blood derivatives...is declared not to be
a sale...."

     Ruled the court, "this 'blood shield statute' clearly states
that the actions of defendants Armour, Miles and Northeast Alabama
Regional Medical Center in furnishing and distributing Factor VIII
blood products to the plaintiff were a service provided to the
plaintiff, Watkins.  The transaction of which the plaintiffs
complain is expressly declared by the statute 'not to be a sale',
thus, the plaintiff cannot maintain an action based on the theories
of express or implied warranties, or theories under the Alabama
Extended Manufacturer's Liability Doctrine."

     The judge also rejected the plaintiff's claim that the
products provided him were not blood derivatives, but instead
drugs, which are excluded from the application of the blood shield
law.  "The only source of Factor VIII is human blood," he wrote.
"The processing methods and the additions of additives does not
eliminate the core component of Factor VIII -- blood."

     Judge Street, however, allowed the plaintiff's accusations of
negligence against the defendants to remain "as viable claims for
the present."

     Miles is represented by Denise Dodson and James Gerwin of
Bradley, Arant, Rose & White in Birmingham, AL; Terry Tottenham and
John Beckwith of Fulbright and Jaworski in Austin, TX; and Geoffrey
R.W. Smith of McDermott, Will & Emery in Washington, DC.  John
Johnson of Lightfoot, Franklin, White & Lucas in Birmingham and
Douglas Fuson, Sara Gourley and Lory Barsdate of Sidley & Austin in
Chicago represent Armour.

     Watkins is represented by Karen Ross and Lloyd Gathings of
Gathings & Davis, and Robert Parsons of Parsons, Lee & Juliano.
All are located in Birmingham.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

NY CT. SAYS PRIVACY IS NOT PROTECTED IN PUBLIC PROCEEDING

     A federal judge in Manhattan on June 14 dismissed a man's suit
which claimed his identity and HIV-positive status were revealed in
a New York City Commission on Human Rights press release that
detailed a settlement he reached in a bias suit against Delta Air
Lines (Doe v. The City of New York, the City of New York Commission
on Human Rights et al., SD NY, No. 92-CIV.-8044[TPG]).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     U.S. District Court Judge Thomas P. Griesa ruled against
plaintiff "John Doe" on the grounds that while the August 1992
conciliation agreement he reached with Delta may have barred the
disclosure of his identity, the negotiations which led to the
agreement were public record proceedings of the Commission.

     In early 1992, Doe filed a commission complaint against Delta,
claiming the company refused to hire him because of his sexual
orientation and because he was HIV-positive.  The agreement under
which he was hired by Delta with back pay was executed with the
assistance of the commission's Law Enforcement Bureau.  Although a
commission press release on the agreement did not mention Doe by
name, Doe says it included enough detail to allow his co-workers to
discover that he was the subject of the settlement.

     "Whatever right of confidentiality plaintiff had came from the
contract he entered into with Delta and the Commission, and stems
from the contract not the Constitution," wrote Judge Griesa, who
also dismissed state-based claims for lack of jurisdiction.
"Plaintiff's proceeding before the Commission and the resulting
conciliation agreement would have been a matter of public record
but for the non-disclosure provision of the agreement."

     The judge noted a "difference of view among the parties as to
the proper interpretation of the contract," and said "what needs to
be litigated here is the issue of contract interpretation."

     Doe is represented by Thomas J. Hall and Marla Hassner of
Chadbourne & Parke.  The defendant is represented by Assistant
Corporation Counsel Neil Corwin. All are located in New York City.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

LA APP. CT. SAYS SUIT OVER '85 TRANSFUSION WAS FILED LATE

     The Louisiana Court of Appeals on June 16 rejected the
assertions of an HIV-positive woman who said her infection liabilty
suit against a hospital was based on strict liability, not medical
malpractice laws, and affirmed the dismissal of her suit as
untimely (In re: LeBlanc v. Meza, LA Ct. of App., 3rd Cir., No. 92-
1040).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     The panel, in a 3-2 decision, said it would not "carve an
exception" out of state law to accept Murley LeBlanc's strict
liability claim against Our Lady of Lourdes Regional Medical Center
for the "distribution of defective blood."  It also said that the
record did not support her claim that because the hospital and two
defendant physicians failed to tell her that she had received a
transfusion during a March 5, 1985, operation there, they acted to
delay her suit against them.

     The plaintiff, who was transfused 15 days before Lourdes
received a newly-released test for detecting HIV-tainted blood,
learned she was HIV-positive in August 1989.

     While the majority rejected LeBlanc's argument against the
constitutionality of the state's medical malpractice limitations
statute (La. R.S. 9 Sec. 5628), a dissenting justice said the rule
discriminates against plaintiffs unaware of an injury until after
the expiration of an applicable three year period.  "Malpractice
claims have long been recognized in this state," said the dissent.
"A cause of action for malpractice was vested and existed the
moment the first drop of tainted blood entered the plaintiff's
body.  The distinction is that it had not accrued prior to the
lapse of a three year period.  The statute does not operate as a
bar to a cause of action before it existed, but operated to limit
the cause of action.  Therefore, the LeBlancs had a cause of action
that was a vested property right."

     The majority noted that recent judicial rulings in the state
indicate that a Louisiana Supreme Court ruling on the legality of
Sec. 5628 "is imminent."   It said, however, that it would "await
a decision" and declined to declare the statute unconstitutional
"based on the statistical evidence presented by the LeBlancs."
Concluded the panel, "while it may be true that the statute
operates to discriminate against Mrs. LeBlanc and members of her
class, we cannot say that this discrimination overrides the state's
interest in limiting the time period for bringing medical
malpractice actions."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

CONNECTICUT COURT DENIES DOCTOR'S MOTION FOR NONSUIT

     A Connecticut Superior Court Judge rejected on June 10 a
defendant physician's motion for nonsuit in an AIDS confidentiality
case pending an in camera review of the plaintiff's social services
files (Doe v. Marselle, CT Super. Ct., Jud. Dist. of Hartford/New
Britain, No. CV-92-0449141S).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Judge Marshall K. Berger Jr. sealed the case file after
issuing his memorandum ordering plaintiff "Jane Doe" to present
notes from her social worker's file which she says are unrelated to
her claims against defendant Dionisio Flores, M.D.  The physician
requested the information as part of the discovery process in the
suit in which Doe accuses Flores of improperly releasing
confidential information on her HIV status.

     Dr. Flores moved for nonsuit in September 1992 after receiving
redacted versions of the documents in question.  While Doe
maintains the files on her conversations with the social worker are
not related to the claims asserted in the suit, the physician
insists they are directly tied to Doe's accusations that the
disclosure of her HIV status caused damage to her reputation,
severe mental distress and physical manifestations of that
distress.

     Judge Berger ordered that the documents be presented for his
review, noting that their disclosure could be allowed under state
law in cases in which a plaintiff "introduces his mental condition
as an element of his claim or defense."  Concluded the court, "if,
as the plaintiff asserts, the redacted portions of the notes are
unrelated to the injuries in the complaint, the interests of
justice may not require disclosure."

     Dr. Flores is represented by Anna M. Carbonaro of O'Keefe,
Dunn & Jackson of Hartford, CT.  Co-defendant Doris Marselle is
counseled by Jim Hayes of Hanrahan, Grabowski & Hayes in Bristol,
CT.  Susan Garten of the Legal Aid Society of Hartford and West
Redding, CT, attorney Eileen McGann represent Doe.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

SETTLEMENT ENDS HIV BIAS SUIT AGAINST CA DENTAL CHAIN

     The Los Angeles City Attorney's office and a chain of area
dental clinics on June 16 announced the settlement of a California
Superior Court suit which accused the firm of discriminatorily
denying dental treatment to persons with HIV or AIDS-related
illnesses (The People of the State of California v. Western Dental
Services, Inc. CA Super. Ct., Los Angeles Cty., No. BC050051).

     (The settlement agreement is available from Andrews Document
Access Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from
Pennsylvania.)

     Without admitting that it committed acts of discrimination,
defendant Western Dental Services, Inc., operator of several
clinics in the Los Angeles area, agreed to the dismissal of the
suit against it in return for its implementation of an ongoing
training program on AIDS-related issues for its professional and
staff employees.

               Under the agreement, Western reaffirms its written employment
policies which "reflect its commitment to provide dental care
services to HIV-positive and AIDS patients on a non-discriminatory
basis."  Western will update its patient information materials
reflecting its non-discrimination policies and make them available
to the public in both English and Spanish.

     The settlement, approved by Superior Court Judge Victor E.
Chavez, calls for the court to monitor Western's performance for
three years and contains provisions for reporting violations of its
terms and conditions.

     The suit was originally filed in March 1992 by several civil
rights organizations on behalf of four HIV-positive men who said
they were denied further treatment by Western after revealing their
medical status.  Kathleen M. Wohn, an attorney for the original
plaintiffs, says the portion of the settlement applying to them
remains confidential."

     The state is represented by Los Angeles City Attorney James
Hahn, and Deputy City Attorneys David Schulman and Henry Burr.
Richard Goodman, Julie Porter and John Cannon of Stradling, Yocca,
Carlson & Rauth represent Western, while co-defendant Grace Cho,
D.D.S., is represented by Patrick Madden and Paul Pearlson of
Cameron, Madden, Pearlson, Noblin & Sellers.  All are located in
Los Angeles.

     The original plaintiffs are represented by Wohn, Michael
Bierman, and Robin Wiener of Tuttle & Taylor in Los Angeles.  The
suit was filed with assistance from the ACLU Foundation of Southern
California, Western Law Center for the Handicapped, Lambda Legal
Defense & Education Fund, AIDS Project Los Angeles, and the Gay and
Lesbian Community Services Center.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

NY FUNERAL HOME TOLD TO PAY $60,000 TO SETTLE BIAS CASE

     A New York Division of Human Rights commissioner on June 9
ordered a New Windson, NY, funeral director to pay $20,000 in
compensatory damages to each of three siblings of an AIDS victim
who were convinced not to follow their brother's wish to have an
open casket service based on the funeral director's claim that the
body would pose a health threat to them and their visitors
(Agresti v. Coloni Funeral Home, Inc. et al., NY Div. of Human
Rights, Nos. 9K-P-D-89-134721, 9K-P-D-89-134723, 9K-P-D-89-134793).

     (The ruling is available from Andrews Document Access Service.
Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Commissioner Margarita Rosa found that Richard Coloni,
operator of the Coloni Funeral Home, violated New York State Human
Rights Law in April 1989 when he persuaded complainants Frank
Agresti, Greg Agresti, and Ramilda Newell not to follow decedent
Alfred Agresti's instructions that he be embalmed and viewed in an
open casket.  The record indicates that Coloni told the family that
one "could catch the AIDS virus from a deceased person much like
one could catch the common cold."

     Frank Agresti, who flew from California for his brother's
burial, was allowed to view the body only after agreeing to
Coloni's condition that he wear a mask.  Complainant Greg Agresti's
wife never viewed the body upon Coloni's insistence that such
exposure could cause her harm since she was then pregnant.

     Ruling that the funeral home violated state public
accommodation laws, Commissioner Rosa said the "complainants gave
up their desire to have an open casket as a result of respondent
Richard Coloni's underlying attitude, explanations and
misrepresentations, which exhibited prejudice towards HIV
'infected' clients."  She awarded compensatory damages based on
each sibling's mental anguish, frustration and public humiliation,
suffered, she said, as the result of Coloni's "unlawful
discrimination."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

CA CT. AFFIRMS ENHANCED SENTENCE FOR HIV SEX CRIME

     A California appellate court on June 1 affirmed a trial
court's 'enhancement' of a sexual offender's 72-year prison
sentence based on aggravating circumstances, including his claim
that he knew he was HIV-positive before committing his crime
(People v. Shoemake,  CA Ct. of Apps., 5th Dist., No. F017527).

     (The opinion is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Appellant Samuel Lee Shoemake opposed the handling of his Kern
County Superior Court case on a number of issues, claiming Judge
Gerald K. Davis violated the principle of corpus delicti because
prosecutors failed to independently prove that Shoemake was HIV-
positive prior to his July 1991 rape of a woman.  He said the case
against him and later the enhancement of his sentence were
insufficiently based solely on his own statements that he was HIV-
positive.

     The appeals court ruled that the corpus delicti claim did not
apply to such charges.  It said that the "proof utilized by the
state is the words of the defendant" and that "no constitutional or
statutory principle diminishes their force as evidence of the
truth."  The appeals court also rejected Shoemake's accompanying
claim that Judge Davis erred by allowing the removal of the only
African-American juror under the prosecution's exercise of a
peremptory challenge.

     The panel said much of Shoemake's appeal was void because he
failed to exercise a multiple hearsay objection at the trial level
on his claim that the AIDS-related allegations against him lacked
proof.  "For the first time on appeal, appellant challenges the
introduction of his statements, made prior to the commission of the
present offenses, that he had AIDS or was the carrier of HIV," said
the three-member appeals court in Fresno, CA.  "While he has
phrased his arguments avoiding the issue of waiver, the fact
remains that the position he advances on appeal comes down to
whether the statements were improperly admitted into evidence.  We
need not decide this question because appellant did not preserve
the issue for appeal by a timely and specific objection in the
trial court."

     The appeals court said the evidence presented before Judge
Davis was "legally sufficient" to support the enhancement of his
sentence.  His statements to two persons acknowledging that he
either had AIDS or was HIV positive, concluded the panel, "were
admitted into evidence without objection or limitation.  No
evidence was presented in rebuttal."

     Shoemake is represented by attorney Kyle Gee, who was
appointed by the appeals court.  The state is represented by state
attorneys Robert R. Anderson, Margaret Venturi and Mary Jane
Hamilton.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
AIDS LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
August 10, 1993

CCBC'S BRIEF IN BLOOD TEST DISPUTE WAS FILED NEUTRALLY

     The Council of Community Blood Banks' (CCBC) May 19 amicus
brief opposing a preliminary injunction to delay implementation of
a contract for its receipt of blood test kits, was filed neutrally
and did not support either of the two pharmaceutical firms
disputing the control of the market for such kits (Ortho Diagnostic
Systems v. Abbott Laboratories, SD NY, No. 93 CIV.2656-LBS).

     (The petition is available from Andrews Document Access
Service.  Call 1-800-345-1101 or 215-399-6600 from Pennsylvania.)

     Although the summary of the case in the most recent AIDS LR
correctly reported that CCBC opposed the injunction, it did not
indicate that the brief was submitted without comment on the merits
of either party's position.  In the brief, CCBC told U.S. District
Court Judge Leonard B. Sand that granting Ortho Disgnostic System's
(Ortho) request to halt the agreement between CCBC and Abbott
Laboratories would impose hardships on CCBC's member blood banks
and the general public.

     CCBC said a preliminary injunction would raise "uncertainties
that may have adverse consequences to recipients of blood
transfusions," because of confusion it would cause at blood banks
which have already switched from one blood test technology to
another.  "Every time a new test -- especially one with a new or
different technology -- is introduced into a blood center, standard
operating procedures must be written, equipment and reagents must
be ordered, technicians must be trained, software must be developed
and the entire complex system must be integrated and validated.
Each of these steps takes significant time and resources to assure
an error-free transition."

     Emphasizing that the amicus brief was filed only on behalf of
"CCBC, its members and the patients they serve," CCBC Executive
Director James MacPherson says his organization remains "absolutely
neutral with respect to Ortho's claims against Abbott and Abbott's
defense against those claims."

     The case is scheduled to go to trial on November 15.

     CCBC is represented by Steven Labensky and Karen Owens of
Lewis and Roca in Phoenix.  Ortho is counseled by Robert Heller,
Harold Weinberger and Michael Oberman of Kramer, Levin, Naftalis,
Nessen, Kamin & Frankel of New York City.  Jeffrey Weinberger,
Steven Perry and Glenn Pomerantz of Munger, Tolles & Olsen in Los
Angeles represents Abbott.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-4</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-116</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh14.html 205.156.212.5 19970115021859 text/html 147653
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:16:52 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:05 GMT
Content-length: 147463
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh14.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet <BR>
December 25, 1995 & January 1<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS REPORTS . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;"New" ACTG Moves Forward</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(654 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;John Carey Posthumously Receives Young Investigator Award</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(184 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>Disease Markers&nbsp;Increased Soluble CD14 Useful Marker in TB Patients</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(305 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Drug Development (Antiviral)&nbsp;Virus-Neutralizing RNAs Offer Potential as Antiviral Therapies</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1026 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>Education and Prevention&nbsp;Availability of Condoms in Quebec Secondary Schools a Priority</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(764 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Education and Prevention&nbsp;Youth Reaching Out to Youth</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(434 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Epidemiology (HIV)&nbsp;Study Reveals Alarming Prevalence of HIV in Young People</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(308 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Epidemiology (HIV)&nbsp;WHO Reports 18.5 Million Have HIV</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(432 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>Industry News (Blood Substitutes)&nbsp;Hemolink Phase II Trials to Begin in 1996</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(762 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Industry News (Clinical Studies) &nbsp;HGP-30 Study Announced</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(117 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Industry News (Clinical Trials)&nbsp;Results Announced for SnET2 To Treat Cancers</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(530 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>Industry News (Joint Venture) &nbsp;Phase I/II Clinical Trials with Protease Inhibitor for HIV Begins </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(446 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Industry News (Patents and Technology)&nbsp;Notice of Allowance of Russian Patent on HIV Technology Granted</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(151 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>Industry News (Thalidomide)&nbsp;Drug Available to AIDS Patients Under Expanded Access Provisions</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(431 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>Infection Control&nbsp;TB and AIDS Programs - Natural Partners or Not?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(781 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>Prophylaxis (TB)&nbsp;Isoniazid-Based Therapy Useful Despite Hepatotoxicity</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(700 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>Therapy&nbsp;Levofloxacin More Active than Ofloxacin in In Vitro Study</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(485 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>Transmission&nbsp;New Policy Cautions HIV Infected Women on Breastfeeding</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(136 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>Xenotransplantation&nbsp;Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>RESEARCH FROM CONFERENCES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Accuracy of Chest Radiograph Interpretation in the Diagnosis of Pneumocystis&nbsp;carinii Pneumonia, Bacterial Pneumonia, and Pulmonary Tuberculosis in HIV&nbsp;Positive Patients."  P.M.  Boiselle, I.  Tocino, R.J.  Hooley, A.S.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(261 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Esophageal Lymphoma and Viral 'Pseudolymphoma' in Patients with AIDS."  D.H.&nbsp;Frager, C.  Rodeo, B.J.  Perlman, D.  Kotler, B.  Fein and J.  Frager.  New&nbsp;York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(225 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Thoracic Neoplasms in AIDS:  Can We Tell Them Apart?."  H.K.  Pannu, J.F.&nbsp;Gruden and S.A.  Oldham.  Houston, Texas.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>Diagnostics (TB)&nbsp;"Effect of HIV Status on Chest CT Findings In Patients with Tuberculosis."&nbsp;L.B.  Haramati, E.R.  Jenny-Avital and D.D.  Alterman.  Bronx, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(105 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>Diagnostics (TB)&nbsp;"Musculoskeletal Tuberculosis:  MR Imaging Manifestations."  H.S.  Kang, J.&nbsp;Ahn, S.M.  Kim and J.W.  Ryoo.  Seoul, South Korea.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(119 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>Diagnostics (TB)&nbsp;"Sites of Tuberculous Involvement in AIDS Patients:  Correlation with Gallium&nbsp;Scans."  H.M.  Abdel-Dayem, S.Y.  Naddaf, B.  Mina, M.S.  Aziz, L.  DiFabrizio&nbsp;and J.S.  Kempf et al.  New York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(162 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>Disease Associations&nbsp;"AIDS Related Lymphoma:  Spinal Involvement."  Y.  Cordoliani, J.  Sarrazin,&nbsp;D.  Soulie, D.  Jeanbourquin, O.  Helie and G.  Cosnard.  Paris, France.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(146 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><LI>Immunology (TB)&nbsp;"Regulation of the Human Cellular Immune Response in Tuberculosis."  J.J.&nbsp;Ellner.  Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(367 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>Infection Control (TB)&nbsp;"Behavioral Factors in Tuberculosis Control."  E.  Sumartojo.  Division of&nbsp;Tuberculosis Elimination, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,&nbsp;Atlanta, Georgia.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(368 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>Therapy (Kaposi Sarcoma)&nbsp;"Radiation Therapy of the Oral Cavity and Oropharynx In Patients with AIDS&nbsp;Related Kaposi Sarcoma."  L.Z.  Nisce, M.  Coleman and T.P.  Kaulmann.  New&nbsp;York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(128 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>JOURNAL ARTICLE SUMMARIES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><LI>Dermatology&nbsp;Kerschmann, R.L.; Berger, T.G.; Weiss, L.M.; Herndier, B.G.; Abrahms, K.M.;&nbsp;Heon, V.; Schulze, K.; Kaplan, L.D.; Resnik, S.D.; Leboit, P.E.  "Cutaneous&nbsp;Presentations of Lymphoma in Human Immunodeficiency Virus Disease:</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(247 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><LI>HIV Vaccines&nbsp;Honda, M.; Matsuo, K.; Nakasone, T.; Okamoto, Y.; Yoshizaki, H.; Kitamura, K.;&nbsp;Sugiura, W.; Watanabe, K.; Fukushima, Y.; Haga, S.; Katsura, Y.; Tasaka, H.;&nbsp;Komuro, K.; Yamada, T.; Asano, T.; Yamazaki, A.; Yamazaki, S.  "Protective</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(316 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><LI>Hodgkin's Disease&nbsp;Siebert, J.D.; Ambinder, R.F.; Napoli, V.M.; Quintanillamartinez, L.; Banks,&nbsp;P.M.; Gulley, M.L.  "Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Associated Hodgkin's Disease&nbsp;Contains Latent, Not Replicative, Epstein-Barr Virus."  Human Pathology,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><LI>Immunotherapy&nbsp;Hasenkrug, K.J.; Brooks, D.M.; Chesebro, B.  "Passive Immunotherapy for&nbsp;Retroviral Disease:  Influence of Major Histocompatibility Complex Type and&nbsp;T-Cell Responsiveness."  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(260 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><LI>Knowledge, Attitudes and Behavior&nbsp;Steele, A.; Melby, V.  "Nurses' Knowledge and Beliefs about AIDS:  Comparing&nbsp;Nurses in Hospital, Community and Hospice Settings."  Journal of Advanced&nbsp;Nursing, November 1995;22(5):879-887.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(299 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><A HREF = "#36"><A HREF = "#36"><A HREF = "#36"><LI>Obstetrics&nbsp;Thorne, C.; Newell, M.L.; Dunn, D.; Peckham, C.  "The European Collaborative&nbsp;Study:  Clinical and Immunological Characteristics of HIV 1-Infected Pregnant&nbsp;Women."  British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, November</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(279 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#37"><A HREF = "#37"><A HREF = "#37"><A HREF = "#37"><LI>Ophthalmology&nbsp;Davis, J.L.; Serfass, M.S.; Lai, M.Y.; Trask, D.K.; Azen, S.P.L.  "Silicone&nbsp;Oil in Repair of Retinal Detachments Caused by Necrotizing Retinitis in HIV&nbsp;Infection."  Archives of Ophthalmology, November 1995;113(11):1401-1409.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(340 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#38"><A HREF = "#38"><A HREF = "#38"><A HREF = "#38"><LI>Peptide Vaccines&nbsp;Mitsuda, S.; Nakagawa, T.; Nakazato, H.; Ikai, A.  "Receptor-Linked Antigen&nbsp;Delivery System - Importance of Autologous Alpha 2-Macroglobulin in the&nbsp;Development of Peptide Vaccine."  Biochemical and Biophysical Research</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(255 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#39"><A HREF = "#39"><A HREF = "#39"><A HREF = "#39"><LI>Pharmacoeconomics&nbsp;Castelo, A.; Mathiasi, P.A.; Iunes, R.; Kritski, A.L.; Dalcolmo, M.; Demelo,&nbsp;F.F.; Drummond, M.  "Cost Effectiveness of Antituberculosis Interventions."&nbsp;Pharmacoeconomics, November 1995;8(5):385-399.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(379 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#40"><A HREF = "#40"><A HREF = "#40"><A HREF = "#40"><LI>Pneumocystis carinii&nbsp;Horner, R.D.; Bennett, C.L.; Rodriguez, D.; Weinstein, R.A.; Kessler, H.A.;&nbsp;Dickinson, G.M.; Johnson, J.L.; Cohn, S.E.; George, W.L.; Gilman, S.C.;&nbsp;Shapiro, M.F.  "Relationship Between Procedures and Health Insurance for</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(344 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#41"><A HREF = "#41"><A HREF = "#41"><A HREF = "#41"><LI>Seroprevalence&nbsp;Remis, R.S.; Eason, E.L.; Palmer, R.W.H.; Najjar, M.; Leclerc, P.; Lebel, F.;&nbsp;Fauvel, M.  "HIV Infection among Women Undergoing Abortion in Montreal.."&nbsp;Canadian Medical Association Journal, November 1, 1995;153(9):1271-1279.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(386 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#42"><A HREF = "#42"><A HREF = "#42"><A HREF = "#42"><LI>TB/HIV Coinfection&nbsp;Pozniak, A.L.; Macleod, G.A.; Ndlovu, D.; Ross, E.; Mahari, M.; Weinberg, J.&nbsp;"Clinical and Chest Radiographic Features of Tuberculosis Associated with&nbsp;Human Immunodeficiency Virus in Zimbabwe."  American Journal of Respiratory</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(196 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#43"><A HREF = "#43"><A HREF = "#43"><A HREF = "#43"><LI>Therapy (Hepatotoxicity)&nbsp;Vandenbrande, P.; Vansteenbergen, W.; Vervoort, G.; Demedts, M.  "Aging and&nbsp;Hepatotoxicity of Isoniazid and Rifampin in Pulmonary Tuberculosis."  American&nbsp;Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, November</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(275 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#44"><A HREF = "#44"><A HREF = "#44"><A HREF = "#44"><LI>Therapy (Hepatotoxicity)&nbsp;Ozick, L.A.; Jacob, L.; Comer, G.M.; Lee, T.P.; Benzvi, J.; Donelson, S.S.;&nbsp;Felton, C.P.  "Hepatotoxicity from Isoniazid and Rifampin in Inner-City AIDS&nbsp;Patients."  American Journal of Gastroenterology, November</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(231 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#45"><A HREF = "#45"><A HREF = "#45"><A HREF = "#45"><LI>Toxoplasma gondii&nbsp;Kasper, L.H.; Matsuura, T.; Khan, I.A.  "IL-7 Stimulates Protective Immunity&nbsp;in Mice Against the Intracellular Pathogen, Toxoplasma gondii."  Journal of&nbsp;Immunology, November 15, 1995;155(10):4798-4804.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(280 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#46"><A HREF = "#46"><A HREF = "#46"><A HREF = "#46"><LI>Virology&nbsp;Huang, Y.X.; Zhang, L.Q.; Ho, D.D.  "Biological Characterization of Nef in&nbsp;Long-Term Survivors of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 Infection."&nbsp;Journal of Virology, December 1995;69(12):8142-8146.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(270 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#47"><A HREF = "#47"><LI>MEETINGS REPORT&nbsp;*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1865 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
"New" ACTG Moves Forward


Can the main clinical trials group in the U.S.  shed its image as a dinosaur
too large and slow-moving to respond to new developments in AIDS therapies?

According to the chair of the group's Adult Executive Committee - University
of Colorado researcher Robert "Chip" Schooley - recent reorganization has
accomplished this objective.  Schooley made his remarks during the Twentieth
AIDS Clinical Trials Group Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington,
D.C.

The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) is the arm of the U.S.  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Division of AIDS (DAIDS)
responsible for testing new treatments for HIV disease and its complications.

But the group - particularly the division responsible for testing drugs in
adults - has been severely criticized for lacking central control and for
moving far too slowly to provide answers to pressing questions about AIDS
therapies.

DAIDS recently completed a top-to-bottom evaluation and reorganization of the
ACTG.  In a plenary address to the group's first general meeting since the
changes took effect, Schooley acknowledged that many of the criticisms were
valid, but also stressed the group's many achievements.

"We've been through a lot of self and external evaluation," Schooley said.
"But there are a lot of things right with this organization.  This is the
preeminent clinical organization in the world.  We have put together a
tremendous organization to deal with a disease we all are tired of."

Schooley noted that four years ago only one drug had been approved for the
treatment of primary HIV infection and that today, largely due to ACTG
efforts, there are five such drugs with a sixth on the way.

"This organization will play a major role in understanding how these drugs
work," he said.  "We have a tremendous opportunity to move along quickly."

Schooley noted that recent ACTG studies have defined a role for combination
therapy with the nucleoside analog didanosine (ddI) and for the use of the new
protease inhibitor saquinavir.

He promised that the ACTG would make increased use of new laboratory findings
"to tell us what we need to do."

The "new" ACTG will collaborate more closely with DAIDS, Schooley said.  But
most importantly, the ACTG will streamline and simplify the process by which
it generates clinical trial protocols.

"One of the things we were appropriately criticized for was behaving like
civil servants," Schooley said, referring to previous bureaucratic processes
that prevented the rapid testing of new treatments in a clinical setting.

The organization of the ACTG has been streamlined so that the adult section
has only three committees making research decisions.  These three Research
Agenda Committees (RACs) are the HIV Disease RAC, the Immunology RAC, and the
Opportunistic Disease RAC.  Committees that were once separate RACs - the
Pharmacology Committee, the Women's Health Committee, and the Patient Care
Committee - will now be established as standing resource committees within
each of the three main RACs.

There will be two major changes in how the ACTG functions:  there will be
centralized control of both resources and laboratories.

Resources will now be controlled directly by those planning and executing the
ACTG scientific agenda via a Scientific Agenda Steering Committee comprised of
the various committee chairs.

Laboratories previously operated independently of the research committees,
receiving their funds directly from DAIDS.

"Now scientific committees will directly control the labs," Schooley said.  "I
think this will work very well."

But the executive committee chair warned that the ACTG would continue to
change.

"Four years from now this will be a very different organization than now," he
said.  "The changes have been good, they have been enabling."

He called for the active participation of each investigator.

"Two thousand people thinking will get more done than just a few executive
committee members," Schooley said.

 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
John Carey Posthumously Receives Young Investigator Award


One of the nations leading AIDS caretakers is gone.

Recognized as an outstanding physician during his life, John Carey of Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, posthumously received the Young
Investigator Award of the AIDS Clinical Trials Group.

The award was made during the opening session of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases Twentieth AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington, D.C.

Carey's co-worker, Case Western researcher Michael Lederman, delivered a brief
eulogy.

"John was the finest physician I have ever known," Lederman said.

Dr.  Carey, 41, not only provided primary care to some 300 people with HIV
infection but also was a major investigator in ACTG clinical trials.  He was
author or co-author of numerous publications.

The award was given to Carey's mother.

"The one thing John should be remembered for is that he urged us to treat
patients as people, to allay their fears and to give them hope," she said.

The presentation was met with a prolonged standing ovation by the assembled
researchers.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG


Many institutions conducting AIDS clinical trials have been unable to find and
keep study participants.

A study of 28 institutions participating in U.S.  government-sponsored
clinical trials showed that 18 of the sites (64 percent) failed to meet their
patient accrual goals.

The study, conducted by Washington University researcher Michael Klebert and
colleagues, was presented at the Twentieth AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington, D.C.  The ACTG Patient Care
Committee, a resource committee of the ACTG executive committee, performed the
study.

"Adequate recruitment and retention are essential in conducting successful
clinical trials," Klebert said.

Of 35 participating ACTG sites queried anonymously, 28 participated in the
study.  Except that they tended to be located on the east coast,
nonparticipating sites were not significantly different in terms of size or
patient demographics from participating institutions.

Surprisingly, the study found that the number of recruitment strategies used
by a study site was not related to meeting recruitment and retention goals.

Strategies positively correlated with successful patient recruitment and
retention were provision of child care, education of patients, provision of
peer advocates for patients, and payment via cash or vouchers.  Provision of
support groups was negatively correlated with success.

More than half of the sites identified study design as a barrier to
recruitment.  Nearly 40 percent of the sites said that barriers to successful
recruitment were lack of outreach and cultural sensitivity.

The sites with the worst recruitment/retention problems tended not to combine
primary care with study-protocol visits.  But high proportions of minority
patients or high proportions of patients using intravenous drugs was not
associated with poor recruitment or retention.

The major barriers to patient retention were the use of unpopular or too many
drugs in the study, high frequency of visits, and the availability of
alternative drugs.

Based on the study findings, Klebert made several recommendations to improve
patient recruitment and retention:

*  Combine primary care and research visits.
*  Promote a strong relationship between the study nurse and patients.
*  Provide transportation to the study site.
*  Ask patients about factors that might interfere with their participation.
*  Design studies to address retention problems.
*  Study identified problem sites in detail.
 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Disease Markers
Increased Soluble CD14 Useful Marker in TB Patients


Increased levels of soluble CD14 are present in bronchoalveolar lavage
supernatant of pulmonary tuberculosis patients.

CD14 was first identified as a marker of cells derived from the
monocyte/macrophage lineage, although it was later found on other cells like
neutrophils and B lymphocytes.  The cell surface glycoprotein serves as a
cellular receptor for complexes of lipopolysaccharide with
lipopolysaccharide-binding protein.

Soluble CD14 (sCD14) is present in normal plasma and is found increased in
serum of patients with septicemia, polytrauma, and sarcoidosis.  In pulmonary
sarcoidosis, increased levels of soluble CD14 have been detected in serum and
in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.  In this study researcher Gerhard Hoheisel
and colleagues attempted to determine whether increased levels of CD14 are
also found in pulmonary tuberculosis ("Increased Soluble CD14 Levels in
Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid in Primary TB," Chest, December
1995;108:1614-1616).

Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed in 12 patients with active but untreated
pulmonary tuberculosis and 12 healthy persons.  Cytologic and immunologic
characteristics were determined.  sCD14 was measured by a sandwich
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

"The level of soluble CD14 in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis was
increased compared with controls (mean +/- 34.4 +/- ng/mL versus 11.5 +/- 22
ng/mL)," Hoheisel et al.  wrote.

"No correlation was found between sCD14 levels and bronchoalveolar lavage
supernatant of pulmonary tuberculosis patients.  We conclude that similar to
patients with sarcoidosis, increased BAL fluid levels of sCD14 are found in
patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis compared with controls.  Moreover,
this finding might signal a similar immunopathogenetic process contributing to
granuloma formation in both diseases.  Further studies of respective cell
surface markers and endogenous cytokine production seem necessary to determine
the significance and clinical relevance of this finding."

The corresponding author for this study is Gerhard Hoheisel, Department of
Pneumology, Ruhrlandklink, Tuschener Weg 40, D-45239.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Drug Development (Antiviral)
Virus-Neutralizing RNAs Offer Potential as Antiviral Therapies


An in vitro selection process of RNA analogs derived from infectious viral
particles turns up elements with antiviral activity.

Current drug development techniques are dependent on the discovery of useful
agents.  Compounds with antibacterial or antiviral activity are often found
through the empirical screening of synthetic and natural compounds or the
logical design of a drug based on structures of viral and cellular proteins.
Unfortunately, empirical screening is tedious and inefficient, and logical
drug design, although promising, has not produced an abundance of successful
compounds.

Weihua Pan et al.  extended a selection-amplification procedure, previously
used to isolate RNA and DNA molecules, to target an intact virus in hopes of
discovering RNA analogs that could be developed as antiviral drugs ("Isolation
of Virus-Neutralizing RNAs from a Large Pool of Random Sequences," Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, December 5, 1995;92(25):11509-13).

"The isolation of RNAs and RNA analogs that are effective against diverse
viral strains will be particularly necessary for inhibiting viruses such as
HIV, which has a high mutation rate and readily develops drug-resistant
strains," stated Pan et al.  "Such selection is possible and practical because
a very large structurally diverse library is used and the selection is a rapid
process."

The authors noted that there is great potential to select for molecules that
bind defined targets with high affinity and specificity due to the structural
complexity of a combinatorial sequence library of single-stranded RNA
oligonucleotides.  Due to technological advances, selected RNA molecules can
be amplified and subjected to further selection.  Multiple cycles of selection
and amplification can lead to the isolation of the best target-binding RNA
molecules from the library.

Among the family of Retroviradae (which includes HIV), the rous sarcoma virus
(RSV) has been extensively studied.  All Retroviridae viruses are envelope
viruses which use surface glycoproteins to bind to a specific receptor on a
susceptible cell and for fusion with the cellular membrane of the host.

As a model, the authors chose to target intact RSV in order to isolate the RNA
molecules and the nuclease-resistant RNA analogs that specifically bind and
neutralize this virus.

RSV was used to demonstrate that antiviral RNA and RNA analogs could be
systematically and effectively isolated from a large pool of random sequences
without prior knowledge of the structures of the viral proteins.  First, they
used intact viral particles to select from the sequence pool the RNAs and RNA
analogs that bind specifically to the virus.  Then they screened the selected
molecules for the ability to neutralize the virus.

"We reason that by binding to virus, some of the selected RNAs and RNA analogs
may change the structures of viral surface proteins so that these proteins can
no longer function in steps critical for viral infection, such as viral
attachment and virus-cell membrane fusion," stated Pan et al.  "Alternatively,
some of the structural changes may trigger pathways to inhibit the steps which
normally occur after virus internalization, such as the uncoating and the
expression of the virus genome."

J.A.  Levy et al.  (Am.  Soc.  Microbiol., 1994;153-158) and N.J.  Dimmock et
al.  (Curr.  Top.  Microbiol.  Immunol., 1992;183:1-149) suggested the
possibilities in both of these avenues in some of their earlier work.

Using infectious viral particles, RNA and ribonuclease-resistant RAN analogs
that bound and neutralized RSV were isolated from a large pool of random
sequences by multiple cycles of in vitro selection.  Because RSV imposes
permeation problems, the selected RNAs were targeted to inhibit RSV infection
by binding to the virus surface, and not by entering the virus itself.

The sequences chosen completely neutralized the virus at concentrations of
0.16 (micro)M.  Of the 19 selected sequences isolated to be concentrated, five
of them inhibited RSV infection after cloning.  These five RNA and RNA analogs
neutralized the RSV by interacting with the virus itself.  They did not
adversely affect the host cells used in the in vitro experiments.

A potential problem with developing RNA as a therapeutic agent is the rapid
degradation of unmodified RNA by ribonucleases in vivo, noted the authors.
They suggested solving this problem by incorporating modified nucleotides into
the RNA chain.

The strain of RSV used during the experiments was the Prague A.  After testing
the selected RNAs against a different strain, the Prague C, the authors found
that the RNA analogs inhibited infection of this strain also, although at
concentrations 15-20 times higher.

Future methods of RNA selection could be performed by alternating between
several strains of virus during the different cycles of selection to
specifically isolate the RNAs and RNA analogs that could bind to several
diverse strains of the virus.  This could be particularly helpful when it
comes to treating viruses with a history of multiple mutations such as HIV,
noted the authors.

Several advantages were noted by the authors for the use of intact biological
entities (infectious virus particles) instead of viral proteins:

* Selection by intact viral particles does not require the full understanding
of all the ways that a virus can infect its host.  If selection is made by an
isolated viral protein, the selection is limited to only the cases in which
proteins responsible for viral infection have been identified and isolated.

* It avoids the problem of structural differences in purified proteins.
Proteins in their purified form may not interact with the protein complexed on
a virion.

* Selection using intact virus particles may lead to the identification of
viral components previously unknown.

"The success of isolating numerous anti-RSV RNAs and RNA analogs from a large
pool of random sequences immediately suggests the potential application of
this approach to isolate RNA and nuclease-resistant RNA analogs against other
viruses such as HIV," concluded Pan et al.

This research was supported by Pennsylvania State University Start-up funds;
National Institutes of Health grant CA47482; American Cancer Society grant
FRA427; and funds from the Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine.

The corresponding author for this study is Jin-Feng Wang, Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State University College of
Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033, USA.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Education and Prevention
Availability of Condoms in Quebec Secondary Schools a Priority


The health and welfare policy of the Quebec Health and Social Services
Ministry, Canada, stipulates that preventive measures must be strengthened in
order to reduce the incidence of HIV and other STDs.

According to the policy, one priority activity for the health and social
services network is to make condoms accessible to young people in schools.

In order to assess the effectiveness of measures taken to make condoms
accessible in schools, a survey was carried out in May 1994 in 164 Quebec
health centers (CLSCs).  The CLSC survey showed that of 478 Quebec secondary
schools, 192 (40.2 percent) did not make condoms available; 20 schools (4.4
percent) were in the process of doing so and 265 (55.4 percent) did provide
them.

These figures paint a rather positive picture, compared to the United States,
where in 1992 only 8 percent of schools were reported to have adopted a condom
distribution program.  However, the program's effectiveness is still somewhat
limited because of the main method used to distribute the condoms.

The results show that of the 265 schools distributing condoms, 237 (89.4
percent) did so mainly through their health services.  Automatic distributors
were used in 88 (33.2 percent) schools; 12 schools made them available through
teaching staff; and 13 (4.9 percent) used peer-group projects.

Access to health services has certain limits:  the lack of anonymity and
restricted opening hours.  In addition, some health services do distribute
condoms, but only unofficially.  Ensuring access to condoms through the health
services has the advantage of creating a link between students and healthcare
workers, and encourages educational activity.  However, health services staff
are not always present in many schools; they may only be there a few days a
week.  Moreover, some students say they are intimidated and prefer a more
impersonal approach.

Strides have been taken towards making condoms more accessible in schools than
was the case just a few years ago:  88 schools now provide condom distributors
compared to about 40 in 1992.  This method provides real accessibility, since
hours of access are unlimited and it is far more anonymous than the health
services approach.  Some data collected indicate that provision of condom
machines results from a conscious decision by the school authorities, whereas
distribution by health services may be done without official approval.

The CLSC survey shows that in 192 Quebec schools, the main sources of
reluctance to make condoms available were school principals (90 CLSCs),
followed by parents (86 CLSCs), teaching staff (75 CLSCs), school boards (67
CLSCs) and guidance counselors (62 CLSCs).  Pupils are much less frequently
mentioned as being reluctant (30 CLSCs).

As in an American study, school principals also perceive parents to be an
obstacle to introducing sex education.  However, that perception by CLSCs or
school principals is contradicted by several surveys which have shown a high
rate of acceptance for making condoms available to young people.

In April 1991 the central parents' committee of the Montreal Catholic School
Board, Quebec, Canada, carried out a survey of their school committees.  It
showed that 68.8 percent of respondents were in favor of installing condom
distribution machines in secondary schools.  The survey also revealed that
32.5 percent of parents felt that they were the ones who should decide whether
or not the condom distributors should be installed.

When one seeks to understand why there is reluctance to making condoms
available, the factor most often mentioned by CLSCs (40 percent of cases) is
the fear of encouraging young people to have sexual relations.  Next is the
failure to see any need to make condoms available (30.2 percent); then other
means of access because of proximity to a convenience store, pharmacy or CLSC
(27.6 percent) and, finally, a fear of vandalism against distribution machines
(13.6 percent).

The preliminary results of a study conducted by Joanne Otis of the Universite
du Quebec a Montreal indicate that the number of young people who have sexual
relations is no higher in schools which have distributors than in those which
do not.  These results seem to contradict the hypothesis that the presence of
condom distributors would encourage sexual activity.

A recent Swiss study shows that advertising campaigns to promote condom use
have not increased the number of young people having sexual relations nor the
number of partners they have, but rather have increased the use of condoms by
adolescent boys and girls.  These results were recently corroborated by the
World Health Organization (WHO), which analyzed 90 studies to determine the
impact of sex education on school children.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Education and Prevention
Youth Reaching Out to Youth


The following press release was received from Africans in Partnership Against
AIDS, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Africans in Partnership Against AIDS (APAA) is a community-based organization
formed by members of the African community.  APAA provides HIV/AIDS education
in a culturally appropriate manner and supportive environment for people
living with HIV/AIDS (PHAs), their partners, lovers, families and friends.

We believe in the health and dignity of people living with HIV/AIDS and
recognize the difficulties people face when they are infected with HIV.

A Youth Committee, composed entirely of youth between the ages of 14 and 24,
was set up in September 1994.  Adults are not invited to their meetings, but
can be consulted on issues which need clarification or advice.  The youths
want their own space within the agency to address their issues without
interference.

The Youth Outreach Coordinator initiates her outreach to youth with a letter
to parents, requesting the participation of their children.  The coordinator
attends activities at youth groups, cultural gatherings, churches and mosques
to promote the program.

The Youth Committee works closely with other youth agencies and AIDS service
organizations in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, drawing on a wealth of experience
and expertise on HIV/AIDS and African youth.

The youth have found that in order to address HIV/AIDS effectively, other
factors must be considered.  The most frequently discussed topics include:

* Parent/youth relationships - youth want parents to acknowledge that their
children live in Canadian society and to be open towards them;

* Health issues - including sexuality, sexually transmitted diseases, safer
sex, pregnancy and drugs;

* Employment counselling - youths want skills to make wise choices for their
future employment;

* Networking - to meet youth from other communities to learn how they cope
with HIV/AIDS;

* People living with HIV/AIDS (PHAs) - youth want to relate compassionately to
PHAs, families and friends.

On August 5, 1995, eight of APAA's youths participated in the Caribana Parade
to promote safer sex messages.  They designed envelopes containing condoms,
condom manuals, referral lists for youth in Toronto, and matchboxes containing
condoms and safer sex messages drawn from current rap music.  Over 10,000
condoms were distributed at that time.

These are some of the safer sex slogans used in the outreach work:

* Using a condom makes a man last longer!!

* Sex ain't nothin' to die for ...

* Enter a storm without a raincoat, you're bound to get wet!

* When a man uses a condom, it shows he respects me as a woman.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Epidemiology (HIV)
Study Reveals Alarming Prevalence of HIV in Young People


One in every 92 men in the age group of 27 through 39 may be infected with
HIV, according to the most precise estimates yet of the pandemic's toll.

Minorities are far and away the hardest hit, with one of every 33 young
African American men estimated to be infected in 1993.  The latest and most
accurate data available is from 1993 and was published in a report in the
December 8, 1995, issue of the journal Science.

Study author, Philip Rosenberg, of the U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI)
forecasts a bleak future if this trend continues, suggesting that "the threat
of AIDS may become a rite of passage" for young people.  This latest report
reaffirms the government's warning that AIDS is threatening more and more
young people.

In January 1995, the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
announced that AIDS in 1993 became the number one killer for people in the age
group from 25 through 44.

Rosenberg's study counters the optimism expressed in the government's recent
announcement that AIDS appears to have leveled off, with 40,000 new infections
every year balanced by 40,000 new deaths.  This apparent plateau is really a
disguise for the increased risk facing young Americans.

It is a fact that only young Caucasian men have seen a drop in new infections
in recent years, while the risk has dramatically increased for young
minorities and women.

Cornelius Baker of the National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA)
underscored the meaning of the most recent report on prevalence of HIV, when
he stated that, "I don't think most people really get it, that (infection) is
a potential for them.  ...  We have to be clear:  Right now ...  if you get
HIV in your twenties, you will die by around forty years old."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Epidemiology (HIV)
WHO Reports 18.5 Million Have HIV


An estimated 18.5 million people worldwide are infected with HIV - a sharply
higher number attributed to better reporting rather a surge in the epidemic,
the United Nations (U.N.)  health agency said.

About six million people are thought to have developed AIDS since the start of
the epidemic in the late 1970s, the World Health Organization (WHO) said.  Of
these, 4.5 million have died.

An estimated 6,000 people are infected each day with HIV; of the 18.5 million
already infected, 1.5 million are children, the agency said.

WHO previously estimated that 1 million children and between 13 million and 15
million adults are infected with HIV and a total of 4.5 million people had
developed the disease.

The agency said the new figures reflected an improvement in estimating
techniques, better HIV prevalence studies and other research, rather than a
sudden jump in new infections.

Two-thirds of the estimated HIV cases and three-quarters of advanced AIDS
cases, are in sub-Saharan Africa, WHO said.

India has the most HIV carriers - an estimated 1.75 million of its one billion
people.  Thailand - another country where experts fear an explosion in cases -
has 700,000 HIV carriers.

The highest proportional HIV rate was in Botswana, with about 18 percent of
sexually active adults infected.  An estimated 17 percent of adults aged 15-49
had the virus in Zambia and Zimbabwe and 15 percent in Uganda.

In the Americas, Haiti had the highest proportion of HIV carriers, at 4.4
percent.  The Bahamas followed at 3.9 percent, with Barbados at 2.8 percent.
In the United States, where an estimated 700,000 people were HIV positive at
the end of 1994, the infection rate was 0.5 percent.

In Europe, Spain had the highest rate of HIV infections, with 0.58 percent of
sexually active adults, followed by Switzerland with 0.2 percent, WHO said.
WHO is forced to rely on estimates to gauge the spread of HIV and AIDS because
actual cases reported by governments give little idea of the true picture,
especially in Africa.

North Korea reports no cases of HIV.

Although WHO estimated the true number of AIDS cases at six million, the
actual number reported by governments was 1.3 million.  The United States
accounted for 39 percent of all the reported cases but only 7 percent of the
estimated cases.

The figures for HIV infections are for the end of 1994, while the AIDS figures
include cases that developed in 1995.  A WHO official said there was a slight
overlap in the two categories.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Blood Substitutes)
Hemolink Phase II Trials to Begin in 1996


A red blood cell substitute will go into Phase II clinical trials early in
1996 and, if all goes well, could be available on the market by 1999.

The announcement was made at the 1995 International Chemical Congress of
Pacific Basin Societies, held in Honolulu, Hawaii, December 17-22, 1995.

The blood substitute, Hemolink, manufactured by Hemosol, is made of chemically
modified hemoglobin, says Dr.  Gord Adamson, a company scientist.  Hemolink is
derived from screened and tested blood that is outdated because it has been
stored for more than six weeks.

Hemosol takes the expired blood, separates out the red blood cells and
extracts the hemoglobin.  That's more complicated than it sounds.  "A red cell
is not just a package of clean hemoglobin," Adamson says.  "It contains about
90 different proteins."  The company heat-treats the hemoglobin to destroy any
contaminating viruses that may have eluded the screening process conducted by
collection agencies.  Other remaining proteins are then removed by a novel
displacement chromatographic process.

The process strips away blood-group antigens and other proteins, so Hemolink
can be used by all patients regardless of blood type.  And the purification
steps make the likelihood of transmission of diseases such as HIV and
hepatitis "virtually" nil, according to Adamson.

"The reason we say 'virtually,"' he notes, "is because scientifically it is
impossible to prove total absence of a virus," but he is very confident that
Hemolink would pose no threat to users in terms of blood-borne diseases.  In
addition, the blood from which Hemolink is derived is already approved for
use; the company does not accept contaminated units.

After purification, the free hemoglobin is cross-linked with oxidized
raffinose, a sugar molecule.  This "improves the ability of the free
hemoglobin to deliver oxygen to tissue, stabilizes each hemoglobin molecule
and links together several such molecules so that they are large enough to
circulate for extended periods," Adamson says.

Human trials with Hemolink show the blood substitute circulates for a couple
of days in the blood stream - compared with a month or more for transfused red
cells - and is then excreted, says Adamson.  But animal trials show this is
long enough to counteract oxygen shortages during acute blood loss, say, in an
accident or an operation.  In fact, these trials showed that animals treated
with Hemolink did just as well as those treated with transfusions of the
animals' own blood.

Hemosol is currently working with two versions of Hemolink, one a fluid stored
in a refrigerator and one frozen.  Either formulation would be suitable for
surgical applications.  A long-term goal is to develop a freeze-dried
formulation.  It would be light enough to ship to remote depots - for use in
disasters or military conflicts, for example - and it could be reconstituted
with sterile water on-site.

Adamson believes the cost for Hemolink would be competitive, noting that there
are significant administrative costs associated with the existing blood
collection and distribution system.  These include the storage, transport,
disposal and other labor and record-keeping activities that a successful blood
substitute would significantly reduce.  Also, since no cross-matching would be
required, these costs would be saved.

Hemolink also would avoid some of the costly problems associated with blood
transfusions - such as transmission of disease (ranging from HIV or hepatitis
to a bacterial infection), or mismatched blood (where the patient might have a
reaction to antigens in the donor's blood that could be mild, such as a fever,
or severe, resulting in death), or the delays in surgery brought about by
blood shortages.

Hemosol will not rely just on Hemolink to launch itself in this market.  The
company is collaborating with Ronald Kluger, a chemistry professor with the
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, to further extend cross-linking
technologies for second-generation products.

Adamson says the work also is aimed at chemically modifying hemoglobin so it
can serve as a carrier for drug molecules.  Tissues that can accumulate and
metabolize protein-drug conjugates are potential targets.  An example is a
solid tumor.  Adamson says this would reduce many of the side-effects of
anti-tumor agents.

A large-scale conversion from red cells to blood substitutes is unrealistic,
particularly in the short term, Adamson says.  But assuming they win approval,
blood substitutes could ultimately bring in big money.  Industry estimates of
the potential market for blood substitutes (and newer applications where red
cells can't be used) by the year 2002 are around 1.5 million units (worth
US$500 million) in North America, and over three million units worldwide,
Hemosol says.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Clinical Studies) 
HGP-30 Study Announced


Cel-Sci Corporation, Alexandria, Virginia, announced the start of a clinical
study with the HGP-30 HIV immunogen.  The study is being conducted at the
clinic of AIDS Research Alliance, West Hollywood, California.

The Phase I trial with HGP-30 will evaluate safety and HIV-1 directed immune
responses in HIV infected individuals.  The trial will include 22 HIV patients
with CD4 counts between 50 and 600.

Each patient will receive three immunizations of the HGP-30 HIV immunogen
during the course of six months.  Previous clinical Phase I studies with
HGP-30 in 38 non-infected volunteers have already been successfully concluded
in the United Kingdom and California.

For additional information contact:  Geert Kersten, Cel-Sci Corporation,
703-549-5293.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Clinical Trials)
Results Announced for SnET2 To Treat Cancers


PDT Inc.  (PDTI), Santa Barbara, California, announced preliminary Phase I/II
clinical results for its first drug, tin ethyl etiopurpurin (SnET2), for the
treatment of certain skin cancers and AIDS related Kaposi sarcoma (KS).

At a financial conference in New York, New York, Gary S.  Kledzik, Ph.D.,
chairman and chief executive officer, stated:  "In the Phase I/II clinical
trials, photodynamic therapy with SnET2 eliminated or reduced a substantial
number of tumors and demonstrated an excellent safety profile.

"These preliminary results indicate SnET2 is a promising drug for treating
solid tumors, although Phase III studies are needed to provide definitive
data.  Final preparations are under way with our corporate partner, Pharmacia
& Upjohn, for Phase III trials in the U.S.  and Europe."

Photodynamic therapy uses drugs which are activated by light to selectively
destroy diseased cells, such as cancer, with minimal effects on normal
tissues.  The company's first clinical studies with SnET2 involved a combined
Phase I/II study for treatment of certain skin cancers, and a second combined
study for treatment of AIDS related KS.  These studies assessed the safety of
the drug and evaluated the drug and light doses needed to achieve tumor
responses.

The Phase I/II skin cancer study included basal cell carcinomas (skin cancers
caused primarily by sun exposure), basal cell nevus syndrome (a genetic
disease which causes multiple, recurrent basal cell carcinomas), and
metastatic adenocarcinomas (cancers which originate in glands, such as breast
cancer, and in this study have metastasized or spread to the skin).

This skin-cancer study included a total of 46 patients and 418 tumors.  In
Phase I, combinations of drug and light doses were investigated.  The Phase II
portion was conducted at the anticipated optimal drug/light dose.

Evaluable tumor responses were as follows:  100 percent of the basal cell
carcinomas had complete responses (no visible or palpable evidence of tumor
remained).  In basal cell nevus syndrome patients, 95 percent of tumors
responded.  Of the responding tumors, 86 percent were complete responses and
14 percent were partial responses (reduced by 50 percent or more in size).

In metastatic adenocarcinoma patients, 100 percent of tumors responded; 96
percent were complete responses and 4 percent were partial.  This Phase I/II
KS study involved an additional 45 patients with a total of 404 tumors.

Phase I of this study investigated drug and light combinations.  Phase II
studies were conducted using the anticipated optimal drug dose and two
selected light doses.  At the higher light dose, 63 percent of the evaluable
tumors responded.  60 percent of the responding tumors were complete responses
and 40 percent were partial.

The safety of SnET2 was also investigated during these clinical trials.  Side
effects were minimal.  The most common side effect was mild, transient skin
sun sensitivity, which occurred in a small percentage of patients and did not
require treatment.  No clinically significant abnormal trends were noted in
the laboratory parameters.

The company emphasized that these data are interim and that final analyses
have not been concluded.  The primary goal of Phase I/II clinical trials is to
assess safety and dosing parameters.  Phase III studies are required to
determine efficacy.






<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Joint Venture) 
Phase I/II Clinical Trials with Protease Inhibitor for HIV Begins 


Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, announced that its
partner Glaxo Wellcome has started Phase I/II clinical trials with VX-478
(141W94), a orally administered protease inhibitor designed for the treatment
of HIV and AIDS.

The multi-center study is being conducted at sites in the United States and
Europe.  This study is part of an international clinical development program
for VX-478 being undertaken by Glaxo Wellcome, Kissei Pharmaceutical Co.,
Ltd., Matsumoto-City, Japan, and Vertex.

The Phase I/II trial announced is a dose-ranging study designed to test the
antiviral efficacy, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of VX-478 during four
weeks of drug administration in HIV positive individuals.  The trial will
initially investigate three dose levels:  300 mg twice daily; 300 mg three
times daily and 450 mg twice daily.

Higher doses may be explored based on the tolerability of VX-478 at the
initial doses.  VX-478 has been shown to be well-tolerated in Phase I clinical
studies which evaluated single doses up to 1200 mg.  To assess the anti-HIV
activity of VX-478 at each dose level, the study will monitor CD4 counts and
the viral load of the study participants.

The data from this trial will be used by Glaxo Wellcome and Kissei to design
advanced trials to assess the safety and anti-HIV efficacy of VX-478 alone and
in combination with reverse transcriptase inhibitors.

"This Phase I/II trial builds on the strong tolerability, pharmacokinetics and
bioavailability data generated for VX-478 in the Phase I trial completed
earlier [in 1995]," commented Dr.  Joshua Boger, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Vertex.  "This trial marks the beginning of an accelerated effort
to move VX-478 through clinical development."

In July 1995, Glaxo Wellcome reported data from a Phase I trial of VX-478.  In
this study, VX-478 was well-tolerated and displayed excellent pharmacokinetics
at the single doses tested, 150 mg, 300 mg, 600 mg, 900 mg and 1200 mg.

The amount of VX-478 detected in the blood was directly proportional to the
doses administered.  At eight hours following administration, the level of
VX-478 detected in the bloodstream for each of the doses was well above the
IC[90], the concentration of drug that eliminates 90 percent of HIV
replication in vitro.  The half-life of the compound ranged from approximately
seven to ten hours, and oral bioavailability was calculated at greater than 70
percent.

HIV protease, a viral enzyme required by the virus for replication, is widely
recognized as a promising therapeutic target for treatment of HIV infection
and AIDS.  The HIV protease is an alternative target to reverse transcriptase,
the viral enzyme targeted by drugs such as Retrovir (AZT), Videx (ddI), Hivid
(ddC) and Epivir (3TC).





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Patents and Technology)
Notice of Allowance of Russian Patent on HIV Technology Granted


The Immune Response Corporation, Carlsbad, California, announced that it has
received a notice of allowance from the European Patent Office and a patent
from the Russian Patent Office regarding its core HIV technology.

These patents, issued to inventors Jonas Salk, M.D.  and Dennis J.  Carlo
Ph.D., have been licensed to the company and cover the Immune Response
Corporation's lead therapy, a treatment for HIV infection.  The company has
previously received patents covering this HIV technology from the U.S., Japan
and Australia, and has additional international patent applications pending.

These patents on Immune Response's HIV technology complement the company's
patents in the autoimmune disease and gene therapy programs.  The company's
autoimmune disease technology has led to Phase II clinical trials in
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis.  In addition, Immune Response intends to
begin Phase I gene therapy trials utilizing the company's patented gene
delivery technology by year-end 1996.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Thalidomide)
Drug Available to AIDS Patients Under Expanded Access Provisions


Celgene Corporation, Warren, New Jersey, reports it has launched a U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved program for expanded access to its
thalidomide drug Synovir for AIDS patients suffering from cachexia, a severe
weight loss condition.

Up to now, the drug has been available to the AIDS community only through
unregulated procurement from unknown sources.

Permission to dispense the drug legally to physicians treating AIDS patients
was granted recently by the FDA and was followed in October 1995 by FDA
approval of a request by Celgene to recover costs for supplying the drug and
related clinical expenses.  Both FDA actions are considered unusual for an
experimental compound still in clinical trials.

Celgene said it has begun sending official documents to the first of hundreds
of physicians who have expressed interest in entering patients in the open
label compassionate use protocol.

Under provisions agreed to with the FDA, interested physicians must receive
permission from their affiliated hospitals to enroll patients in the study.
Celgene will then dispense the drug to the physicians.  It is estimated that
roughly 100,000 US AIDS patients suffer from severe weight loss.

Celgene said the cost of Synovir will be about $550 for a 12-week supply.  By
comparison, recombinant human growth hormone, which is available to AIDS
patients under a treatment investigational new drug (IND), is currently priced
at approximately $11,000 for a 12-week supply, according to industry sources.
Synovir's price was established under FDA guidelines and enables Celgene to
recover costs of manufacture, R&D and handling of the expanded access program.

A portion of the Synovir distributed will be provided free of charge to
economically-disenfranchised patients.

The protocol for the expanded access trial of Synovir is complementary to
Celgene's placebo-controlled HIV wasting trial and provides patients who fail
to meet admission criteria of that study access to the drug.

The broad entry criteria, coupled with greater physician access, substantially
increases the availability of Synovir to patients who may benefit from the
therapy, Celgene said.

The expanded access program is open to patients suffering from AIDS related
weight loss including those with coincident opportunistic infections or
malignancies and also to those who have previously failed to respond to other
therapies aimed at treating HIV wasting.  More severely ill patients may
receive Synovir via a salvage arm of the trial.

Weight gain is the primary endpoint.  Patients can continue the therapy after
the initial 12-week treatment period, although informed consent will be
required every six months.

For additional information contact:  Richard G.  Wright, Celgene,
908-271-4119.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Infection Control
TB and AIDS Programs - Natural Partners or Not?


Can tuberculosis and AIDS prevention and treatment programs be successfully
combined?

The question was debated during a tuberculosis (TB) conference in Paris with
researchers expressing differing views.

D.A.  Enarson of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease
(IUATLD) argued that tuberculosis and AIDS prevention services are less than
compatible, because they target different groups.

"Tuberculosis prevention is a medical services related activity whereas HIV
prevention is a general population activity," Enarson noted.

"Because of the difference in the point of implementation of the two programs,
attempts to combine them are difficult."

Enarson made the remarks at the 1995 annual meeting of the IUATLD Conference
on Global Lung Health, held in Paris, France.

Enarson noted that while the goal of TB and HIV prevention programs is the
same - to prevent infections - the focus must be different.

"In the case of tuberculosis, prevention is based on a strategy of case
management in which infectious cases are found and treated, thereby preventing
transmission from the source (the sick patient)," Enarson noted in an abstract
presented at the conference.  "This is the only means of primary prevention.
Persons with the infection who are not sick almost never transmit the
infection to others.  With HIV infection, transmission occurs from an infected
person who usually has no clinical evidence of the infection.

"Prevention of transmission of this infection is, in general, based on general
health education aimed at behavior modification, Thus, the point of
implementation of the two programs is quite different:  for HIV, the point of
implementation must be the general population of subsets of it."

R.  O'Brien of the World Health Organization's Global Tuberculosis Program
countered that collaboration between AIDS and tuberculosis programs is
essential if services for already-infected persons are to be efficiently
implement.

"Isoniazid preventive therapy for co-infected persons may be highly effective,
but little work on its programmatic application has been undertaken," O'Brien
noted.  "Testing of TB patients for HIV may provide for better patient care
and help reduce HIV transmission, but voluntary testing with counselling is
not widely available."

O'Brien noted that virtually no home-based care programs for AIDS patients
with TB exist, even though these programs may help alleviate the burden on TB
programs and prevent further TB transmission in households.

O'Brien also found efforts to control nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis
to be lacking.

"AIDS and TB programs have unique expertise and orientations which together
can address the problems," he wrote in an abstract presented to the IUATLD
meeting.

"Unfortunately, until now these factors have been used as excuses for working
separately rather than for seeking fruitful collaboration.  However, TB is now
recognized as the most important opportunistic infection and cause of death in
HIV infected persons worldwide.  TB and HIV/AIDS programs can no longer be
permitted to function in isolation and must collaborate to improve care and
preventive services for those suffering from this 'deadly duo'."

The World Health Organization's E.  van Praag agreed that home-care programs
for people with AIDS offer unique opportunities to control tuberculosis in
developing areas.

"Over the last few years initiatives to set up community-based or home care
programs for people and families living with HIV/AIDS have mushroomed
rapidly," van Praag wrote in an abstract of a presentation to the IUATLD
conference.  "In countries heavily affected by HIV/AIDS, between 50-100
different home care programs can be identified (Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe,
Thailand).  These initiatives are a response to needs felt by HIV affected
families, communities and health staff in environments where hospitals can
scarcely cope and economic survival and social status of those families have
seriously deteriorated, due to AIDS.

"More than half of the people with HIV related illness will develop
tuberculosis.  Early recognition of tuberculosis and chances to complete
treatment are again hampered by limited collaboration within various health
care programs and by AIDS specific issues such as recurrent illnesses and
reduced income to afford frequent return visits.  Opportunities exist within
home care programs where peripheral health and social staff are in close
contact with patients and family care givers to early recognize TB disease
among HIV infected and affected family members.  Home care staff could provide
drugs, supervise DOT and educate families and communities about HIV and TB
prevention and care.  Projects in Ghana, Zimbabwe and South Africa have
already implemented joint TB and AIDS home care programs."

Researcher D.A.  Enarson is from the IUATLD, Paris, France.  R.  O'Brien and
E.  van Praag are from the Global Tuberculosis Program and the Global Program
on AIDS, World Health Organization, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Prophylaxis (TB)
Isoniazid-Based Therapy Useful Despite Hepatotoxicity


Prophylactic isoniazid therapy is beneficial to all patients with pulmonary
fibrotic lesions compatible with previous tuberculosis (TB), despite the risk
of potentially life-threatening complications such as hepatitis, according to
a report from Switzerland.

The report warns, however, that it is still unclear whether the benefits of
such therapy outweigh possible side-effects.

Tuberculosis reactivation is increased among patients with chest X-rays
showing untreated fibrotic lesions suggestive of healed, previous TB
(so-called fibrotic lesions).

"Prophylactic treatment with a six to 12-month course of isoniazid (INH) has
proven effective in these cases, giving about 70 percent protection rate
against reactivation of TB," researcher F.P.  Sarasin and colleagues wrote
("Isoniazid Preventive Therapy for Pulmonary Tuberculosis Sequelae:  Which
Patients Up to Which Age?"  Tubercle and Lung Disease, 1995;76:394-400).

"Nonetheless, whether the benefit of isoniazid outweighs it potentially
life-threatening side effects (isoniazid-induced hepatitis) in all age groups,
and in patients with coexisting diseases that limit life expectancy such as
severe chronic heart failure (CHF) or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD), a frequent clinical situation, remains unstudied."

Earlier studies have focused on recommendations for prophylactic isoniazid
among patients with positive tuberculin skin test reactions only.  None,
however, has specifically addressed recommendations regarding persons with
fibrotic lesions discovered on chest X-ray.

In this study Sarasin et al.  conducted a Markov-based decision analysis model
which balances the risk of recurrent TB against TB-related mortality,
incidence of isoniazid-related hepatitis, and isoniazid-related death.

They also sought to determine the optimal strategy between a six- to 12-month
course of prophylactic isoniazid and therapeutic abstention in different age
groups and in patients with severe coexisting diseases that limit life
expectancy such as CHF or COPD.

"The core of our decision tree was a model representing the natural history of
untreated patients with pulmonary tuberculosis sequelae," Sarasin et al.
wrote.  "Over time, they may die from different age- or gender-related causes,
or develop early or late TB and die from it.  Whether these patients may
benefit from prophylactic isoniazid involves weighing the trade-offs between
the short term risks of isoniazid-related complications and avoidance of TB
reactivation, a benefit that may be accrued over the short or the long term,
depending on when TB occurs."

The Markov decision analysis found that in all groups of patients,
prophylactic isoniazid clearly reduced the number of deaths from tuberculosis,
whereas very few cases died from isoniazid-related toxicity.  However, because
isoniazid-related deaths occur early, and TB-related deaths can occur early or
late, the gain in life expectancy was small.

"Particularly for patients with short survival such as those older than 80
years and those with CHF or COPD, the average gain in life expectancy provided
by prophylactic isoniazid did not exceed on week," Sarasin et al.  wrote.

"When the gains in life expectancy provided by prophylactic isoniazid are
small and may not be considered clinically relevant, the optimal therapeutic
decision becomes a toss-up.  In clinical practice, toss-ups will undoubted be
interpreted differently by the physicians, the patients, and the health care
planners.  While physicians will focus on the patient's attitude toward risk
(risk-aversion versus risk-seeking profile) and on therapeutic observance,
patients will pay much more attention to the quality of life associated with
isoniazid therapy, and specifically the inconvenience of taking medication,
office visits, and laboratory tests.  On the other hand, from the health
planners' vantage point, the potential epidemiologic benefit of preventing
several future TB cases by treating one patient preventively will be the most
important determinant of decision making."

The authors conclude that the usually recommended six- to 12-month course of
prophylactic isoniazid is beneficial to all cohort age groups.  They added,
however, that recommendations should be modulated for the very elderly and
those with severe disease that limits life expectancy.

"For this subgroup of patients, frequently encountered in daily clinical
practice, the decision whether and for how long to give prophylactic therapy
might reasonably be left to the judgement of the individual patient and the
physician," they wrote.

The corresponding author for this study is F.P.  Sarasin, Clinique de Medecine
1, Hopital Cantonal Universitaire, 24 rue Micheli du Crest, 1211 Geneve 14,
Switzerland.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Therapy
Levofloxacin More Active than Ofloxacin in In Vitro Study


The experimental antituberculosis quinolone levofloxacin showed two- to
four-times more antimicrobial activity than ofloxacin in a newly reported in
vitro study from Japan.

"Levofloxacin showed greater activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv
phagocytosed in macrophages than ofloxacin," researcher H.  Saito and
colleagues wrote ("In Vitro Antimycobacterial Activity of a New Quinolone,
Levofloxacin," Tubercle and Lung Disease, 1995;76:377-380).

Levofloxacin, the optically active L-isomer of ofloxacin, exhibits significant
bactericidal activity by inhibiting DNA gyrase and has a strong antimicrobial
activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria.

The antimicrobial activity of levofloxacin has been found to be eight to 128
times greater than that of the corresponding D-isomer and approximately twice
as potent as that of ofloxacin.

In earlier studies Saito et al.  reported that some new quinolones including
ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, fleroxacin and sparfloxacin possessed appreciable in
vitro and in vivo antimycobacterial activity, especially against Mycobacterium
tuberculosis, M.  kansasii, M.  fortuitum, and M.  leprae.

In this study Saito et al.  examined in vitro antimicrobial activity of
levofloxacin against various pathogenic mycobacteria, in particular M.
tuberculosis and M.  avium complex (MAC).

Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of levofloxacin for various
mycobacterial species were determined by the agar dilution method using 7H11
medium and compared with those of ofloxacin.  Antimicrobial activity of
levofloxacin against M.  tuberculosis and M.  intracellulare phagocytosed in
murine peritoneal macrophages was measured in terms of reducing
cell-associated bacterial colony forming units (CFUs).

MICs of levofloxacin against M.  tuberculosis, M.  kansasii, M.  marinum, M.
scrofulaceum, M.  avium, M.  intracellulare, M.  fortuitum, and M.  chelonae
were two to four times lower than those of ofloxacin.  Levofloxacin exhibited
higher efficacy in reducing bacterial CFUs in macrophages than ofloxacin.

"The present results showed that in vitro antimicrobial activity of
levofloxacin against various mycobacteria was two to four times greater than
that of ofloxacin, in terms of minimum inhibitory concentration values," Saito
et al.  wrote.

Previous investigators have reported that the antimicrobial activity of
levofloxacin against various bacteria other than mycobacteria is generally
twice that of ofloxacin (Hayakawa et al., Antimicrob Agents and Chemother
1986;29:163-164; Imamura et al., Antimicrob Agents and Chemo 1987;31:325-327
and Tanka et al., J Antimicrob Chemother 1990;26:659-666).

"The difference in in vitro activity of levofloxacin from ofloxacin in these
reports is therefore consistent with that in the present study," Saito et al.
wrote.  "In the case of M.  intracellulare, significant delay of bacterial
growth was caused by levofloxacin added at 1 mg/L, but such efficacy was not
observed for ofloxacin at the same concentration.  Levofloxacin and ofloxacin
at doses of 10 mg/L prevented the bacterial growth during the whole incubation
period.  There were significant differences between these two quinolones in
the efficacy in reducing the intra-macrophage growth of M.  intracellulare."

The corresponding author for this study is H.  Saito, Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Shimane Medical University, Izumo 693, Japan.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transmission
New Policy Cautions HIV Infected Women on Breastfeeding


To prevent the spread of HIV to newborns, the American Academy of Pediatrics
(AAP) recommends that HIV infected women shouldn't breastfeed or donate
breastmilk to milk banks.  Despite the numerous health benefits of
breastfeeding to infants, the potential for HIV infection through human milk
exists, according to a new AAP policy.

Among the recommendations, the Academy recommends all women seeking prenatal
care should be counseled about the risk of HIV transmission and should be
offered voluntary HIV testing.  The academy's recommendations are intended for
the U.S., where infectious diseases and malnutrition are not major causes of
infant death and where safe alternatives to breastfeeding are available.

In cases where HIV infection is known not to be present, the Academy continues
to strongly promote breastfeeding as the optimal form of infant nutrition.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Xenotransplantation
Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality


Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Structured
Biologicals Inc.  (SBI), Toronto, Ontario, Canada, announced that an SBI
sponsored experiment consisting of a bone-marrow transplant from a baboon to
an AIDS patient took place at a San Francisco, California, hospital.

On July 14, 1995, an advisory panel to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) unanimously recommended that one AIDS patient be allowed to receive an
experimental bone-marrow transplant from a baboon.  Collaborators on the
experiment include Dr.  Anthony Fauci, head of the U.S.  National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and Dr.  Robert Gallo, a pioneering
AIDS researcher at the U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI).

Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., also a lecturer in surgery at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, took part in the procedure.

The experiment was devised by Dr.  Suzanne Ildstadt, Chief, Division of
Cellular Therapeutics, Pittsburgh University School of Medicine.  Ildstadt
discovered a novel blood cell, the "facilitating" cell, which eliminates the
risk of graft-versus-host disease, a fatal adverse reaction, and successfully
fights transplant rejection.

Baboons are naturally resistant to HIV-1.  It is therefore believed that the
uninfected baboon bone marrow cells will join the HIV infected human marrow to
restore the patient's immune function.

The applied "facilitating" cell technology may dramatically change the
practice of transplantation in that it could potentially enable permanent
acceptance of transplanted organs such as heart, kidney, lung and liver as
well as transplanted cells or tissue, all without the need for tissue matching
or prolonged administration of immunosuppressive drugs.

The technology could provide effective treatments for blood and autoimmune
diseases, such as:  Leukemia and Lymphoma, Sickle Cell Anemia, Thalassemia,
Systemic Lupus Euythematosis, Crohn's Disease and Type 1 Diabetes, and may
ultimately permit successful xenotransplantation (cross-species
transplantation).





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Accuracy of Chest Radiograph Interpretation in the Diagnosis of Pneumocystis
carinii Pneumonia, Bacterial Pneumonia, and Pulmonary Tuberculosis in HIV
Positive Patients."  P.M.  Boiselle, I.  Tocino, R.J.  Hooley, A.S.

Pumerantz, P.A.  Selwyn and V.P.  Neklesa, et al.  New Haven, Connecticut.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To assess the accuracy of
chest radiographic interpretation in the diagnosis of Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia (PCP), bacterial pneumonia (BP), and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) in
HIV-positive patients and to identify the frequency with which these
infections mimic each other radiographically.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  The
admitting chest radiographs of 153 HIV-positive patients with laboratory
proved BP (n=71), PCP (n=73) and pulmonary TB (n=9) and those of 10 HIV
positive patients with no active disease were reviewed retrospectively and
independently by 3 radiologists.  Readers were blinded to clinical
presentation, CD4 count, original radiographic interpretation, and final
diagnosis.  For each case, the radiologists listed a single diagnosis followed
by an assessment of degree of confidence.  RESULTS:  A confident diagnosis was
made in 136 of 163 cases (83.4%).  By specific diagnostic category, the median
accuracies are as follows:  pulmonary TB, 85%; PCP, 75%; BP, 64%; and no
active disease, 100%.  Correcting for random agreement, there was moderate
interobserver agreement.  Fifteen of 153 cases (9.8%) mimicked other
infections radiographically and were given the same inaccurate diagnosis by
all 3 independent observers.  CONCLUSION:  Chest radiographic interpretation
allows a confident and accurate diagnosis to be made in the majority of HIV
positive patients with PCP, BP, and TB at the time of hospitalization.  In
approximately 10% of cases, these infections may mimic each other
radiographically."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Esophageal Lymphoma and Viral 'Pseudolymphoma' in Patients with AIDS."  D.H.
Frager, C.  Rodeo, B.J.  Perlman, D.  Kotler, B.  Fein and J.  Frager.  New
York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To illustrate the
difficulty in establishing the diagnosis of esophageal lymphoma in patients
with AIDS and concomitant viral infection.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Esophageal
lymphoma or possible esophageal lymphoma was diagnosed in 8 AIDS patients over
a 4-year period.  Six patients underwent esophagography, in addition to
endoscopy and biopsy.  Four patients underwent repeated biopsies.  No patients
underwent immunologic marker studies.  RESULTS:  Only 1 patient had a polypoid
mass in the distal esophagus typical of neoplasm.  The other 7 patients had
esophageal ulcers that radiologically and at gross inspection endoscopically
were considered of viral (cytomegalovirus [CMV] or idiopathic) origin.
Pathologic examination initially suggested lymphoma in all 7 patients with
concomitant CMV in 5.  Follow-up biopsies revealed that the 'lymphomatous'
infiltrate was actually inflammatory reaction in 3.  In 1 patient, an isolated
CMV inclusion was discovered on the 2nd biopsy, and the esophageal ulcer
resolved with ganciclovir despite continued pathologic evidence of lymphoma.
CONCLUSION:  Esophageal lymphoma and viral infection coexist such that there
can be considerable diagnostic and thereby therapeutic confusion in regard to
these patients.  In patients with radiologically benign viral ulcers, repeat
biopsy or marker studies of pathologically 'lymphomatous' lesions are in
order."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Thoracic Neoplasms in AIDS:  Can We Tell Them Apart?."  H.K.  Pannu, J.F.
Gruden and S.A.  Oldham.  Houston, Texas.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "There is an increased risk of
malignancy in patients with AIDS.  This is likely due to a combination of
immunosuppression and possibly an oncogenic effect by the HIV itself.  Kaposi
sarcoma, AIDS related nonHodgkin lymphoma, and invasive cervical carcinoma are
classified as AIDS-defining illnesses.  Hodgkin disease, bronchogenic
carcinoma, and anal carcinoma may also be associated with AIDS, although this
is controversial.  The purpose of this exhibit is to describe the radiographic
and CT appearances of these tumors and of metastatic disease in the chest in
AIDS patients.  Emphasis will be placed on definition of distinguishing
features of these neoplasms, although biopsy of focal disease is often needed
for ultimate diagnosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (TB)
"Effect of HIV Status on Chest CT Findings In Patients with Tuberculosis."
L.B.  Haramati, E.R.  Jenny-Avital and D.D.  Alterman.  Bronx, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To describe the chest CT
findings of tuberculosis in HIV positive patients compared with a combined
group of HIV negative and untested patients with no known HIV risk factors.
CONCLUSION:  Chest CT in HIV positive patients with tuberculosis demonstrated
bilateral mediastinal lymphadenopathy significantly more frequently (67% vs
20%) and cavitation significantly less frequently (0% vs 80%) than a combined
group of HIV negative or untested patients with no known HIV risk factors."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (TB)
"Musculoskeletal Tuberculosis:  MR Imaging Manifestations."  H.S.  Kang, J.
Ahn, S.M.  Kim and J.W.  Ryoo.  Seoul, South Korea.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "With the increasing incidence of AIDS
and drug abuse, tuberculosis has been resurging.  Tuberculosis is especially
important because it is readily treatable, and permanent damage is potentially
preventable.  MR imaging has been successfully used for the evaluation of
musculoskeletal tuberculosis.  This exhibit presents various MR imaging
manifestations of musculoskeletal tuberculosis that involves the spine,
tubular bones, flat bones, synovial joints, fibrous joints, bursae, tendon
sheaths, and muscles.  The role of MR imaging and contrast enhancement in the
evaluation of musculoskeletal tuberculosis and the differential diagnosis are
discussed."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (TB)
"Sites of Tuberculous Involvement in AIDS Patients:  Correlation with Gallium
Scans."  H.M.  Abdel-Dayem, S.Y.  Naddaf, B.  Mina, M.S.  Aziz, L.  DiFabrizio
and J.S.  Kempf et al.  New York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  Tuberculosis (TB) in AIDS
patients has a more aggressive and different pathologic picture than it does
in non-AIDS patients; this fact influences the methods of diagnosis and
treatment.  Gallium studies have been recommended in the work-up of these
patients.  The purpose of this study was to review the gallium scans in all
AIDS patients with a proved diagnosis of TB to find the sites of involvement
and causes of false negative gallium scanning and to provide correlation with
chest x-ray findings.  CONCLUSION:  Lymph node involvement with TB infection
in AIDS patients is more common than parenchymal lung involvement.  The
mediastinal and supraclavicular areas were involved most often, followed by
the axillary, upper abdominal and inguinal regions.  Anti-TB treatment affects
the sensitivity of gallium scanning in AIDS patients with TB."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Disease Associations
"AIDS Related Lymphoma:  Spinal Involvement."  Y.  Cordoliani, J.  Sarrazin,
D.  Soulie, D.  Jeanbourquin, O.  Helie and G.  Cosnard.  Paris, France.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "This exhibit illustrates the
different mechanisms of spinal involvement by lymphoma.  Various kinds of
involvement are shown, including intramedullary lymphoma, lymphomatous
arachnoiditis, epidural lymphoma, and retroperitoneal lymphoma invading
epidural space.  Intramedullary AIDS related primary lymphoma is very unusual,
but primary or secondary lymphoma can occur in both intradural and epidural
spaces.  Diagnosis is made by means of lumbar puncture or biopsy.  For
intramedullary lymphoma in which biopsy is potentially dangerous, an empiric
antitoxoplasmic treatment should be undertaken if cerebrospinal fluid study
does not show lymphomatous cells.  If there is no improvement in the clinical
status and no decrease in the volume of the lesion, biopsy must be considered.
Radiation therapy can cure the lesion."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Immunology (TB)
"Regulation of the Human Cellular Immune Response in Tuberculosis."  J.J.
Ellner.  Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.


According to an abstract submitted by the author to The Lancet Conference 'The
Challenge of Tuberculosis', held September 14-15, 1995, in Washington, D.C.,
"Pulmonary tuberculosis is characterized by activation of local and systemic
immune and inflammatory cells and mediators.  Somewhat paradoxically, delayed
type hypersensitivity responses to tuberculin purified protein derivative, and
in vitro correlates frequently are depressed in patients with tuberculosis.
Cross-modulatory cytokines, produced by mononuclear phagocytes, chiefly
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-(beta)), deactivate effector function,
depress T-cell activation and may account for depressed delayed-type
hypersensitivity (DTH) and increased antibody levels.  Ingestion of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis by mononuclear phagocytes stimulates expression of
cytokines.  Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-(alpha)) and TGF-(beta) function
in autocrine circuits producing activating and deactivating signals,
respectively, for macrophage effector function.  Lipoarabinomannen (LAM) from
virulent M.  tuberculosis selectively induces expression of TFG-(beta)
relative to TFG-(alpha) by monocytes.  In patients with tuberculosis,
TFG-(beta) is expressed in granulomas, and blood monocytes show increased
spontaneous and tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD)-stimulated
production of this cytokine.  Moreover, neutralizing antibody to TFG-(beta)
reverses depressed PPD-stimulated blastogenesis and interferon-gamma
expression.  Therefore, TFG-(beta) seems a key mediator of immunosuppression
and energy.  Moreover, neutralizing antibody to interleukin-10 partly restores
PPD-stimulated blastogenesis.  Parallel with depressed T-cell responses,
patients with pulmonary tuberculosis show increased levels of IgM, IgG, IgG-1,
and IgE antibodies directed against M.  tuberculosis.  This finding too may
reflect cross-regulation by TFG-(beta).  Current understanding of
immunoregulation in tuberculosis provides some clear directions for
immunotherapy.  In dually-infected persons, activation of CD4 lymphocytes and
monocytes by tuberculosis might promote replication of HIV-1.  In fact, serum
and cell-derived TNF-(alpha) are increased in HIV infected tuberculosis
patients and this cytokine is known to stimulate HIV replication.  Further,
monocytes from patients with tuberculosis show increased infectability by HIV;
and PPD and M.  tuberculosis stimulate HIV replication in latently infected
macrophages.  Therefore, M.  tuberculosis and HIV infections may be mutually
enhancing.  The human immune response can be used to identify candidates for a
subunit vaccine.  Increasing evidence supports a primary role for
extracellular products of M.  tuberculosis as a target of protective immunity.
Epitope mapping of the secreted 30 kD alpha-antigen indicates immunodominance
of certain peptides that could provide the basis for an improved vaccine or
DTH skin test."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Infection Control (TB)
"Behavioral Factors in Tuberculosis Control."  E.  Sumartojo.  Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, Georgia.


According to an abstract submitted by the author to The Lancet Conference 'The
Challenge of Tuberculosis', held September 14-15, 1995, in Washington, D.C.,
"Tuberculosis control is directed towards ensuring that patients complete
treatment without infecting others.  Relevant Behavioral and social factors
concern the decisions and actions of individuals who influence treatment
outcomes, including persons at risk for disease, tuberculosis patients, and
health care providers.  Relevant issues include health education for patients
and for the public, provider knowledge and practice, the unique needs of HIV
infected persons and others at high risk of tuberculosis, and the quality of
treatment and control services.  Poor medication adherence remains the core
Behavioral problem in tuberculosis control.  Supervised or directly observed
therapy (DOT) is a currently accepted solution but it is not a panacea; where
successful, it is part of an array of other services.  Continuing social and
Behavioral research describes factors associated with adherence.  Ethnographic
research has addressed the knowledge and beliefs of individuals about
tuberculosis.  Findings are that individuals from various cultures associate
tuberculosis with stigmatization and rejection, have concerns about the
appropriateness and quality of health care, and are often misinformed about
the cause and treatment of the disease.  Studies of interventions show the
effectiveness of community health workers, family and community support, and
comprehensive services that include strong case management, efficient clinic
practices, and additional social or health services for patients.  Research is
emerging on communication strategies used by providers as they talk to
patients, and the impact of poor communication on patient behavior.  Studies
of treatment practices show that some physicians use inadequate regimens, with
implications for the education and supervision of physicians who treat
tuberculosis.  In the next few years, research will emphasize development of
locally appropriate and effective treatment services.  Behavioral research
must focus in intervention studies, informed by findings from existing
descriptive research, but also incorporating social and Behavioral theory and
research methods, and epidemiological research methods.  Critical issues will
be identifying the best mix of services for specific regions and types of
patients, improving provider communication strategies and provider practices,
and ensuring that persons with high likelihood of exposure or HIV infection
seek screening and complete preventive therapy or treatment for tuberculosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Therapy (Kaposi Sarcoma)
"Radiation Therapy of the Oral Cavity and Oropharynx In Patients with AIDS
Related Kaposi Sarcoma."  L.Z.  Nisce, M.  Coleman and T.P.  Kaulmann.  New
York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  The well-documented
phenomenon of exaggerated mucosal toxicity in patients with AIDS treated with
radiation therapy has generally precluded the use of this modality in patients
with Kaposi sarcoma involving the head and neck.  A study to evaluate the
feasibility of radiation therapy with an intensive oral care and radiation
planning technique was assessed at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical
Center from 1991 to 1995.  CONCLUSION:  Numerous reports discourage the use of
radiation therapy in this group of patients.  Our preliminary results
demonstrate that radiation therapy is feasible and can markedly improve their
quality of life."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Dermatology
Kerschmann, R.L.; Berger, T.G.; Weiss, L.M.; Herndier, B.G.; Abrahms, K.M.;
Heon, V.; Schulze, K.; Kaplan, L.D.; Resnik, S.D.; Leboit, P.E.  "Cutaneous
Presentations of Lymphoma in Human Immunodeficiency Virus Disease:

Predominance of T-Cell Lineage."  Archives of Dermatology, November
1995;131(11):1281-1288.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Archives of
Dermatology, "BACKGROUND AND DESIGN:  Most non-Hodgkin's lymphomas in patients
with human immunodeficiency virus infection are of B-cell lineage.  Cutaneous
lymphoma in the human immunodeficiency virus disease has not been
systematically reviewed.  We studied 25 patients with both human
immunodeficiency virus infection and cutaneous presentations of lymphoma,
using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization for Epstein-Barr virus.
RESULTS:  Two groups of patients were discerned:  (1) those with conditions
similar to mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome with an indolent course (n=8)
and (2) those with nodules or papules, greater immunosuppression, a rapid
clinical course, and large cell lymphoma seen on biopsy specimens (n=17).  The
epidermotropic lymphomas were of T-cell lineage and CD30(-).  Thirteen of the
large cell lymphomas were also of the T-cell type, and 71% were CD30(+).
Epstein-Barr virus was absent in the epidermotropic lymphomas, but it was
present in 73% of the nonepidermotropic cases.  CONCLUSIONS:  Two forms of
human immunodeficiency virus-associated cutaneous lymphoma were found:
indolent disease resembling mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome and large
cell lymphomas with a poor prognosis, whose cells often had a CD30(+) T-cell
phenotype and harbored the Epstein-Barr virus."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  RL Kerschmann, Univ Calif San Francisco, Sch Med, Dept Pathol,
San Francisco, CA 94143 USA.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Amer Medical Assoc, 515 N State St, Chicago, IL 60610.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

HIV Vaccines
Honda, M.; Matsuo, K.; Nakasone, T.; Okamoto, Y.; Yoshizaki, H.; Kitamura, K.;
Sugiura, W.; Watanabe, K.; Fukushima, Y.; Haga, S.; Katsura, Y.; Tasaka, H.;
Komuro, K.; Yamada, T.; Asano, T.; Yamazaki, A.; Yamazaki, S.  "Protective

Immune Responses Induced by Secretion of a Chimeric Soluble Protein from a
Recombinant Mycobacterium bovis Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Vector Candidate
Vaccine for Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 in Small Animals."
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
America, November 7, 1995;92(23):10693-10697.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, "A
recombinant Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vector-based
vaccine that secretes the V3 principal neutralizing epitope of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) could induce immune response to the epitope and
prevent the viral infection.  By using the Japanese consensus sequence of
HIV-1, we successfully constructed chimeric protein secretion vectors by
selecting an appropriate insertion site of a carrier protein and established
the principal neutralizing determinant (PND)-peptide secretion system in BCG.
The recombinant BCG (rBCG)-inoculated guinea pigs were initially screened by
delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin reactions to the PND peptide,
followed by passive transfer of the DTH by the systemic route.  Further,
immunization of mice with the rBCG resulted in induction of cytotoxic T
lymphocytes.  The guinea pig immune antisera showed elevated titers to the PND
peptide and neutralized HIVMN, and administration of serum IgG from the
vaccinated guinea pigs was effective in completely blocking the HIV infection
in thymus/liver transplanted severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)/hu or
SCID/PBL mice.  In addition, the immune serum IgG was shown to neutralize
primary field isolates of HIV that match the neutralizing sequence motif by a
peripheral blood mononuclear fell-based virus neutralization assay.  The data
support the idea that the antigen-secreting rBCG system can be used as a tool
for development of HIV vaccines."  The corresponding author for this study is:
M Honda, Natl Inst Hlth, Ctr AIDS Res, Shinjuku Ku, Tokyo 162, Japan.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Natl Acad
Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20418.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Hodgkin's Disease
Siebert, J.D.; Ambinder, R.F.; Napoli, V.M.; Quintanillamartinez, L.; Banks,
P.M.; Gulley, M.L.  "Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Associated Hodgkin's Disease
Contains Latent, Not Replicative, Epstein-Barr Virus."  Human Pathology,

November 1995;26(11):1191-1195.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Human Pathology,
"Severe immunodeficiency is associated with reactivation of latent
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) that is manifested by virus replication.  It is
unknown whether EBV replication also occurs in the Hodgkin's disease (HD)
tissue of patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Therefore, we studied paraffin-embedded lymph nodes from 13 cases of
HIV-associated HD to determine the latent or replicative state of EBV
infection.  All patients were seropositive HIV-infected men; additional
clinical information was available for 12 patients.  The risk factor(s) for
HIV infection were homosexuality (n=7), intravenous drug abuse (n=2),
homosexuality and intravenous drug abuse (n=1), sexual promiscuity (n=1), or
hemophilia (n=1).  Advanced clinical stage and B symptoms were common at the
time of initial diagnosis of HD.  The histological subtype of Hodgkin's
disease was universally mixed cellularity, except for a single case classified
as nodular sclerosis.  Seven cases exhibited foci of relative lymphoid
depletion.  Five cases contained foci of necrosis.  Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells
and RS cell variants were positive for CD30/BerH2 and negative for CD45/LCA
CD45RO/UCHL1, and CD20/L26 in all cases.  Tumor cells were positive for
CD15/LeuM1 in seven cases.  In all 13 cases, RS cells and RS cell variants
were infected by latent EBV as shown by in situ hybridization to EBV-encoded
ribonucleic acid (EBER1).  In 12 of 13 cases neoplastic cells coexpressed EBV
latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1).  EBV replication was examined by two
different methods:  immunohistochemistry to identify EBV-encoded BZLF1 protein
and in situ hybridization to detect EBV BHLF1 transcripts.  No positivity in
RS or RS cell variants was detected with either assay of EBV replication (95%
confidence interval [CI]=0% to 23%).  The findings confirm that EBV is
detected more frequently in HIV-associated HD when compared with
immunocompetent patients with HD.  The findings also suggest that EBV is
tightly latent within RS and RS cell variants of HIV-associated HD.  It
appears that factors other than host immune status are important in
maintaining EBV latency in HIV-associated HD."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  ML Gulley, Univ Texas, Hlth Sci Ctr, Dept Pathol, 7703 Floyd
Curl Dr, San Antonio, TX 78284 USA.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  W B Saunders Co, Independence Square West,
Curtis Center, Ste 300, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3399.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Immunotherapy
Hasenkrug, K.J.; Brooks, D.M.; Chesebro, B.  "Passive Immunotherapy for
Retroviral Disease:  Influence of Major Histocompatibility Complex Type and
T-Cell Responsiveness."  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of

the United States of America, November 7, 1995;92(23):10492-10495.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
"Administration of virus-specific antibodies is known to be an effective early
treatment for some viral infections.  Such immunotherapy probably acts by
antibody-mediated neutralization of viral infectivity and is often thought to
function independently of T-cell-mediated immune responses.  In the present
experiments, we studied passive antibody therapy using Friend murine leukemia
virus complex as a model for an immunosuppressive retroviral disease in adult
mice.  The results showed that antibody therapy could induce recovery from a
well-established retroviral infection.  However, the success of therapy was
dependent on the presence of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes.  Thus,
cell-mediated responses were required for recovery from infection even in the
presence of therapeutic levels of antibody.  The major histocompatibility type
of the mice was also an important factor determining the relative success of
antibody therapy in this system, but it was less critical for low-dose than
for high-dose infections.  Our results imply that limited T-cell
responsiveness as dictated by major histocompatibility genes and/or stage of
disease may have contributed to previous immunotherapy failures in AIDS
patients.  Possible strategies to improve the efficacy of future therapies are
discussed."  The corresponding author for this study is:  KJ Hasenkrug, Niaid,
Rocky Mt Labs, Persistent Viral Dis Lab, 903 S 4TH St, Hamilton, MT 59840 USA.
For subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Natl
Acad Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20418.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Knowledge, Attitudes and Behavior
Steele, A.; Melby, V.  "Nurses' Knowledge and Beliefs about AIDS:  Comparing
Nurses in Hospital, Community and Hospice Settings."  Journal of Advanced
Nursing, November 1995;22(5):879-887.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Journal of
Advanced Nursing, "The literature reports an ongoing debate amongst nurses
regarding the risk of contracting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through
routine nursing care.  An emotionally charged dilemma appears to exist for
many nurses regarding what they perceive as conflict between professional
obligation and personal risk.  This study investigates nurses' beliefs,
knowledge and perceptions of risk of contracting HIV while implementing their
nursing care.  The study focuses on qualified nurses in the hospice, hospital
and community settings.  No other similar comparative study that also focuses
on hospice nurses has been identified.  This quantitative study was
implemented within Northern Ireland, by way of a respondent-administered
questionnaire.  The study's sample consisted of 45 qualified nurses and a
response rate of 93% (42 respondents) was achieved.  Analysis of the data
involved the use of descriptive and correlational statistics.  Overall
findings indicated that many nurses, but particularly those who work in the
hospital and community settings, hold negative and biased beliefs, and have
inadequate knowledge and misguided perceptions regarding their risk of
contracting HIV through the implementation of routine nursing care of clients.
Many of those nurses readily admit their lack of knowledge.  On the whole,
hospice nurses appear more knowledgeable and exhibit a more positive approach
to AIDS clients, and appear less fearful than do nurses in the other two
settings.  Implications for hospital management, for nurse education, for
nurses themselves and for clients are discussed.  This study should be seen as
a springboard for future research within Northern Ireland."  The corresponding
author for this study is:  V Melby, Univ Ulster, Sch Hlth Sci, Coleraine BT52
1SA, Londonderry, North Ireland.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Blackwell Science Ltd, Osney Mead, Oxford,
Oxon, England OX2 0EL.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Obstetrics
Thorne, C.; Newell, M.L.; Dunn, D.; Peckham, C.  "The European Collaborative
Study:  Clinical and Immunological Characteristics of HIV 1-Infected Pregnant
Women."  British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, November

1995;102(11):869-875.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in British Journal
of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, "OBJECTIVE:  To describe the changing clinical
and immunological characteristics and timing of diagnosis of HIV-infected
pregnant women enrolled in the European Collaborative Study.  DESIGN:  A
prospective study of the mothers of children enrolled in the European
Collaborative Study on children born to HIV-infected women.  SETTING:
Twenty-one European centres in seven countries.  SUBJECTS:  One thousand six
hundred and ninety HIV-infected women and their 1754 deliveries.  RESULTS:
The proportion of women in whom HIV infection had been diagnosed before
pregnancy increased significantly over time, from 7% in 1984-1985 to 65% in
1994 (P<0.001).  The prevalence of breastfeeding, which was related to the
timing of diagnosis, significantly declined over the study period.  The mean
CD4 count was 510 cells/mm(3), and there was a significant decline in average
CD4 count over the study period.  Black women had a significantly lower CD4
count than white women.  From survival analysis it is estimated that five
years after delivery, 14% of women will have died and 24% will have developed
CDC stage IV disease.  CONCLUSIONS:  Timing of diagnosis is of critical
importance if mother-to-child transmission is to be reduced through avoidance
of breastfeeding and zidovudine therapy and effective antenatal screening
policies have become increasingly important.  The rate of progression of
maternal disease highlights the implications of HIV infection for their
children, both infected and uninfected."  The corresponding author for this
study is:  C Peckham, Inst Child Hlth, Epidemiol & Biostat Unit, 30 Guilford
St, London WC1N 1EH, England.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Blackwell Science Ltd, Osney Mead, Oxford, Oxon,
England OX2 0EL.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "37"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Ophthalmology
Davis, J.L.; Serfass, M.S.; Lai, M.Y.; Trask, D.K.; Azen, S.P.L.  "Silicone
Oil in Repair of Retinal Detachments Caused by Necrotizing Retinitis in HIV
Infection."  Archives of Ophthalmology, November 1995;113(11):1401-1409.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Archives of
Ophthalmology, "OBJECTIVE:  To evaluate the safety and efficacy of 1000-and
5000-centistoke silicone oil as retinal tamponades for the treatment of
retinal detachments secondary to necrotizing retinitis in patients with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.  DESIGN:  A prospective observational
study.  SETTING:  Community and university-based ophthalmology clinics.
PATIENTS:  Three hundred fifty patients with HIV infection, who had 407 eyes
with retinal detachments secondary to necrotizing retinitis.  INTERVENTION:
Vitrectomy surgery for retinal detachment with 1000- or 5000-centistoke
silicone oil as the retinal tamponade.  OUTCOME MEASURES:  Efficacy was
measured both by anatomic success (defined as complete retinal attachment or
macular attachment) and by visual acuity success (defined as preservation of
visual acuity or ambulatory vision).  Safety was determined by the rate of
complications, including abnormal intraocular pressure and corneal and lens
opacification.  RESULTS:  At the last follow-up examination, the retina was
completely attached in 287 (73%) of 393 eyes, the macula was attached in 370
eyes (94%), 268 eyes (68%) had ambulatory vision, and visual acuity was
preserved in 219 (56%) of 388 eyes.  Corneal opacification, hypotony, and
silicone oil emulsification were present in 4%, 2%, and 1% of eyes,
respectively.  One eye had elevated intraocular pressure.  Of the 57 patients
who had both eyes treated, 35 died, of whom four (11%) had nonambulatory
vision in both eyes.  Of the 293 patients who had one eye treated, 122 died,
of whom 44 (36%) died with nonambulatory vision in the treated eye.  The
median time to cataract was 192 days; to nonambulatory vision, 474 days; and
to death, 204 days.  CONCLUSIONS:  Silicone oil repair of retinal detachments
in necrotizing retinitis is an efficacious and safe procedure that delays or
prevents loss of vision in advanced HIV disease."  The corresponding author
for this study is:  JL Davis, Univ Miami, Sch Med, Bascom Palmer Eye Inst,
Dept Ophthalmol, POB 016880, Miami, FL 33101 USA.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Medical Assoc, 515 N
State St, Chicago, IL 60610.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "38"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Peptide Vaccines
Mitsuda, S.; Nakagawa, T.; Nakazato, H.; Ikai, A.  "Receptor-Linked Antigen
Delivery System - Importance of Autologous Alpha 2-Macroglobulin in the
Development of Peptide Vaccine."  Biochemical and Biophysical Research

Communications, November 2, 1995;216(1):399-405.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Biochemical and
Biophysical Research Communications, "We have hijacked a process of the
receptor-mediated endocytosis to transport peptide antigens into antigen
presenting cells (APCs) for the purpose of increasing the level of antigen
presentation (named Receptor-Linked Antigen Delivery System (R-LADS)).  By
coupling an endogenous plasma proteinase inhibitor alpha2-macroglobulin (alpha
2M) to a synthetic peptide having a partial sequence of HIV-1 envelope
protein, alpha 2M was made to carry the peptide into APCs as a part of the
normal alpha 2M cycle, which resulted in an increased production of specific
antibodies against the peptide (Mitsuda, S., Nakagawa, T., Osada, T.,
Shimamoto, T., Nakazato, H.  and Ikai, A.  (1993) Biochem.  Biophys.  Res.
Commun.  194, 1155-1160).  We demonstrate here that this procedure becomes a
more efficient tool for antibody production when autologous transporter
protein was used.  By using murine alpha 2M (m alpha 2M) instead of
heterologous human alpha 2M (h alpha 2M) when mice were experimental animals,
we were able to dramatically enhance the production level of anti-HIV-1
peptide antibodies and shorten the period which is needed for antibody
production.  We aim to develop effective peptide vaccines by further improving
this system."  The corresponding author for this study is:  S Mitsuda, Tokyo
Inst Technol, Fac Biosci & Biotechnol, Dept Sci Biol, Midori Ku, 4259
Nagatsuta CHO, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226, Japan.  For subscription information
for this journal contact the publisher:  Academic Press Inc Jnl-Comp
Subscriptions, 525B Street, Suite 1900, San Diego, CA 92101-4495.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "39"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pharmacoeconomics
Castelo, A.; Mathiasi, P.A.; Iunes, R.; Kritski, A.L.; Dalcolmo, M.; Demelo,
F.F.; Drummond, M.  "Cost Effectiveness of Antituberculosis Interventions."
Pharmacoeconomics, November 1995;8(5):385-399.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in
Pharmacoeconomics, "The treatment of tuberculosis (TB) is ranked as the most
cost effective of all therapeutic programmes in terms of cost per year of life
saved.  Nevertheless, TB kills or debilitates more adults aged between 15 and
59 years than any other disease in the world; furthermore, about 2 to 4% of
the burden of disease, 7% of all deaths and 26% of all preventable deaths are
directly attributable to TB.  About one-third of the world's population is
infected with the TB bacillus.  In the developing world, more women of
childbearing age die from TB than from causes directly associated with
pregnancy and childbirth.  The death of adults in their prime, who are
parents, community leaders and producers in most societies, causes a
particularly onerous burden besides being a serious public health problem.  In
the poorest countries, where the magnitude of the TB problem is greatest,
those TB control strategies that are economically feasible tend to be less
effective.  Therefore, in low and middle income countries, cost-effectiveness
considerations aimed at prioritizing resource allocation in the health sector
in general, and in TB control programmes in particular, are of paramount
importance.  Operationally, the main components of a TB control programme are:
(i) detection and treatment of TB; and (ii) prevention of TB through BCG
vaccination and chemoprophylaxis.  Priority should be given to ensuring that
TB patients complete their prescribed course of chemotherapy.  Adequate
treatment is the most effective way of preventing the spread of TB and the
emergence of drug resistance.  This article reviews evidence of the
effectiveness and cost effectiveness of different approaches to TB can,
particularly those that are applicable to low income countries, in both
HIV-infected and noninfected patients.  Financial implications and ways to
implement directly observed therapy for TB in large urban areas are discussed,
and the need to address some relevant operational issues is highlighted.  The
current role of chemoprophylaxis and BCG vaccination is also reviewed."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  A Castelo, Univ Fed Sao Paulo, Escola
Paulista Med, Rua Botocatu 740, BR-04023062 Sao Paulo, Brazil.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Adis
International Ltd, 41 Centorian Dr, Private Bag 65901,, Mairangi Bay, Auckland
10, New Zealand.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "40"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pneumocystis carinii
Horner, R.D.; Bennett, C.L.; Rodriguez, D.; Weinstein, R.A.; Kessler, H.A.;
Dickinson, G.M.; Johnson, J.L.; Cohn, S.E.; George, W.L.; Gilman, S.C.;
Shapiro, M.F.  "Relationship Between Procedures and Health Insurance for

Critically III Patients with Pneumocystis carinii Pneumonia."  American
Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, November
1995;152(5):1435-1442.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, "The objective of the present study
was to assess the association between type of health insurance coverage and
use of diagnostic tests and therapies among patients with AIDS-related
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).  Fifty-six private, public, and
community hospitals in Chicago, Los Angeles, and Miami were selected for the
study, and the charts of 890 patients with empirically treated or
cytologically confirmed PCP, hospitalized during 1987 to 1990 were
retrospectively reviewed.  Patients were classified by insurance status:
self-pay (n=56), Medicaid (n=254), or private insurance, including health
maintenance organizations and Medicare (n=580).  Primary outcomes were the use
and timing of bronchoscopy, the type and timing of PCP therapy, and
in-hospital mortality.  The results indicate that Medicaid patients were less
likely than privately insured patients to undergo bronchoscopy (relative odds
= 0.61; 95% CI = 0.40, 0.93; P=0.02) or to have their diagnosis of PCP
confirmed (relative odds = 0.51; 95% CI = 0.33, 0.77), after adjusting for
patient, severity of illness, and hospital characteristics.  Medicaid patients
were approximately three-fourths more likely than privately insured patients
(relative odds = 1.73; 95% CI = 1.01, 2.96; P=0.04) to die in-hospital, after
adjusting for patient, severity of illness, and hospital characteristics.
However, with further adjustment for confirmation of PCP, Medicaid patients no
longer had a significantly higher likelihood of dying in-hospital.  We
conclude that Medicaid patients are less likely to receive diagnostic
bronchoscopy than privately insured or self-insured patients, more likely to
be empirically treated for PCP, and more likely to die in-hospital.  Higher
mortality among Medicaid patients may result from failure to diagnose and
treat alternative pathogens, a consequence of worse access to invasive
diagnostic tests."  The corresponding author for this study is:  CL Bennett,
333 E Huron St, Chicago, IL 60611 USA.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Amer Lung Assoc, 1740 Broadway, New York, NY
10019.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "41"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Seroprevalence
Remis, R.S.; Eason, E.L.; Palmer, R.W.H.; Najjar, M.; Leclerc, P.; Lebel, F.;
Fauvel, M.  "HIV Infection among Women Undergoing Abortion in Montreal.."
Canadian Medical Association Journal, November 1, 1995;153(9):1271-1279.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Canadian Medical
Association Journal, "OBJECTIVE:  To determine the seroprevalence and
correlates of HIV infection in a subpopulation of women of childbearing age in
Montreal.  DESIGN:  Anonymous unlinked seroprevalence study.  SETTING:
Pregnancy termination unit in a teaching hospital in Montreal.  PARTICIPANTS:
Women presenting for abortion from July 1989 to June 1993 who resided in
Quebec and were not known to have HIV infection, 12017 (99.6%) of 12068
eligible women were included in the study.  INTERVENTION:  HIV antibody
testing of serum left over from samples obtained for routine Rh typing, the
same algorithm as for serodiagnostic testing, namely enzyme immunoassay (EIA)
followed by confirmatory testing of repeatedly EIA-reactive samples, was used.
OUTCOME MEASURES:  HIV serostatus by age, marital status, region of residence
(metropolitan Montreal Versus other), country of birth and number of living
children.  RESULTS:  Most (84.7%) of the subjects resided in metropolitan
Montreal.  The median age was 27.0 (range 13 to 50) years.  The serum samples
of 22 women were confirmed to be HIV positive, for an overall seroprevalence
rate of 1.8 per 1000 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 2.8).  The seroprevalence
rate did not vary significantly by age, marital status, region of residence or
study year.  However, it was strongly correlated with country of birth:
Canada 0.16, Haiti 23.5, HIV-endemic countries other than Haiti 5.3 and
non-HIV-endemic countries other than Canada 0.0 per 1000.  The seroprevalence
rate among women born in Haiti was 147 times higher than that among women born
in Canada (P<0.0001).  Of the women born in Haiti the rate was 3.0 times
greater among those who immigrated to Canada in 1985 or later than among those
who immigrated earlier (P=0.047).  CONCLUSIONS:  The results of this study
indicate that the HIV seroprevalence rate among women in Montreal is strongly
associated with country of birth, women born in HIV-endemic countries,
especially Haiti, having the highest rate.  These results will help in the
development of policies regarding HIV antibody testing and prevention of HIV
transmission in Quebec."  The corresponding author for this study is:  RS
Remis, Montreal Reg Publ Hlth Dept, 3RD Floor, 1616 Rene Levesque Blvd W,
Montreal, Pq H3H 1P8, Canada.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Canadian Medical Association, 1867 Alta Vista Dr,
Ottawa on K1G 3Y6, Canada.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "42"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

TB/HIV Coinfection
Pozniak, A.L.; Macleod, G.A.; Ndlovu, D.; Ross, E.; Mahari, M.; Weinberg, J.
"Clinical and Chest Radiographic Features of Tuberculosis Associated with
Human Immunodeficiency Virus in Zimbabwe."  American Journal of Respiratory

and Critical Care Medicine, November 1995;152(5):1558-1561.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, "In the developing world, the
diagnosis of tuberculosis is dependent on clinical and radiologic features as
culture facilities are not readily available.  It has been reported that
tuberculosis in HIV-positive persons can present with atypical clinical and
radiographic features.  The object of this study was to examine how often
atypical features occur in HIV-positive compared with HIV-negative persons and
how these findings correspond to sputum-smear findings.  Detailed demographic,
clinical, and chest radiographic features of tuberculosis were assessed in 202
HIV-positive adults and 220 HIV-negative patients admitted consecutively.
Using univariate analysis, several of these features were found to be
significantly associated with being HIV-positive, but after multiple
regression analysis only, age group (15 to 42 yr), a negative tuberculin
response, intrathoracic lymphadenopathy, and lack of cavitation but not
sputum-smear status remained significant."  The corresponding author for this
study is:  AL Pozniak, Kings Healthcare, Dept Genitourinary Med, 15-22
Caldecot Rd, London SE5 9RS, England.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Amer Lung Assoc, 1740 Broadway, New York, NY
10019.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "43"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Therapy (Hepatotoxicity)
Vandenbrande, P.; Vansteenbergen, W.; Vervoort, G.; Demedts, M.  "Aging and
Hepatotoxicity of Isoniazid and Rifampin in Pulmonary Tuberculosis."  American
Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, November

1995;152(5):1705-1708.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, "We evaluated whether elderly
patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and without apparent preexisting liver
disease are at an increased risk to develop hepatotoxicity from an
isoniazid-rifampin regimen and require regular liver function tests in
comparison with younger patients.  We analyzed the data of 131 patients
treated in the period 1980-1985 of whom 64 (49%) were at least 60 yr of age.
Subsequent increases of transaminases (measured weekly for as long as 4 wk
after the start of treatment and later on when symptoms suggestive of
hepatotoxicity occurred) above baseline values were found more frequently in
the elderly (38 versus 18%, P<0.05) and were also more pronounced in them
(P<0.01).  The ratio of the highest transaminase value over the baseline value
was called the transaminase index (TI).  A TI of at least 5 was found in 22%
of elderly and 8% of younger patients (P=NS), but ratios as high as 10 were
mostly asymptomatic and always normalized progressively without treatment
adjustment.  Only symptomatic patients with a TI greater than or equal to 10
(five elderly and three younger) required temporary or definitive treatment
adjustment.  We conclude that repeated liver function test evaluations are
generally unnecessary, except for symptomatic elderly and younger patients
alike, in order to detect those with a TI greater than or equal to 10, thus
requiring drug adjustment."  The corresponding author for this study is:  M
Demedts, Univ Hosp Gasthuisberg, Herestr 19, B-3000 Louvain, Belgium.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Lung
Assoc, 1740 Broadway, New York, NY 10019.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "44"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Therapy (Hepatotoxicity)
Ozick, L.A.; Jacob, L.; Comer, G.M.; Lee, T.P.; Benzvi, J.; Donelson, S.S.;
Felton, C.P.  "Hepatotoxicity from Isoniazid and Rifampin in Inner-City AIDS
Patients."  American Journal of Gastroenterology, November

1995;90(11):1978-1980.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Gastroenterology, "OBJECTIVE:  To determine the incidence of hepatotoxicity
due to isoniazid and rifampin in inner-city patients with active tuberculosis.
DESIGN:  A hospital-based review of 70 consecutive in-patients in a 770-bed,
inner-city hospital.  The patient population is primarily African-American and
Hispanic.  METHODS:  Fifty-eight men and 12 women were followed from 2-12 wk
(median 4 wk).  Patients had to be treated for at least 2 wk to be eligible
for the study.  Patients were excluded if they had been on any
anti-tuberculous or any other hepatotoxic drug during the 2-month period
before their hospitalization.  Aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase,
bilirubin, and albumin were obtained at least every 2 wk.  RESULTS:
Hepatocellular toxicity, defined as AST and/or ALT greater than 200 IU/L,
occurred in eight out of 70 (11.4%) patients.  The mean age of these patients
was 38.9 yr (22-58 yr).  Patients with AIDS were significantly more likely to
develop hepatotoxicity than those with any other risk factor (P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS:  Baseline aminotransferases followed by monitoring may be
necessary in AIDS patients."  The corresponding author for this study is:  LA
Ozick, Columbia Univ, Coll Phys & Surg, Harlem Hosp Ctr, Dept Med, Div
Gastroenterol, 506 Lennox Ave, New York, NY 10037 USA.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  Williams & Wilkins, 351
West Camden St, Baltimore, MD 21201-2436.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "45"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Toxoplasma gondii
Kasper, L.H.; Matsuura, T.; Khan, I.A.  "IL-7 Stimulates Protective Immunity
in Mice Against the Intracellular Pathogen, Toxoplasma gondii."  Journal of
Immunology, November 15, 1995;155(10):4798-4804.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Journal of
Immunology, "Cytokines, in particular IFN-gamma and IL-12, are important in
host protection against infection with Toxoplasma gondii.  This parasite is a
major cause of congenital infection and morbidity in immunosuppressed persons,
especially those with AIDS.  IL-7, a monomeric protein produced by bone marrow
stromal cells and fetal thymus, is able to induce the proliferation of pro-B
cells and CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, and to enhance cytotoxicity of CTL and NK
cells, Inbred mice were infected with a lethal dose of T.  gondii and given
IL-7 twice daily.  Mice treated with IL-7 beginning at the time of infection
survived, whereas mice either treated after infection or not treated died.
Phenotypic analysis of splenocytes identified an expansion of NK (asialo
GM1(+)) cells and CD8(+) T-cell populations.  In vivo depletion of NK (asialo
GM1(+)) and CD8(+) T cells showed that cells expressing these phenotypes were
important for maintaining protection against the parasite.  IFN-gamma
depletion resulted in complete reversal of the protective effect of IL-7
administration.  In vivo depletion of endogenous IL-7 enhanced susceptibility
to infection.  Cytokine analysis by semiquantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR
showed that IL-7 enhances the IFN-gamma response and furthermore reverses the
parasite-mediated down-regulatory response on IL-2.  These observations
indicate that exogenous administration of human rIL-7 is able to protect mice
against acute parasite challenge by stimulating IFN-gamma production and
augmenting the CD8(+) T cell-mediated CTL response."  The corresponding author
for this study is:  LH Kasper, Dartmouth Coll, Sch Med, Dept Med, Vail Bldg,
Room 205, Hanover, NH 03755 USA.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Amer Assoc Immunologists, 9650 Rockville Pike,
Bethesda, MD 20814.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "46"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Virology
Huang, Y.X.; Zhang, L.Q.; Ho, D.D.  "Biological Characterization of Nef in
Long-Term Survivors of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 Infection."
Journal of Virology, December 1995;69(12):8142-8146.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Journal of
Virology, "We have previously shown that there were no gross deletions or
obvious sequence abnormalities within nef of human immunodeficiency virus type
1 (HIV-1) in the 10 long-term survivors studied (Y.  Huang, L.  Zhang, and
D.D, Ho, J, Virol, 69:93-100, 1995).  Here we extend our study to examine
these nef alleles in a functional context.  Using a new technique, termed
site-directed gene replacement, we have precisely replaced the nef of an
infectious molecular clone, HIV-1(HXB2), with nef alleles derived from 10
long-term survivors as well as from a patient with AIDS.  The replication
properties of these chimeric viruses demonstrated that the nef alleles derived
from long-term survivors neither significantly increased nor decreased viral
replication, compared with the nef allele of Nef(+) HIV-1(HXB2) and that
derived from a patient with AIDS.  However, Nef(+) viruses always replicated
faster than virus lacking nef.  Moreover, single-cell infection analysis by
the MAGI assay showed that these chimeric viruses, as well as Nef(+)
HIV-1(HXB2), were more infectious than Nef(-) HIV-1(HXB2) was, Therefore, we
conclude that the genotypic and phenotypic features of nef are not likely to
account for the nonprogression of HIV-1 infection in the 10 cases studied,
unless the function of the nef gene in vivo is not accurately reflected by the
in vitro assays we used."  The corresponding author for this study is:  DD Ho,
NYU, Sch Med, Aaron Diamond AIDS Res Ctr, 455 1ST Ave, New York, NY 10016 USA.
For subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Soc
Microbiology, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "47"></A>Copyright
AIDS WEEKLY PLUS via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

MEETINGS REPORT
*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY


January 15-17, 1996, Paris, France, "Cancer, AIDS and Quality of Life:  The
Heart of the Matter."  Information:  Michele Liegeon, AIRMEC, 2 boulevard du
Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France, Phone 33-1-45-66-91-15, Fax
33-1-45-66-50-72.

January 17-23, 1996, Taos, NM, "Molecular Biology of HIV."  Information:
Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO 80498, Phone 303-262-1230,
Fax 303-262-1525.

January 17-18, 1996, Dallas, TX, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

January 17-19, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "Second Annual National Women HIV and
AIDS Summit."  Information:  National Women and HIV/AIDS Project, P.O.  Box
53141, Washington, DC 20009, Phone 202-547-1155, Fax 202-547-5080.

January 19-20, 1996, Englewood, CO, "Strategies/Innovations in Transfusion
Medicine."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

January 25-27, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "Epidemiology and Prevention of
Infectious Diseases."  Information:  Office of Continuing Medical Education,
Room MCB-630, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0742, Phone
415-476-4251.

January 26-27, 1996, Palmetto, FL, "7th Annual:  Until There Is a Cure."
Information:  AIDS Manasota, Inc.  Conference, 2080 Ringling Blvd., Suite 302,
Sarasota, FL 34237-7030, Phone 941-954-6011, Fax 941-951-1721.

* January 28 - February 1, 1996, Washington, DC, "3rd National Conference on
Human Retroviruses and Related Infections."  Information:  Infectious Disease
Society of America 703-299-0200.

January 28 - February 2, 1996, Vail, CO, "Infectious Diseases in Clinical
Practice."  Information:  University of California, Postgraduate Programs,
Department of Medicine, 1383 9th Avenue, UCSF Box 0656, San Francisco, CA
94143-0656, Phone 415-476-5808.

February 2-4, 1996, Newport Beach, CA, "Sixth International Conference on
Lymphocyte Activation and Immune Regulation:  Cell Cycle and Programmed Cell
Death in the Immune System."  Information:  Miss Nancy J.  Doman, Conference
Secretariat, Room C240, Med Sci I/University of California, Irvine, CA
92717-4069, Phone 714-824-5818, Fax 714-824-4362.

February 2-6, 1996, Newport Beach, CA, "6th International Conference on
Lymphocyte Activation and Immune Regulation."  Information:  Ms.  Nancy J.
Doman, Conference Secretariat, Rm.  C240, Med Sci I, University of California,
Irvine, CA 92717-4069, Phone 714-824-5818, Fax 714-824-4362.

February 8-9, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "Advances In Management of Sexually
Transmitted Diseases."  Information:  San Francisco STD/HIV Prevention
Training Center, 1360 Mission St., Ste.  401, San Francisco, CA 94102-2609,
Phone and Fax 415-554-9636, E-mail:  pujo100w@wonder.em.cdc.gov, (Omit final
comma from e-mail address.)

* February 11-15, 1996, Bethesda, MD, "Advances in AIDS Vaccine Development:
Eighth Annual Meeting of the National Cooperative Vaccine Development Groups
(NCVDGs) for AIDS."  Information:  Marta Glass 303-402-0121 or Elaine Matzen
301-496-6177 or Susan Wescott 301-496-8200.

February 12-16, 1996, Denver, CO, "Postgraduate Courses on Clinical Management
and Control of Tuberculosis."  Information:  Catheryne J.  Queen, National
Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, 1400 Jackson St.,
Denver, CO 80206, Phone 303-398-1700, Fax 303-398-1806.

February 13-14, 1996, St.  Louis, MO, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

February 15-16, 1996, Coronado, CA, "Oligonucleotide- & Gene Therapy-Based
Antisense Therapeutics."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

February 15-18, 1996, Geneva, Switzerland, "2nd International Conference on
New Trends in Clinical and Experimental Immunosuppression."  Information:
Secretariat, 2nd International Conference on New Trends in Clinical and
Experimental Immunosuppression, Kuoni Congress, P.O.  Box 1731, 7 Rue de
Berne, CH-1211, Geneva 1, Switzerland, Phone +41 22 908 1811, Fax +41 22 731
5078.

February 16-18, 1996, New York, NY, "Second Annual CME Course for the
Management of the HIV Infected Patient:  A Practical Approach for the Primary
Care Practitioner."  Information:  Center for Bio-Medical Communication, Inc.,
80 West Madison Avenue, Dumont, NJ 07628, Phone 201-385-8080, Fax
201-385-5650.

February 18-21, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "International Conference:
Communicable Diseases as Occupational Hazards - Medical, Biological, Ethical
and Legal Aspects."  Information:  Secretariat, ISAS International Seminars,
P.O.  Box 574, Jerusalem 91004, Israel, Phone 972-2-520574, Fax 972-2-520558,
or 972-2-868165.

February 22, 1996, Washington, DC, "Legal/Ethical Issues of HIV Disease."
Information:  Howard University, College of Medicine, Office of CME, 520 W
Street NW, Washington, DC 20059, Phone 202-806-5620, Fax 202-806-7934.

* February 26-27, 1996, Rockville, MD, "IBC's 3rd Annual Conference on
Vaccines:  New Advances in Technologies and Applications."  Information:  IBC
USA Conferences, Inc., 225 Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone
508-481-6400.

March 1-2, 1996, Chicago, IL, "Tuberculosis and Migration."  Information:
International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, 68, Boulevard
Saint-Michel 75006 Paris, France, Phone 33-1-44.32.03.60, Fax
33-1-43.29.90.87.

March 1-2, 1996, Washington, DC, "Transfusion Practices in HIV Infected
Persons."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 1-5, 1996, Panama City Beach, FL, "Protease and Their Inhibitors in
Cancer."  Information:  American Association for Cancer Research, Public
Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA
19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

March 4-8, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "STD Comprehensive."  Information:  San
Francisco STD/HIV Prevention Training Center, 1360 Mission St., Ste.  401, San
Francisco, CA 94102-2609, Phone and Fax 415-554-9636, E-mail:
pujo100w@wonder.em.cdc.gov, (Omit final comma from e-mail address.)

* March 7-8, 1996, Washington, DC, "IBC's Biennial International Conference on
Mycobacterial Infection:  Pathogenesis, Prevention and Strategies for New Drug
and Vaccine Development."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

March 13-14, 1996, Washington, DC, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 18-21, 1996, Bangkok, Thailand, "International Congress on Drug Therapy
in HIV Infection."  Information:  Jane Fensome, Conference Coordinator, Phone
44 1625615325, Fax 44 1625 616563.

March 19-22, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "8th National AIDS Update Conference."
Information:  NAUC 96 Conference Registrar, c/o KREBS Convention Management
Services, 555 DeHaro Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94107-2348, Phone
415-255-1297, Fax 415-255-2244.

March 20-22, 1996, Lake Buena Vista, FL, "97th Annual Meeting:  American
Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics."  Information:  Elaine
Galasso, Executive Director, ASCPT, 1718 Gallagher Rd., Norristown, PA
19401-2800, Phone 610-825-3838, Fax 610-834-8652

March 21-24, 1996, Atlanta, GA, "Annual Meeting of the Society of Surgical
Oncology."  Information:  James R.  Slawny, Exec.  Dir., SSO, 85 W.  Algonquin
Rd., Ste.  550, Arlington Heights, IL, 60005, Phone 708-427-1400, Fax
708-427-1294.

March 26, 1996, Washington, DC, "Tuberculosis:  What's New in Diagnosis and
Therapy."  Information:  Howard University, College of Medicine, Office of
CME, 520 W Street NW, Washington, DC 20059, Phone 202-806-5620, Fax
202-806-7934.

March 26 - April 1, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "Immunopathogenesis of HIV
Infection."  Information:  Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO
80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

March 27-28, 1996, Washington, DC, "Novel HIV Therapeutic Strategies."
Information:  Cambridge Healthtech Institute, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper
Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1300, Fax 617-630-1325.

March 29-30, 1996, Dallas, TX, "1996 National Blood Inventory Management
Conference."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 29-31, 1996, London, United Kingdom, "Acting on AIDS:  The Institute of
Contemporary Arts & The Terrence Higgins Trust."  Information:  Keith Rudkin
or Helena Reckitt, The Institute of Contemporary Arts, Phone 0171 873 0052.

April 8-9, 1996, Costa Mesa, CA, "Ninth Annual 'HIV/AIDS on the Front Line'
Conference."  Information:  Conference Information Line, 12020 Chapman Ave.,
#339, Garden Grove, CA 92640-3010, Phone 714-834-8020, Fax 714-456-7169.

April 14-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology - Annual Meeting."  Information:  Experimental Biology
1996, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3998, Phone 301-530-7010.

April 17, 1996, Washington, DC, "Substance Abuse and HIV."  Information:
Howard University, College of Medicine, Office of CME, 520 W Street NW,
Washington, DC 20059, Phone 202-806-5620, Fax 202-806-7934.

April 17-19, 1996, Vancouver, Canada, "The Fourth International Nature
Genetics Conference."  Information:  Diana Berger, Conference Services
Manager, Nature America, Inc., 345 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010-1707,
Phone 212-726-9281, Fax 212-696-9594.

April 21-23, 1996, Washington, DC, "The 6th Annual Scientific Meeting of the
Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America."  Information:  Soceity for
Healthcare Epidemiology of America, 875 Kings Highway, Suite 200, Woodbury, NJ
08096-3172, Attention:  Annual Meeting Registration, Phone 609-845-1720, Fax
609-853-0411.

April 22-26, 1996, Denver, CO, "Postgraduate Courses on Clinical Management
and Control of Tuberculosis."  Information:  Catheryne J.  Queen, National
Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, 1400 Jackson St.,
Denver, CO 80206, Phone 303-398-1700, Fax 303-398-1806.

April 26 - May 1, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "Immunopathogenesis of HIV
Infection."  Information:  Keystone SC Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO
80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

* May 3-6, 1996, Washington, DC, "Biomedicine '96:  Medical Research from
Bench to Bedside."  Information:  Editor-in-Chief, National Office 6900 Grove
Road, Thorofare, NJ 08086-9447, Phone 609-848-1000, Fax 609-848-5274.

May 19-23, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "95th American Society for Microbiology
General Meeting."  Information:  American Society for Microbiology, 1325
Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171, Phone 202-737-3600.

June 2-6, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "American Association of
Immunologists/American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology/American
Association of Investigative Pathology."  Information:  Mr.  Raymond Palmer,
Exec.  Dir., AAI, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3994, Phone
301-530-7178, Fax 301-571-1816.

July 7-12, 1996, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "XI International
Conference on AIDS."  Information:  Conference Secretariat, XI International
Conference on AIDS, P.O.  Box 48740, 595 Burrard St., Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada V7X 1T8, Phone 604-631-5210, Fax 604-631-5210, Email:
aids96@hivnet.ubc.ca.

June 10-13, 1996, Hong Kong, "7th International Congress for Infectious
Diseases:  a Collaboration of the World Health Organization, the International
Society for Infectious Diseases and the Dept.  of Microbiology, Faculty of
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong."  Information:  Norman R.
Stein, Exec.  Dir., ISID, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, MA 02115, Phone
617-277-0551, Fax 617-731-1541.

August 11-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "10th International Congress of
Virology."  Information:  Secretariat, 10th Intl.  Cong.  of Virology, P.O.
Box 50006, Tel Aviv 61500, Israel, Phone 972-3-514-0000, Fax
972-3-5175674/514-0077, Telex 341171 KENS IL, E-mail:
virology@kenes.ccmail.compuserve.com.  (Omit final period from e-mail
address.)

* August 25-29, 1996, Singapore, "26th Congress of the International Society
of Haematology."  Information:  ISH 1996 Singapore, c/o CEMS Pte Ltd, 1
Maritime Square, #09-43 World Trade Centre, Singapore 0409, Phone 65-278-8666,
Fax 65-278-4077.

August 27-30, 1996, Nagoya, Japan, "14th International Scientific Meeting of
the International Epidemiological Association:  Global Health in a Changing
Environment."  Information:  14th ISM Secretariat, Dept.  of Preventive
Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku,
Nagoya 466, Japan, Phone 81-52-741-2111, ext.  2074, Fax 81-52-733-6729.

October 9-15, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "New Insights in HIV Infection and
Disease."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper
Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

October 9-15, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "3rd International Conference on
Engineered Vaccines for Cancer and AIDS."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia,
1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax
617-630-1395.

October 14-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "Fifth International Conference on
Human Antibodies and Hybridomas."  Information:  John Herriot, HAH '96
Conference, Meetings Management, The Chestnuts, 1st Floor, 18 East Street,
Farnham, Surrey GU9 7SD, UK, Phone +44 (0)1252 726066, Fax +44 (0)1252 723303.

June 8-13, 1997, Parma, Italy, " 13th Congress of the International Society
for Human and Animal Mycology."  Information:  Conference Secretariat, Imedex
USA Inc., 1060 Cambridge Square, Ste.  D., Alpharetta, GA 30201, Phone
404-751-7332, Fax 404-751-7334, E-mail:  imedex@aol.com.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-5</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-165</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh44.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022017 text/html 124955
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:17:29 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:17 GMT
Content-length: 124765
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh44.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet <BR>
December 25, 1995 & January 1<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS REPORTS . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Blood Banking (Chagas Disease)&nbsp;Donors with T. cruzi Pose Threat to Public Health</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(455 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Blood Banking (Donors)&nbsp;January 1996 "National Volunteer Blood Donor Month"</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1283 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Transplantation (BMT)&nbsp;HLA-Matched Unrelated Donors Are Good Option for CML Patients</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(546 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>Transplantation (Cord Blood)&nbsp;Improved Methods Address Storage and Cell Viability Challenges</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(768 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>Emerging Diseases&nbsp;Could Rabies-Like Diseases Enter the U.S.?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1818 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Encephalitis&nbsp;Microsphere Formulation Improves Encephalitis Vaccine</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(789 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Human Papillomavirus (Diagnostics)&nbsp;Serum Antibody to HPV-16 VLPs Indicates Cervical HPV-16 Infection</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(626 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Industry News (Blood Substitutes)&nbsp;Hemolink Phase II Trials to Begin in 1996</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(763 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>Industry News (Blood Substitutes) &nbsp;PEG-Hemoglobin Cleared for Multi-Dose/Multi-Center Trial in Cancer Patients </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(450 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Industry News (Joint Venture)&nbsp;Anticancer Drug Licensing/Research Agreement Signed</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(376 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Industry News (Joint Venture)&nbsp;Marketing Agreement Announced for Cancer Test</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(227 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>Industry News (Patents and Technology)&nbsp;Leukonet Filter Device Removes Contaminating Leukocytes from Transfusion Blood</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(228 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Preventive Medicine&nbsp;Experts Call for More Counseling/Better Screening</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(993 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>Tissue Banking&nbsp;Storage of Tissues Leads to Ethical Dilemmas</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(643 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>Xenotransplantation&nbsp;Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>RESEARCH FROM CONFERENCES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Complications of Anticoagulant Therapy:  CT Findings."  E.S.  Pretorius and&nbsp;E.K.  Fishman.  Baltimore, Maryland.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(141 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Serum Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST) Values as a Useful Predictor for the&nbsp;Histologic Features of Chronic Hepatitis C Infection in Adults."  N.  Assy and&nbsp;G.Y.  Minuk.  Liver Diseases Unit and Liver Diseases Research Laboratory,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(309 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"What Serologic Tests are Necessary Before a Liver Biopsy in Patients with&nbsp;Hepatitis C (HCV)?."  P.G.  Quinn, D.E.  Wheeler, M.M.  Jamal and A.&nbsp;Sonnenberg.  Departments of Medicine and Pathology, University of New Mexico</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(328 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>Diagnostics (HCV)&nbsp;"HCV-Viremia in Serum and Liver Tissue of Anti-HCV Positive Subjects:&nbsp;Correlation with ALT and Liver Histology."  M.  Persico, V.  Nigro, E.&nbsp;Persico, L.  Gesue, S.  Conte, I.  de Sio, S.  Gentile and R.  Torella.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(255 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Diagnostics (HCV)&nbsp;"Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes, RNA Titer and Liver Histology in Volunteer Blood&nbsp;Donors with Different Alanine Aminotransferase Profile."  F.E.  Radagli and E.&nbsp;Carigni.  Hospital of Brescia, Italy; Blood Transfusion Service, Hospital of</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(262 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>Epidemiology&nbsp;"Liver Biopsy Discloses Occult Chronic Viral Hepatitis 'C' (HCV) in Young&nbsp;Asymptomatic Blood Donors in Southern Brazil."  S.G.S.  Barros, M.R.&nbsp;Vasconcellos, C.A.  Arruda, L.T.  Cavozzola, M.A.  Chies, G.S.P.  Madruga,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(355 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>Gene Targeting (Stem Cells)&nbsp;"Targeting of the Dopamine D[3] Receptor Gene in Embryonic Stem Cells:&nbsp;Enrichment for Homologous Recombination by Destabilizing Selection Marker&nbsp;Transcripts from Random Integration Sites."  B.V.  Skryabin and C.  Schmauss.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(263 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>Pathogenesis (HCV)&nbsp;"Histological Progression of Chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Infection in&nbsp;Untreated Asymptomatic Blood Donors."  M.M.  Ahmed, E.  Elias, K.  O'Donnell,&nbsp;J.  Shaw, F.  Kennedy, R.F.  Harrison, F.A.  Ala, H.  Atrah and D.J.  Mutimer.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(278 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>JOURNAL ARTICLE SUMMARIES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>Blood Banking (Storage)&nbsp;Murphy, S.; Shimizu, T.; Miripol, J.  "Platelet Storage for Transfusion in&nbsp;Synthetic Media:  Further Optimization of Ingredients and Definition of Their&nbsp;Roles."  Blood, November 15, 1995;86(10):3951-3960.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(551 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>Hemophilia (HCV)&nbsp;Tagariello, G.; Pontisso, P.; Davoli, P.G.; Ruvoletto, M.G.; Traldi, A.;&nbsp;Alberti, A.  "Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes and Severity of Chronic Liver&nbsp;Disease in Haemophiliacs."  British Journal of Haematology, November</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(266 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>Hemophilia (HCV)&nbsp;Chambost, H.; Gerolami, V.; Halfon, P.; Thuret, I.; Michel, G.; Sicardi, F.;&nbsp;Rousseau, S.; Perrimond, H.; Cartouzou, G.  "Persistent Hepatitis C Virus RNA&nbsp;Replication in Haemophiliacs:  Role of Co-Infection with Human</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(228 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><LI>Tissue Banking (Ocular)&nbsp;Moyes, A.L.; Holland, E.J.; Palmon, F.E.; Dvorak, J.A.; Doughman, D.J.&nbsp;"Tissue Utilization at the Minnesota Lions' Eye Bank."  Cornea, November&nbsp;1995;14(6):571-577.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(318 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>Transfusion (Wound Drainage Blood)&nbsp;Southern, E.P.; Huo, M.H.; Mehta, J.R.; Keggi, K.J.  "Unwashed Wound Drainage&nbsp;Blood:  What Are We Giving Our Patients?"  Clinical Orthopaedics and Related&nbsp;Research, November 1995;(320):235-246.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(320 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>MEETINGS REPORT&nbsp;*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1773 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Blood Banking (Chagas Disease)
Donors with T. cruzi Pose Threat to Public Health


Trypanosoma cruzi (T.  cruzi), the cause of Chagas disease, may be a
considerable public health problem in parts of the United States.

Almost one in 5,700 blood donors in Miami, Florida and nearly one in 11,600 in
Los Angeles, California were seropositive for T.  cruzi antibodies in a
large-scale seroepidemiological study, said D.A.  Leiby, Transmissible
Diseases Department, American Red Cross, Rockville, Maryland, and colleagues
("Seroprevalence of Trypanosoma Cruzi-Antibodies in a Subpopulation of
American Red Cross Blood Donors," abstract 387, American Journal of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene, 1995;53(2):215).

"Despite the absence of demonstrated T.  cruzi transmission by transfusion,
the finding of seroreactive donors suggests that a significant public health
problem may exist," Leiby et al.  wrote in their presentation abstract.  They
presented their findings at the 44th Annual Meeting of the American Society of
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, San Antonio, Texas, November 17-21, 1995.

The study was performed with the Southern California and the South Florida
Regions of the American Red Cross and Abbott Laboratories.

All volunteer blood donors in the Los Angeles and Miami Red Cross blood
centers were asked a question about their place of birth or amount of time
spent in regions endemic for T.  cruzi.  Those donors who answered "yes" and a
control group were tested for the presence of T.  cruzi antibodies by EIA
(manufactured by Abbott Laboratories).

The researchers confirmed by RIPA those samples that were repeatedly reactive
by EIA.  They then entered into case-control and look-back investigations
those donors who were confirmed T.  cruzi seroreactive.

Of the donors questioned about risk, 7.4 percent (14,480/196,832) in Los
Angeles and 11 percent (1,868/17,043) in Miami responded yes.  Of these who
answered affirmatively, 20 were confirmed by RIPA (17 donors in Los Angeles;
three in Miami).  Among these 20 individuals, the risk factor they all shared
was birth in and extended residence in a country endemic for T.  cruzi.

A look-back investigation of eight patients who previously had received blood
from the infected donors showed that none of the blood recipients had
transfusion-transmitted T.  cruzi.

While none of the blood recipients in this particular study had
transfusion-transmitted T.  cruzi infection, there are documented reports of
three cases of transfusion-transmitted Chagas disease in the United States and
one case in Canada (according to a report by Ira A.  Schulman, M.D., Director
of Transfusion Medicine, LA County/USC Medical Center, delivered at the Blood
Safety & Screening Conference, October 23-25, 1995, Washington, D.C.).

Within the past 25 years, millions of immigrants have come to the United
States from countries where T.  cruzi is endemic.

Since 1991, an estimated 100,000 individuals infected with T.  cruzi reside in
North America.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Blood Banking (Donors)
January 1996 "National Volunteer Blood Donor Month"


The American Association of Blood Banks (AABB), along with the American Red
Cross (ARC) and the Council of Community Blood Centers (CCBC), announced that
President Bill Clinton has proclaimed January 1996 as "National Volunteer
Blood Donor Month."

Each year, approximately eight million volunteer donors give about 14 million
units of blood to those in need.  These units are transfused to as many as
four million patients annually.

"Society depends upon healthy blood donors who choose to graciously give of
themselves each day to help others.  The AABB applauds these civic-minded men
and women as 'heroes.' What greater gift can mankind share than that of
life-saving blood," said Roger K.  Svoboda, president, AABB.

In his proclamation, President Clinton declared, "Perhaps the most noble form
of charity is the gift we give anonymously to a stranger in need.  Donating
blood offers us this opportunity.  In a fast, safe, and simple procedure, we
can literally give life to someone in our community who is suffering from
illness or injury.  During this special month, I strongly encourage all my
fellow Americans who are able to do so to take an hour from their day to
donate blood."

For 1996, the AABB has chosen "Be a Hero.  Be a Blood Donor!"  as its campaign
theme.  The association will again have celebrity spokesperson, Carol Burnett,
encourage regular blood donations from healthy first-time and repeat donors.
Insurance giant MetLife, winner of the AABB 1994 Outstanding Achievement Award
for its promotion and support of blood donation on a nationwide basis, has
joined forces with AABB to promote "National Volunteer Blood Donor Month."

During January 1996, a MetLife print campaign will appear in nationally
syndicated newspapers of the Peanuts cartoon character Snoopy hoarding cookies
with the slogan, "Give Blood.  Get Cookies."

FACTS ABOUT BLOOD AND BLOOD BANKING

HOW MUCH BLOOD IS DONATED EACH YEAR?  HOW MUCH BLOOD IS TRANSFUSED EACH YEAR?
About 14 million units (including approximately one million autologous
donations) of blood are donated each year by approximately eight million
volunteer blood donors.  These units are transfused to as many as four million
patients per year.

A unit of whole blood is roughly equivalent to a pint.  Adult males have about
12 pints of blood in their circulatory systems, and adult females have
approximately nine pints.  Each unit is usually separated into multiple
components, which may be transfused to a number of different individuals.  Up
to four components can be derived from one unit of blood.

The need for blood is great - on any given day, approximately 40,000 units of
red blood cells are needed.  Accident cases, people undergoing surgery, and
patients receiving treatment for leukemia, cancer or other diseases, such as
sickle cell disease and thalassemia, all utilize blood.  More than 23 million
units of blood components are transfused every year.

WHO DONATES BLOOD?  Less than 5 percent of healthy Americans eligible to
donate blood actually donate each year.

According to studies, the average donor is a college-educated white male,
between the ages of 30 and 50, who is married and has an above-average income.
However, these statistics are changing, and women and minority groups are
volunteering to donate in increasing numbers.

While persons 65 years and older compose 13 percent of the population, they
use 25 percent of all blood units transfused.  Using current screening and
donation procedures, a growing number of blood banks have found blood donation
by the elderly to be safe and practical.

WHERE IS BLOOD DONATED?  There are many places where blood donations can be
made.  Bloodmobiles travel to high schools, colleges, churches, and community
organizations.  People can also donate at community blood centers and
hospital-based donor centers.

Many people donate at blood drives at their place of work.  Community blood
centers collect approximately 88 percent of the nation's blood, and
hospital-based donor centers account for the other 12 percent.  Consult the
yellow pages to locate a nearby blood center or hospital to donate.

WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA FOR BLOOD DONATION?  To be eligible to donate blood, a
person must generally be at least 17 years of age (although some states permit
younger people to donate with parental consent); be in good health; and weigh
at least 110 pounds.  Most blood banks have no upper age limit.  All donors
must pass the physical and health history examinations given prior to
donation.

Nearly all blood used for transfusion in the United States is drawn from
volunteer donors.  The donor's body replenishes the fluid lost from donation
in 24 hours.  It may take up to two months to replace the lost red blood
cells.  Whole blood can be donated every eight weeks.

An increasingly common procedure is apheresis, or the process of removing a
specific component of the blood and returning the red blood cells to the
donor.  This process allows more of a particular component - platelets, for
instance - to be drawn in one sitting than could be separated from a unit of
whole blood.  Apheresis is also performed to collect plasma and granulocytes.

WHAT IS THE MOST COMMON BLOOD TYPE?  The approximate distribution of blood
types in the U.S.  population is as follows.  Distribution may be different
for specific racial and ethnic groups:

*  O    Rh-positive    38 percent
*  O    Rh-negative    7 percent
*  A    Rh-positive    34 percent
*  A    Rh-negative    6 percent
*  B    Rh-positive    9 percent
*  B    Rh-negative    2 percent
*  AB    Rh-positive    3 percent
*  AB    Rh-negative    1 percent

In an emergency, anyone can receive type O red blood cells, and type AB
individuals can receive red blood cells of any ABO group.  Therefore, people
with type O blood are known as "universal donors" and those with AB blood as
universal recipients."

WHAT TESTS ARE PERFORMED ON DONATED BLOOD?  After blood is drawn, it is tested
for ABO group and Rh type, as well as for any unexpected antibodies that may
cause problems in the recipient.  Screening tests are also performed for
hepatitis B surface antigen (HbsAg), the hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc)
and the hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV), and for antibodies to HIV (anti-HIV-1
and HIV-2), the human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1), and syphilis.

HOW IS BLOOD STORED AND USED?  Each unit of blood is normally separated into
several components.  Red blood cells may be stored under refrigeration for a
maximum of 42 days, or they may be frozen for up to ten years.  Red cells
carry oxygen and are commonly used to treat anemia.

Platelets are important in the control of bleeding and are used in patients
with leukemia and other forms of cancer.  Platelets may be kept for a maximum
of five days.  Granulocytes established.  They must be transfused within 24
hours of donation.  Plasma, used to control bleeding, is usually kept in the
frozen state for up to one year.  Cryoprecipitated AHF, which contains
clotting factors, is made from fresh-frozen plasma and may be stored frozen
for one year.

Other products manufactured from blood include albumin, immune globulin,
specific immune globulins and clotting factor concentrates.  These blood
products are commonly made by commercial manufacturers.

HOW MUCH DOES BLOOD COST?  While donated blood is free, and most blood
collecting organizations (blood centers as well as collecting hospitals) are
not-for-profit, there are significant costs associated with collecting,
storing, testing, and transfusing blood.  As a result, processing fees are
charged to recover costs.  Processing fees for red blood cells vary and may be
more than $100 per unit in certain parts of the country.  The national average
is between $65 and $75.  Other components may be more expensive.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transplantation (BMT)
HLA-Matched Unrelated Donors Are Good Option for CML Patients


Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from HLA-matched volunteer unrelated donors
(VUDs) can cure a significant number of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML).

For patients with CML, allogeneic BMT is established as an effective means to
restore normal hematopoiesis.  However, the lack of a suitable HLA-identical
sibling has led to more frequent use of VUDs.  Compared with HLA-identical
sibling donor BMT, VUD BMT has been associated with greater morbidity and
mortality, especially because of greater rates of graft-versus-host disease
(GVHD) and graft failure.

Andrew Spencer, Leukemia Research Fund Center for Adult Leukemia, Royal
Postgraduate Medical School, London, England, and colleagues performed an
analysis of the outcome of VUD BMT in 115 patients with CML at their
institution ("Bone Marrow Transplantation for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia with
Volunteer Unrelated Donors Using Ex Vivo or In Vivo T-Cell Depletion:  Major
Prognostic Impact of HLA Class I Identity between Donor and Recipient," Blood,
1995;86(9):3590-3597).

Their aim was to identify which patients are most likely to benefit from VUD
BMT.

"We have demonstrated that VUD BMT can cure a significant number of
appropriately selected patients with CML," wrote Spencer et al.  They added
that the availability of high-resolution tissue typing techniques enables more
accurate predictions of outcome after VUD BMT.  The use of such methods should
allow the more appropriate use of VUD BMT in managing CML.

"In young, chronic phase patients lacking an HLA-matched sibling, a search for
an unrelated donor should be commenced immediately," wrote Spencer et al.  "If
a potential donor, matched using high-resolution typing techniques, is
identified, BMT should be considered as soon as possible."

Spencer et al.  performed 115 VUD BMT for first chronic phase or advanced
phase CML between August 1985 and July 1994.  They supplemented standard
serologic HLA typing of recipients and potential donors with one-dimensional
isoelectric focusing (IEF) for class I proteins, allogenotyping for DR and DQ
alleles using DNA restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and
the measurement of antirecipient major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte precursor cells in the donors' blood (CTLp assay).

The overall leukemia-free survival (LFS) at three years was 37 percent.  The
probabilities of survival and LFS for patients under the age of 40 years who
were transplanted in the first chronic phase from an IEF-matched donor were 73
percent and 50 percent, respectively.

"We conclude that VUD BMT is a reasonable option for patients with CML; when
using ex vivo or in vivo T-cell depletion, optimal results are achieved in
patients transplanted in chronic phase with marrow from donors without
demonstrable class I HLA mismatch and a low CTLp frequency," wrote Spencer et
al.

The current study showed an association between graft failure and increasing
donor age that has not been recognized before.  The graft failure rate of 16
percent reported by Spender et al.  corresponds to that reported by other
researchers (McGlave et al., Blood, 1990;75:1728; McGlave et al., Blood,
1993;81:543).

Researchers have indicated that about two-thirds of patients, otherwise
eligible for BMT, lack a matched sibling donor (Beatty et al.,
Transplantation, 1988;45:714).

The corresponding author for this study is Andrew Spencer, LRF Centre for
Adult Leukaemia, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Du Cane Road, London W12
ONN, United Kingdom.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transplantation (Cord Blood)
Improved Methods Address Storage and Cell Viability Challenges


Recent processing improvements should make frozen placental/umbilical cord
blood (PCB) a more useful source of hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow
reconstitution.

Pablo Rubinstein and colleagues, Lindsley F.  Kimball Research Institute of
the New York Blood Center, New York, New York, addressed two key requirements
for moving unrelated-donor PCB transplantation forward as a practical
alternative for clinical use ("Processing and Cryopreservation of
Placental/Umbilical Cord Blood for Unrelated Bone Marrow Reconstitution,"
Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  USA, 1995;92(22):10119-10122).

First, they developed a method that maximizes freezer storage space by
concentrating the hematopoietic cells of PCB units into units of smaller
volume.  Second, they developed a method to overcome loss of viability
associated with cryopreservation and thawing.

In the unrelated donor/recipient setting, human leukocyte antigen
(HLA)-matched donors must be obtained for candidate patients.  This requires
the establishment of large panels of frozen HLA-typed PCB units, noted
Rubinstein et al.  This effort typically involves a large volume of
unprocessed PCB units consisting primarily of red blood cells, plasma and
cryopreservation medium, which take up limited, expensive frozen storage space
in liquid nitrogen.

Rubinstein et al.  designed a closed-system procedure, compatible with routine
blood bank processing, that concentrates almost all the leukocytes and
progenitor cells in PCB units.  The procedure is based on a hydroxyethyl
starch (HES)-induced rouleaux formation and mild centrifugation to separate a
leukocyte-rich supernatant from sedimented red blood cells.

"Since the probability of finding an HLA-matched unit depends on the number of
units available and since the number of units that can be stored in a given
space is determined by the average unit volume, smaller PCB units are
essential for PCB to become a practical source of tissue for unrelated
transplantation," wrote Rubinstein et al.

Decreasing the volume of PCB units by removing the bulk of red blood cells and
plasma offers practical advantages such as convenience, cost and efficiency,
compared with current options.

The second issue - reduced cell viability after the cryopreserved PCB units
are thawed - was diminished by adding one volume of isotonic diluent to the
cell suspension in 10 percent dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO).

Dilution of the freshly thawed cryopreserved unit with an equal volume of
isotonic solution allows the product to be thawed and prepared for infusion
under controlled laboratory conditions instead of at the patient's bedside,
noted the researchers.

"Removal of the cryoprotective medium can be performed there [the laboratory
setting], without harm to the units:  clonogenic activity and viability remain
essentially unchanged, even if removal of diluted DMSO is delayed for several
hours," wrote Rubinstein et al.

Removing DMSO eliminates its unfavorable side effects on the recipient
(Stroncek et al., Transfusion, 1991;31:521-526; Davis et al., Blood,
1990;75:781-786).

"These improvements make frozen PCB a more effective source of stem cells for
unrelated marrow reconstitution in the treatment of inherited disease and
hematologic malignancy and, potentially, for recombinant DNA-based gene
therapy," wrote Rubinstein et al.

The same procedure to minimize loss of viability might be used in the
cryopreservation process for bone marrow and peripheral blood stem and
progenitor cells.  It also may be possible to remove malignant cells or to
introduce chemical or genetic labels into cells before infusion.

Numerous advantages in using PCB as donor tissue for unrelated bone marrow
restoration have been reported, including timely availability of PCB to
patients and lower frequency of certain infections, as described in an earlier
published review (Rubinstein et al., Blood, 1993;7:1679-1690).

Another significant advantage of PCB grafts is their remarkably lower
incidence of associated graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a major cause of
morbidity and mortality in bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients (Sullivan,
in Bone Marrow Transplantation, eds.  Forman, Blume & Thomas, 1994, Blackwell,
Boston, pp.  339-362).

In February 1993 the New York Blood Center's Placental Blood Project started
collecting PCB units to study the clinical usefulness of this source of stem
cells (Rubinstein, Blood Cells, 1994;20:587-600).  Of the 24 patients who
received PCB grafts before February 26, 1995, 12 still were alive and doing
well as of March 30, 1995.  None of the recipients developed clinically severe
GVHD within follow-up periods of 2 to 18 months.

This work was supported in part by Grant HL 48031 from the National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health, and by grants
from Baxter Health Care and Citibank.

The corresponding author for this study is Pablo Rubinstein, Laboratory of
Immunogenetics, Lindsley F.  Kimball Research Institute of the New York Blood
Center, 310 East 67th Street, New York, New York 10021.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG


Many institutions conducting AIDS clinical trials have been unable to find and
keep study participants.

A study of 28 institutions participating in U.S.  government-sponsored
clinical trials showed that 18 of the sites (64 percent) failed to meet their
patient accrual goals.

The study, conducted by Washington University researcher Michael Klebert and
colleagues, was presented at the Twentieth AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington, D.C.  The ACTG Patient Care
Committee, a resource committee of the ACTG executive committee, performed the
study.

"Adequate recruitment and retention are essential in conducting successful
clinical trials," Klebert said.

Of 35 participating ACTG sites queried anonymously, 28 participated in the
study.  Except that they tended to be located on the east coast,
nonparticipating sites were not significantly different in terms of size or
patient demographics from participating institutions.

Surprisingly, the study found that the number of recruitment strategies used
by a study site was not related to meeting recruitment and retention goals.

Strategies positively correlated with successful patient recruitment and
retention were provision of child care, education of patients, provision of
peer advocates for patients, and payment via cash or vouchers.  Provision of
support groups was negatively correlated with success.

More than half of the sites identified study design as a barrier to
recruitment.  Nearly 40 percent of the sites said that barriers to successful
recruitment were lack of outreach and cultural sensitivity.

The sites with the worst recruitment/retention problems tended not to combine
primary care with study-protocol visits.  But high proportions of minority
patients or high proportions of patients using intravenous drugs was not
associated with poor recruitment or retention.

The major barriers to patient retention were the use of unpopular or too many
drugs in the study, high frequency of visits, and the availability of
alternative drugs.

Based on the study findings, Klebert made several recommendations to improve
patient recruitment and retention:

*  Combine primary care and research visits.
*  Promote a strong relationship between the study nurse and patients.
*  Provide transportation to the study site.
*  Ask patients about factors that might interfere with their participation.
*  Design studies to address retention problems.
*  Study identified problem sites in detail.
 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Emerging Diseases
Could Rabies-Like Diseases Enter the U.S.?


Rabies-like diseases could cause epidemics in the U.S.  if infected animals
are imported from endemic areas, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) researchers warn.

Although each year rabies kills 40,000 to 100,000 people worldwide, only one
or two deaths occur in the U.S.  due to widespread vaccination of domestic
animals, effective (but costly) post-exposure treatment (PET), and recent
programs to vaccinate wild animals.

This reduction in mortality is expensive:  the U.S.  rabies prevention program
costs an estimated $230 million to $1 billion in public and private expenses
per year, reported Charles E.  Rupprecht and colleagues of the CDC in a recent
publication ("The Ascension of Wildlife Rabies:  A Cause for Public Health
Concern or Intervention?"  Emerging Infectious Diseases, 1995;1(4):107ff).

But little-understood cousins of the rabies virus that exist outside the U.S.
are at best only marginally susceptible to rabies vaccine.  Either accidental
or intentional importation of infected animals to non-endemic areas raise the
animal reservoir - for most if not all of these viruses are from various
species of bats.

"Infections with non-rabies lyssaviruses have resulted in rabies vaccine
failures," Rupprecht et al.  noted.  "Such infections raise the specter of
potentially serious public health consequences if introduced and subsequently
established in susceptible bat populations."

Members of the Lyssavirus genus are a group of genetically related
negative-stranded RNA viruses.  The viruses that cause rabies are the
rhabdoviridae, found everywhere except for Australia, Antarctica, and some
isolated islands.  Other Lyssaviruses include:

* Mokola virus.  The reservoir for this virus is unknown, but Rupprecht et al.
suggest that it may be some type of insectivore or rodent as it was first
isolated in a species of shrew trapped in 1968 in the Mokola Forest outside
Ibadan, Nigeria; bushveld gerbils in Zimbabwe were found to be seropositive.
Cases have occurred in Nigeria, South Africa, Cameroon, Zimbabwe, Central
African Republic, and Ethiopia.  There have been two documented human
infections.  Rabies vaccine does not protect against this virus.

* Lagosbat virus.  The reservoir for this virus is thought to be fruit bats.
Only 10 cases have been identified thus far, three in domestic animals, in
Nigeria, South Africa, Zimbabwe, the Central African Republic, Senegal, and
Ethiopia.  No human deaths are documented.  Rabies virus offers only marginal
protection.

* Duvenhage virus.  The reservoir for this virus is not known, but is
suspected to be insect-eating bats.  Cases have occurred in South Africa,
Zimbabwe, and Senegal.  The virus is named after a man from Pretoria, South
Africa who in 1970 developed rabies-like encephalitis after being bitten by a
bat.  The patient died.  No cases in domestic animals have been identified.
Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

* European bat Lyssavirus 1 (EBLV1).  The reservoir for this virus is a
European insectivorous bat, most likely Eptesicus serotinus.  One human case
was documented in 1985, another was suspected in 1977.  Although the virus has
been found in more than 400 bats, no cases in domestic animals have been
identified.  Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

* European bat Lyssavirus 2 (EBLV2).  The reservoirs for this virus is again a
European insectivorous bat, most likely Mytotis dasycneme.  The virus was
first identified in a Swiss bat biologist working in Finland who died of a
rabies-like illness.  Of the five known cases, none have occurred in domestic
animals.  Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

"The distances between Africa, Eurasia, Pacific Oceania, and the New World
mitigate against the dispersal, migration, and introduction of healthy bats
without human intervention," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.  "However, several
recent events illustrate the opportunity for the transoceanic transfer of
rabies-infected bats."

These events include:

* Research institutions.  There have been two close calls in research
facilities.  Canadian researchers in 1986 shipped a live big brown bat
(Eptesicus fuscus) to German associates.  The bat became ill was diagnosed
with rabies.  In 1994, a Massachusetts research team collected 12 wild big
brown bats and sent them to Danish researchers.  Six of the bats died of
rabies.

* Commercial enterprises.  A big brown bat was captured in Hawaii on a
container ship carrying automobiles from Michigan.  The bat was rabid.

* Legal or illegal importation of animals.  Improperly issued federal permits
in 1994 permitted import to the U.S.  of thousands of bats, mostly Egyptian
tomb bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus).  Normally, sales of imported bats or their
offspring are prohibited by federal law except by research institutions or
zoos where contact with the public is limited.  Such bats are normally
subjected to extended quarantine.  The CDC warns people who own imported bats
to prevent contact with humans.

"Although no reports of lyssaviruses isolated from Egyptian fruit bats exist,
active surveillance for such viruses has not been conducted," Rupprecht et al.
warned.  "These bats are relatively common and widespread throughout the area
that extends from Turkey and Cyprus to Pakistan, the Arabian peninsula, Egypt,
and most of sub-Saharan Africa.  Because they may roost by the thousands in a
wide variety of habitats, there is ample opportunity for interaction with
other Chiroptera, such as the widely distributed straw-colored (Eidolon
helvum) or epauletted (Epomophorus wahlbergi) fruit bats; both of these
species have been implicated in Lyssavirus epizootiology in Africa.

"The adaptability of Egyptian fruit bats should be a cause for concern because
of the potential for survival and interaction among indigenous bat fauna,
particularly in the southern United States."

Such a disaster would not be the first importation of a lyssavirus to the
United States.  While folklore recounts tales of bat-spread disease prior to
European colonization of the New World, the importation of dogs and red foxes
for the sport of fox hunting led to widespread epizootics.

When rabies became a nationally reported disease in 1938, limited surveillance
revealed 9,412 cases per year - mostly in domestic animals - with 47 human
deaths.  Rabies control efforts for pet dogs began in the 1920s and by 1960
rabies occurred more often in wild than in domestic animals.

From 1961 to 1989, skunks were the primary U.S.  reservoir for rabies but they
were then supplanted by raccoons, probably boosted by transport of infected
animals from southern states.

Along with this change in animal vectors, the human epidemiology of rabies has
changed.  Until 1965, most up to 80 percent of human cases occurred after a
known exposure, usually a dog bite.  But in the last 10 years - with the 1975
advent of a more effective canine vaccine - rabies deaths occurred in people
who had no history of an animal bite.

"Almost all the recent human cases occurred after an animal exposure that was
unrecognized by the patient as carrying a risk for rabies infection,"
Rupprecht et al.  wrote.  "The apparent source of human rabies has also
changed:  14 of the 18 cases acquired in the United States since 1980 involved
rabies variants associated with insectivorous bats."

As noted above, the cost of rabies protection is high.  Rupprecht et al.
noted that the New York State rabies diagnostic laboratory received 3,000
submissions in 1989, but received 12,000 submissions in 1993 after the
epizootic of raccoon rabies reached the state.

"The cost per human life saved from rabies ranges from approximately $10,000
to $100 million, depending on the nature of the exposure and the probability
of rabies in a region," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.

"What's more, most economic analyses do not take into account the
psychological trauma caused by human exposure to rabies, the subsequent
euthanasia of pets, or the loss of wildlife resources during rabies outbreaks.
Rabies in wildlife has now reached historically high levels in the United
States, and the costs of preventing human rabies are mounting."

Rupprecht, chief of the CDC Rabies Section, and colleagues argue strongly
against population reduction of animal vectors for rabies on ecological,
economic, and ethical grounds.  They instead promote oral vaccination programs
for wildlife, a concept first proposed in the 1960s by the CDC.

"Oral rabies vaccination of the red fox with vaccine-laden baits is an
integral aspect of rabies control throughout southeastern Canada and Europe,
where more than 75 million doses of vaccine have been distributed over 5
million km(2) during the past two decades," they wrote.  "Consequently, rabies
incidence among wild and domestic animals has fallen, as have PETS for human
rabies."

However, the shift of the epizootic from foxes to raccoons required an
extensive laboratory and field research effort, as the vaccines effective for
foxes were ineffective for raccoons and coyotes.

"In 1983, a vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein (V-RG) recombinant virus vaccine was
developed that has proven to be an effective oral immunogen in raccoons and
various other important reservoir species; vaccine advantages include improved
thermostability and an inability to cause rabies," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.
"When vaccine-laden baits are offered under natural conditions, contact with
them by nontarget wildlife species cannot be totally excluded.  However,
studies of V-RG virus have shown no vaccine-associated morbidity, mortality,
or gross pathologic lesions in more than 40 warm-blooded vertebrate species
examined."

An efficacy field trial of the V-RG vaccine took place in Cape May, New
Jersey, between spring 1992 and autumn 1994.  Nearly 100,000 fishmeal baits
laced with vaccine were distributed over 56,000 hectares both by hand and by
helicopter.  Overall rabies incidence and rate of spread was significantly
reduced.

Although oral wildlife vaccination programs are currently in Massachusetts,
New York, Florida, and southern Texas, Rupprecht et al.  noted that there are
many questions yet to be answered:

* What is the optimal ratio of animal population density to bait density?

* What level of herd immunity will be required to eliminate rabies?

* What is the best way to distribute the vaccine bait?

* How can the methods successful for foxes and raccoons be adapted to rabies
control in species such as skunks, mongooses, and dogs?

* Who will fund these programs over time?

* What do rabies control and prevention efforts really cost?

"Given the problems inherent in wildlife control, the greater issue of
extending these methods to the control of dog rabies in the developing world
will be a challenge well into the next century," Rupprecht et al.  concluded.

The following CDC researchers contributed to this report:  Charles E.
Rupprecht, V.M.D., Ph.D., chief of the Rabies Section; Jean S.  Smith, M.S.,
research microbiologist; Makonnen Fekadu, D.V.M., Ph.D., research veterinary
medical officer; and James E.  Childs, Sc.D., chief of the Epidemiology
Section, Viral and Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch, Division of Viral and
Rickettsial Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.

The corresponding author for this study is Charles E.  Rupprecht, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd., Mailstop G33, Atlanta, GA
30333, USA; fax 404-639-1058; e-mail cyr5@ciddvd1.em.cdc.gov.

- by Daniel J.  DeNoon, Senior Editor





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Encephalitis
Microsphere Formulation Improves Encephalitis Vaccine


Mouse studies show that it may be possible to make a safe vaccine against a
deadly form of viral encephalitis.

Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis (VEE) virus - an alphavirus of the family
Togaviridae - is spread by mosquitoes and can cause fatal human infections
during epizootics among horses.

The most effective vaccine against VEE virus is the live attenuated Trinidad
donkey strain TC-83.  But not only do 20 percent of vaccinated humans and
animals fail to develop neutralizing antibody titers to TC-83, evidence
suggests that the vaccine may cause birth defects and diabetes.  Moreover,
there is concern that the vaccine strain could revert to its virulent form.

The alternative to TC-83 is the formalin-killed whole virus vaccine C-84.
While this vaccine is safe, it is far less effective than the live attenuated
vaccine and requires multiple injections for induction of immunity.

Now researcher Terrence E.  Greenway of the University of Alabama, Birmingham,
and colleagues have developed a microsphere delivery system for killed VEE
virus that is apparently both safe and immunogenic.  They reported their
results in the journal Vaccine ("Enhancement of Protective Immune Responses to
Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis (VEE) Virus with Microencapsulated Vaccine,"
Vaccine, 1995;13(15):1411-20).

"The microencapsulated VEE virus vaccine induced systemic immune responses
which were higher and persisted longer than those induced with the free virus
vaccine," Greenway et al.  wrote.  "The microencapsulated virus was more
effective than the free virus in inducing immune responses protective against
systemic challenge with virulent VEE virus."

Biodegradable polymer microspheres were developed over the last decade as a
means of releasing contraceptive steroids.  Vaccinologists were quick to see
the potential benefits of this technology.

"Microsphere technology has the potential benefits of reducing the number of
inoculations, enhancing the immune response via both parenteral and oral
vaccination routes, and in reducing the total antigen dose required to achieve
immune protection," wrote researcher M.C.  Steinhoff of the Center for
Immunization Research, Baltimore, Maryland, in a recent review (Vaccine,
January 1994;12(1):5-11).

Greenway and colleagues noted that a number of different research teams have
shown poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) or DL-PLG microspheres to be effective
vehicles for augmenting immune responses to antigen administered either
mucosally or systemically.

Various types of DL-PLG-based vaccines have already been proven safe in
humans.

Greenway et al.  created several versions of DL-PLG microencapsulated VEE
virus and compared their immunogenicity and protective efficacy to that of
free virus vaccine in BALB/c mice.

Subcutaneous immunization with 50 (micro)g microencapsulated VEE virus yielded
anti-VEE antibody titers up to 32 times higher than that seen with free virus.

When the mice that had received the microencapsulated vaccine received a
second booster immunization, their antibody responses remained stable
throughout the 100-day observation period.  Antibody levels began to wane only
in mice boosted with free virus.

"At high vaccine doses (i.e.  25 or 50 (micro)g), microspheres prepared with
either methylene chloride or ethyl acetate were equally effective in inducing
specific anti-VEE virus antibody response after both the primary and secondary
immunization," Greenway et al.  observed.  "However, when a lower dose (12.5
(micro)g) of the vaccines was tested, methylene chloride processed
microspheres induced higher antibody responses after both the primary and
secondary immunization.  ...  The solvent ethyl acetate reduced the
immunogenicity of formalin-fixed, inactivated VEE virus during the
microencapsulation procedure."

In addition, the researchers found that formalin-fixed VEE was far better than
non-formalin-fixed VEE for use in the microspheres.

"Formalin fixation of the whole inactivated VEE virus vaccine prior to
microencapsulation with the solvent methylene chloride dramatically enhanced
the immunogenicity of the final product, presumably through enhanced
conformational stability," they wrote.

In the mouse experiments, 80 percent of mice immunized with a single dose of 5
(micro)g VEE virus in microspheres prepared with methylene chloride survived
challenge with virulent VEE virus.  Only 20 percent of mice that received the
free virus vaccine survived challenge.

"At a high vaccine dose (i.e., 50 (micro)g), the microencapsulated vaccines
afforded 100 percent protection, whereas a similar dose of free antigen
resulted in 40 percent survival in one experiment and 100 percent survival in
a second experiment," Greenway et al.  wrote.

"These results, taken together with the protection results after secondary
immunization with either free or microencapsulated virus vaccine, indicate
that a single immunization with the microsphere vaccine could afford
protection similar to that attained with multiple immunizations with the free
virus vaccine."

The researchers are currently exploring the effectiveness of microencapsulated
VEE virus administered by various routes in protecting against aerosol
challenge with virulent VEE virus.

The corresponding author for this study is Suzanne M.  Michalek, Department of
Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Alabama 35294.

 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Human Papillomavirus (Diagnostics)
Serum Antibody to HPV-16 VLPs Indicates Cervical HPV-16 Infection


Serum antibody to human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) virus-like particles
(VLPs) could be useful in epidemiology studies and for surveillance.

Louise Wideroff, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland, and colleagues
evaluated an ELISA to detect serum IgG antibody response to HPV-16 VLPs
("Evaluation of Seroreactivity to Human Papillomavirus Type 16 Virus-like
Particles in an Incident Case-Control Study of Cervical Neoplasia," Journal of
Infectious Diseases, December 1995;172:1425-1430).  They used sera collected
from an incident case-control study of cervical neoplasia and compared
serologic results with established DNA markers of cervical HPV-16 infection.

Serum antibody to HPV-16 VLPs is a relatively sensitive indicator of
persisting cervical HPV-16 infection, based on data from the study.

The study included 688 individuals with continued normal cytology (control
group) and 152 patients with confirmed incident squamous intraepithelial
lesions.  The patients were tested for DNA of a broad spectrum of HPV types at
the beginning of the study and at follow-up.

"Of controls, 16.6 percent were seropositive compared with 30.8 percent and
52.4 percent of cases with low- and high-grade lesions, respectively," wrote
Wideroff et al.  "Seropositivity increased from 22.2 percent in subjects who
were HPV-16 DNA positive by polymerase chain reaction once only (enrollment or
follow-up) to 83.3 percent in those who were HPV-16 DNA positive at both time
points."

Because the potential validity of any HPV serologic marker depends on how
valid an indicator it is of exposure to viral antigens, it is essential to pay
close attention to establishing the marker's validity before it is used as a
clinical or research tool, the authors noted.

HPV of differing genotypes encode a range of capsid and nonstructural proteins
that are immunogenic in the infected individual, and efforts to characterize
the host immune response to the antigens have targeted, in part, on
establishing in human sera the prevalence of anti-HPV antibodies.

Challenges associated with culturing HPV to obtain viral antigens by
traditional methods have lead to the development of alternative antigen
sources in order to perform host immune response studies.  Wideroff et al.
noted that such sources include recombinant bacterial fusion proteins,
synthetic peptides and virions produced in xenograft and raft systems.  Empty
capsids, referred to as VLPs, serve as another source of antigen.  VLPs
self-assemble in eukaryotic cells that are infected with HPV expression
vectors, such as baculovirus (Kirnbauer et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA,
1992;89:12180-12184; Rose et al., J Virol, 1993;67:1936-1944; Hagensee et al.,
J Virol, 1993;67:315-322; Kirnbauer et al., J Virol, 1993;67:6929-6936).

Previously reported research studies have demonstrated that self-assembled
HPV-16 L1 plus L2 VLPs, expressed in insect cells via baculovirus vectors, are
capable of detecting anti-HPV-16 IgG antibody in serum by ELISA (Kirnbauer et
al., J Natl Cancer Inst, 1994;86:494-499; Galloway, J Natl Cancer Inst,
1994;86:474-475).

"In epidemiologic applications, serum antibody to HPV-16 VLPs could be a
useful end point biomarker in studies to determine risk factors for HPV
transmission," wrote Wideroff et al.  "It could also be considered an exposure
biomarker to assess immunologic risk factors for HPV-associated disease or as
a surrogate for viral infection itself when biologic samples are unavailable
for DNA testing."

The HPV serologic marker also could be beneficial as a surveillance tool for
estimating the population prevalence of HPV-16 exposure and to inspect
geographic variation and time trends in HPV associated infection, they added.

The HPV-16 serologic assay has been patented by contributing authors J.
Schiller, R.  Kirnbauer and D.  Lowy.  Contributing authors A.  Lorincz and
M.M.  Manos serve as scientific director and consultant, respectively, for
Digene Diagnostics and Information Management Services, Silver Spring,
Maryland.

The corresponding author for this study is Dr.  Louise Wideroff, NCI/DCE/EEB,
EPN 443, 6130 Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7374.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Blood Substitutes)
Hemolink Phase II Trials to Begin in 1996


A red blood cell substitute will go into Phase II clinical trials early in
1996 and, if all goes well, could be available on the market by 1999.

The announcement was made at the 1995 International Chemical Congress of
Pacific Basin Societies, held in Honolulu, Hawaii, December 17-22, 1995.

The blood substitute, Hemolink, manufactured by Hemosol, is made of chemically
modified hemoglobin, says Dr.  Gord Adamson, a company scientist.  Hemolink is
derived from screened and tested blood that is outdated because it has been
stored for more than six weeks.

Hemosol takes the expired blood, separates out the red blood cells and
extracts the hemoglobin.  That's more complicated than it sounds.  "A red cell
is not just a package of clean hemoglobin," Adamson says.  "It contains about
90 different proteins."  The company heat-treats the hemoglobin to destroy any
contaminating viruses that may have eluded the screening process conducted by
collection agencies.  Other remaining proteins are then removed by a novel
displacement chromatographic process.

The process strips away blood-group antigens and other proteins, so Hemolink
can be used by all patients regardless of blood type.  And the purification
steps make the likelihood of transmission of diseases such as HIV and
hepatitis "virtually" nil, according to Adamson.

"The reason we say 'virtually,"' he notes, "is because scientifically it is
impossible to prove total absence of a virus," but he is very confident that
Hemolink would pose no threat to users in terms of blood-borne diseases.  In
addition, the blood from which Hemolink is derived is already approved for
use; the company does not accept contaminated units.

After purification, the free hemoglobin is cross-linked with oxidized
raffinose, a sugar molecule.  This "improves the ability of the free
hemoglobin to deliver oxygen to tissue, stabilizes each hemoglobin molecule
and links together several such molecules so that they are large enough to
circulate for extended periods," Adamson says.

Human trials with Hemolink show the blood substitute circulates for a couple
of days in the blood stream - compared with a month or more for transfused red
cells - and is then excreted, says Adamson.  But animal trials show this is
long enough to counteract oxygen shortages during acute blood loss, say, in an
accident or an operation.  In fact, these trials showed that animals treated
with Hemolink did just as well as those treated with transfusions of the
animals' own blood.

Hemosol is currently working with two versions of Hemolink, one a fluid stored
in a refrigerator and one frozen.  Either formulation would be suitable for
surgical applications.  A long-term goal is to develop a freeze-dried
formulation.  It would be light enough to ship to remote depots - for use in
disasters or military conflicts, for example - and it could be reconstituted
with sterile water on-site.

Adamson believes the cost for Hemolink would be competitive, noting that there
are significant administrative costs associated with the existing blood
collection and distribution system.  These include the storage, transport,
disposal and other labor and record-keeping activities that a successful blood
substitute would significantly reduce.  Also, since no cross-matching would be
required, these costs would be saved.

Hemolink also would avoid some of the costly problems associated with blood
transfusions - such as transmission of disease (ranging from HIV or hepatitis
to a bacterial infection), or mismatched blood (where the patient might have a
reaction to antigens in the donor's blood that could be mild, such as a fever,
or severe, resulting in death), or the delays in surgery brought about by
blood shortages.

Hemosol will not rely just on Hemolink to launch itself in this market.  The
company is collaborating with Ronald Kluger, a chemistry professor with the
University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, to further extend cross-linking
technologies for second-generation products.

Adamson says the work also is aimed at chemically modifying hemoglobin so it
can serve as a carrier for drug molecules.  Tissues that can accumulate and
metabolize protein-drug conjugates are potential targets.  An example is a
solid tumor.  Adamson says this would reduce many of the side-effects of
anti-tumor agents.

A large-scale conversion from red cells to blood substitutes is unrealistic,
particularly in the short term, Adamson says.  But assuming they win approval,
blood substitutes could ultimately bring in big money.  Industry estimates of
the potential market for blood substitutes (and newer applications where red
cells can't be used) by the year 2002 are around 1.5 million units (worth
US$500 million) in North America, and over three million units worldwide,
Hemosol says.






<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Blood Substitutes) 
PEG-Hemoglobin Cleared for Multi-Dose/Multi-Center Trial in Cancer Patients 


Enzon, Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey, announced that it has received clearance
from the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to begin a multi-dose,
multi-center clinical trial of its hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier,
PEG-hemoglobin, in cancer patients receiving radiation therapy.

The study, in patients with various advanced solid tumors, will primarily
evaluate safety related to multiple doses of PEG-hemoglobin and, secondarily,
tumor response to the combination therapy of radiation and PEG-hemoglobin.

There are two million cases of cancer diagnosed annually, according to the
American Cancer Society.  Approximately 800,000 of these cases involve solid
tumors which are now treated with radiation.  By delivering oxygen,
PEG-hemoglobin should sensitize solid tumors which may enhance response to
radiation therapy.  This process, termed "radiosensitization", may provide a
combination treatment of solid tumors, which is more effective than radiation
therapy alone.

The FDA, in a "Points to Consider" bulletin, suggested that the oxygenation of
solid tumors would be important supportive evidence for clinical efficacy of
hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers.  In response to that bulletin, Enzon
scientists have developed a clinical program focused on radiosensitization.
The company believes that PEG-hemoglobin is the only hemoglobin-based oxygen
carrier in clinical development for this indication.

Pre-clinical studies conducted at Enzon, Harvard University's Dana Farber
Cancer Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the University of Wisconsin,
Veterinary School of Medicine, demonstrated that PEG-hemoglobin enhanced the
effectiveness of radiation therapy and significantly reduced tumors in both
implanted animal models, as well as animal patients exhibiting spontaneous
tumors.

In February 1995, Enzon initiated a safety study with PEG-hemoglobin in 28
healthy volunteers.  The maximum dose administered was equivalent to 1.5 units
of whole blood.  The study, which was completed in September 1995,
demonstrated that PEG-hemoglobin in its active form, circulates in the blood
for approximately eleven days.

Patients will receive a once-a-week dose of PEG-hemoglobin for each five days
of radiation treatment during a three-week therapy program.  The dose level
will be dependent on body weight, but will be significantly less than the
highest dose used in the previous safety study.  The company also believes
that a sufficient amount of PEG-hemoglobin remains in the blood to properly
oxygenate tumors and optimize radiation therapy during the five day course of
treatment.

"This approval represents a significant advancement in our PEG-hemoglobin
program," stated Peter G.  Tombros, Enzon's president and chief executive
officer.  "We have worked closely with the FDA to develop this protocol."

At this time, Enzon will dedicate its manufacturing capability exclusively to
the production of PEG-hemoglobin to produce additional clinical materials and
complete commercial process development.  The existing facility at the present
scale is adequate to supply all PEG-hemoglobin needed for clinical trials up
to FDA approval.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Joint Venture)
Anticancer Drug Licensing/Research Agreement Signed


Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey, and EntreMed, Inc.,
Rockville, Maryland, announced an agreement in which Bristol-Myers Squibb will
obtain exclusive worldwide licensing rights to antiangiogenic compounds now in
development by EntreMed, Inc.

Antiangiogenic therapies, which have been shown in preclinical studies to
prevent the abnormal formation of blood vessels, have the potential to block
the growth of primary and metastatic cancers by eliminating a tumor's blood
supply.

Under the terms of the agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb has made an equity
investment in EntreMed and will fund a five-year research collaboration in the
area of angiogenesis and its application in the treatment of cancer.  In
return, Bristol-Myers Squibb will obtain worldwide licensing rights to the
recently discovered antiangiogenic applications of the drugs thalidomide,
thalidomide analogs and Angiostatin protein, which have generated considerable
interest in the medical community.

Angiostatin is a novel protein which may suppress malignant tumor formation by
inhibiting the growth of blood vessels.  In preclinical trials, it has
successfully caused the regression of primary human breast, prostate, and
colon tumors in animal models.

Thalidomide, developed as a sedative, has not been approved in the U.S., and
it was originally associated with birth defects.  However, if it is shown to
be an effective antiangiogenic therapy in humans, it has the potential to
become a significant anticancer agent.  There are currently no antiangiogenic
products approved for the treatment of cancer.

Angiogenesis research was pioneered by Judah Folkman, M.D., director of the
Surgical Research Laboratory at Children's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts,
and professor of pediatric surgery at Harvard Medical School.  Folkman was the
first to observe that cancerous tissues are fed by newly-grown blood vessels
sprouting from existing arteries.

He theorized that if doctors could prevent these blood vessels from growing,
then the tumor would starve.  Since Children's Hospital has a sponsored
research agreement with EntreMed, Bristol-Myers Squibb will obtain first
refusal rights on any antiangiogenic technologies developed in Folkman's
laboratory and licensed by EntreMed.

It is expected that the first clinical trials to test the antiangiogenic
properties of these compounds in cancer will begin in 1996.  EntreMed has
already initiated clinical trials with thalidomide in the treatment of
blindness due to age-related macular degeneration, another angiogenic
disorder.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Joint Venture)
Marketing Agreement Announced for Cancer Test


Biomira Inc., Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and Immunex Corporation, Seattle,
Washington, announced a co-promotion agreement for Truquant BR RIA, Biomira's
blood test for the detection of recurrent breast cancer.

As part of this co-promotion plan, Polymedco Inc., Cortlandt Manor, New York,
will continue as Biomira's exclusive distributor for this product in the U.S.
Biomira's Truquant BR in vitro test kit has recently received an approvable
letter and is awaiting marketing clearance from the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration (FDA), which is expected during the first quarter of 1996.

The Truquant BR kit is the first and only blood test clinically proven to be a
significant and independent predictor of recurrence of breast cancer in women
with Stage II and Stage III disease.  There are more than one million women in
the United States who have been diagnosed with Stage II and Stage III breast
cancer.

Truquant BR test detects the presence in the blood of the CA27.29 antigen, a
breast cancer tumour marker.  The Truquant BR kit is under expedited FDA
review.  On September 21, 1995, the FDA received a unanimous recommendation
for approval from its Immunology Devices Advisory Panel for Biomira's Truquant
BR test.  The company has completed all conditions in the approvable letter
from the FDA, other than a site inspection which is anticipated in the first
quarter of 1996.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Patents and Technology)
Leukonet Filter Device Removes Contaminating Leukocytes from Transfusion Blood


HemaSure Inc., Marlborough, Massachusetts, announced that the U.S.  Patent and
Trademark Office has issued a patent covering the company's LeukoNet Filter
for removal of leukocytes (white blood cells) from blood.

The patent encompasses configuration of the device's design.  HemaSure's
LeukoNet Filter is currently marketed for pre-storage use by blood centers to
remove potentially harmful leukocytes from blood prior to infusion into
patients.

"HemaSure is applying the technology covered by this patent in the LeukoNet
Filter, to provide a high-performance and cost-effective way for blood centers
to consistently achieve leukocyte reduction of their transfusion blood," said
Eugene J.  Zurlo, President and Chief Executive Officer of HemaSure Inc.  "The
automated flow management features of the LeukoNet translate into ease of use
and high reliability with minimal operator intervention, which can
significantly reduce labor costs in blood centers using LeukoNet Filters."

Zurlo noted that the patent is part of the company's growing portfolio of
intellectual property related to filters, systems, and other technologies used
in a variety of products to remove harmful contaminating agents from blood and
blood products.  HemaSure's LeukoNet Filter was cleared for marketing in the
U.S.  in June 1995, by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration (FDA).  The
company estimates the worldwide market potential for leukoreduction filters at
$750 million annually.

The patent, issued on December 5, 1995, is No.  5,472,605.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Preventive Medicine
Experts Call for More Counseling/Better Screening


A task force of prominent preventive health specialists recommended that
doctors and nurses offer more frequent patient counseling on personal health
and safety habits, significantly change the use of some screening tests, and
ensure that several newer immunizations are routinely provided.

The U.S.  Preventive Services Task Force, an independent panel first convened
in 1984 as an initiative of the U.S.  Public Health Service, issued the first
revision of its widely used 1989 guide to effective disease prevention and
health promotion, based on a careful review of scientific evidence.

Many of the recommended changes in the 1995 "Guide to Clinical Preventive
Services, 2nd Edition" reflect new evidence about important health benefits of
selected preventive services.  Other changes reflect a more critical look at
the balance of harms and benefits of screening tests now in wide use.  The
report also reaffirms many of the disease and injury prevention practices
recommended in 1989.

In accepting the report from the Task Force, Philip R.  Lee, M.D., Assistant
Secretary for Health, noted that "Effective disease and injury prevention is
our most efficient tool for improving our health status as individuals and as
a nation.  This report, like its predecessor, moves us further toward
prevention that works."

The ten-member Task Force rejected the traditional emphasis on a standardized
annual physical examination as an effective tool for improving the health of
patients.  Instead, they emphasized that the content and the frequency of the
periodic health exam need to be tailored to the age, health risks and
preferences of each patient.

The panel recognized the proven benefits of specific measures such as periodic
screening for high blood pressure and cervical cancer, scheduled vaccinations,
and counseling about tobacco, alcohol and other lifestyle issues.  In
contrast, the Task Force found little evidence of important benefits from
other tests often included in routine check-ups, such as blood tests for
diabetes, thyroid diseases or anemia, chest X- rays, electrocardiograms and
urine tests.

According to Task Force Chair, Dr.  Harold C.  Sox, Jr., Chair of Medicine at
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, "Our review affirms the effectiveness of a
variety of preventive interventions, many of which are underutilized in
routine practice.  At the same time, other widely used preventive practices,
many of which are costly and some of which are even dangerous, show little or
no evidence that they improve health.  We based our recommendations on the
scientific evidence.  All too often, the evidence was too weak for us to make
a strong recommendation.  We need to strengthen the evidence on which our
prevention practices rest."

Although none of the recommendations depended on cost, the Task Force noted
the considerable cost of the widespread use of many unproven tests and
procedures, such as routine electrocardiograms in healthy adults and
ultrasound scans in low-risk pregnancies.

The Task Force included specialists in family medicine, internal medicine,
obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics and preventive medicine.  Over 30
outside experts in medicine, nursing, public health, epidemiology, and health
promotion and education also contributed to the project.

The Task Force assessed more than 6,000 studies of over 200 different
interventions for more than 70 diseases and conditions.  These included 53
screening tests (for cardiovascular disease, cancer, metabolic and nutritional
diseases, infectious diseases, vision and hearing disorders, prenatal
disorders, congenital disorders, musculoskeletal disorders, mental disorders
and substance abuse); 11 counseling topics ranging from promoting seat belt
use to preventing tobacco use; immunization against 12 common childhood and
adult diseases; and the use of aspirin and postmenopausal hormones to prevent
disease.

The report draws several broad conclusions about effective preventive care:

* Counseling patients about personal health practices (smoking, diet, physical
activity, drinking, and injury prevention and sexual practices) remains one of
the most underused, but important, parts of the health visit.

* Preventive services offered by the clinician should be tailored to the
specific behaviors and risk factors of individual patients, not offered as a
standard "routine checkup" given to all patients.

* Patients should share in decisions about preventive services.  Their
personal preferences are important in determining an approach to prevention
that is optimal for them as individuals.  This is especially true when the
evidence of benefit is weak.

* Doctors and nurses should try to deliver prevention messages and services
during every encounter with their patients, especially for high- risk patients
who are often the least likely to see clinicians for routine checkups.

The following are examples of new or revised recommendations:

* In favor of flexible sigmoidoscopy and/or annual fecal occult blood testing
to screen for colorectal cancer.

* In favor of targeting routine screening for high cholesterol and other lipid
disorders to men aged 35 to 65 and women 45 to 65, and others at increased
risk for heart disease.

* Against routine screening for prostate cancer with prostate specific antigen
(PSA) or digital rectal examination.

* Against routine urine tests for early detection of bladder cancer or
asymptomatic urinary tract infection.

* In favor of daily multivitamins with folic acid for all women who can become
pregnant (to prevent neural tube defects).

* In favor of routinely vaccinating all newborns, children, adolescents and
young adults against hepatitis B.

* In favor of routine vaccination of children against chickenpox.

* In favor of counseling parents of young children on measures to reduce the
risk of household and recreational injuries.

* In favor of discussing the use of estrogen therapy with all postmenopausal
women.

To order a printed copy of the "Guide to Clinical Preventive Services, 2nd
Edition," contact the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.  Government Printing
Office, at 202-512-1800; the Stock No.  is 017-001-00525-8 and the single copy
price is $35 (shipping included).

Questions relating to the scientific content of the "Guide to Clinical
Preventive Services, 2nd Edition" should be addressed to Carolyn DiGuiseppi,
M.D., M.P.H.  or David Atkins, M.D., M.P.H.  at 301-594-4015.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Tissue Banking
Storage of Tissues Leads to Ethical Dilemmas


If you've ever had a biopsy, do you know what happened to that sample of your
own tissue after the tests were completed?  There is a possibility that, even
without your knowledge, it ended up in a "bank" where human tissue and fluids
are collected for future use.

As Dr.  Eike-Henner Kluge of the University of Victoria in British Columbia,
Canada, told the 1995 International Chemical Congress of Pacific Basin
Societies, held in Honolulu, Hawaii, December 17-22, 1995, "If I get hold of
your DNA, I know a lot about you, and in fact, I can identify you.  Is it an
invasion of privacy?  Kluge answers that laws regarding the protection of
privacy never looked at this area, because it didn't exist at the time the
laws were enacted."

Yet from a healthcare perspective, the establishment of a human tissue bank
can be very beneficial.  Kluge asserts that with a proper collection policy
for a tissue bank, "observations at the cellular level over a period of time,
starting with base-line studies, will allow you to identify health issues
before they reach an acute stage of toxicity.  We're beginning to see
ecological changes that reflect themselves in the tissue changes in human
beings."

Although tissue banks have existed in several countries for several decades,
the collection policy is quite haphazard.  "There is no organized way of
getting this data," Kluge contends, "or integrating the data and then doing
something with it.  We really don't have a handle on it at the human level at
all."

Getting a handle on the commercial impact may be even more difficult.  Kluge
points to one case where "cancerous liver cells were used to develop a strain
of biological products where the profit after expenses runs into the billions
of dollars."  When a state court was asked to settle the cell ownership
question, it ruled in favor of the physicians who had developed the commercial
venture rather than the individual who had been the source of the cells.

To Kluge, the problem "is very simple.  We have no international law dealing
with the collection, disposition, and use of human tissue and fluids in these
banks.  And no country has any law that really nails down who may have access
to it, who may use it for what uses, who has ownership and who has right of
disposition."

As a medical ethicist and former Director of Ethics and Legal Affairs of the
Canadian Medical Association, Kluge contends that "one has to look at the
ethics to try and develop some guidelines which are not only national, but
also international, because once the banks are established, the transfer of
tissue and fluids is international.  One then has to deal with different
cultures, different legal systems, and different kinds of perspectives of what
is appropriate and what is not appropriate."

According to Kluge, there are two possible approaches.  One of them is at the
United Nations level, "which gives rise to international conventions where
subscribers are bound by the regulations of the convention."  Another is a
"professional code of ethics, where violators would be subject to professional
sanctions."

Kluge's approach is not to look at existing law, but to look at the ethics of
the situation, especially in terms of who owns the tissue.  In a sense it is a
foundational approach which might be used as a model independent of the legal
tradition."  One option that Kluge intends to explore is to "work the relevant
ethical considerations into trade agreements, as was done with medical
informatics requirements in the European Economic Community.  That would be
particularly relevant in light of the new Pacific - Asian Rim Free Trade
initiative."

"Otherwise," Kluge warns, "if you don't do this right, you're going to have a
mess for the next fifty years."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Xenotransplantation
Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality


Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Structured
Biologicals Inc.  (SBI), Toronto, Ontario, Canada, announced that an SBI
sponsored experiment consisting of a bone-marrow transplant from a baboon to
an AIDS patient took place at a San Francisco, California, hospital.

On July 14, 1995, an advisory panel to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) unanimously recommended that one AIDS patient be allowed to receive an
experimental bone-marrow transplant from a baboon.  Collaborators on the
experiment include Dr.  Anthony Fauci, head of the U.S.  National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and Dr.  Robert Gallo, a pioneering
AIDS researcher at the U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI).

Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., also a lecturer in surgery at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, took part in the procedure.

The experiment was devised by Dr.  Suzanne Ildstadt, Chief, Division of
Cellular Therapeutics, Pittsburgh University School of Medicine.  Ildstadt
discovered a novel blood cell, the "facilitating" cell, which eliminates the
risk of graft-versus-host disease, a fatal adverse reaction, and successfully
fights transplant rejection.

Baboons are naturally resistant to HIV-1.  It is therefore believed that the
uninfected baboon bone marrow cells will join the HIV infected human marrow to
restore the patient's immune function.

The applied "facilitating" cell technology may dramatically change the
practice of transplantation in that it could potentially enable permanent
acceptance of transplanted organs such as heart, kidney, lung and liver as
well as transplanted cells or tissue, all without the need for tissue matching
or prolonged administration of immunosuppressive drugs.

The technology could provide effective treatments for blood and autoimmune
diseases, such as:  Leukemia and Lymphoma, Sickle Cell Anemia, Thalassemia,
Systemic Lupus Euythematosis, Crohn's Disease and Type 1 Diabetes, and may
ultimately permit successful xenotransplantation (cross-species
transplantation).





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Complications of Anticoagulant Therapy:  CT Findings."  E.S.  Pretorius and
E.K.  Fishman.  Baltimore, Maryland.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "Anticoagulant therapy in patients
with pulmonary embolism or venous thrombosis (or patients at risk for
thromboembolic disease) is indicated to limit disease progression and prevent
recurrence.  Anticoagulant levels must be carefully monitored to maintain
therapeutic dosages.  High drug levels can result in a variety of
complications that increase patient morbidity and mortality.  The clinical and
radiographic appearances of these complications may be overlooked or confused
with other pathologic processes, and this may result in unnecessary work-up
and delay proper therapy.  This exhibit presents the spectrum of complications
of anticoagulant-related bleeding as documented with CT.  Potential pitfalls
in diagnosis as well as the role of CT in management are discussed."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Serum Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST) Values as a Useful Predictor for the
Histologic Features of Chronic Hepatitis C Infection in Adults."  N.  Assy and
G.Y.  Minuk.  Liver Diseases Unit and Liver Diseases Research Laboratory,

Departments of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Manitoba.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "We assessed the predictive value of age,
gender, route of transmission, extent of steatosis, alcohol consumption and
aminotransferase values (ALT, AST) on the histologic findings of 79 adult
patients with chronic hepatitis C viral infections.  The mean (+/-SD) age of
the patient population was 43.5 +/- 10.8 years of which 60% were male.  The
route of transmission was considered to be parenteral drugs in 56%, previous
blood transfusions in 32% and various non-parenteral routes in 13%.  RESULTS:
The mean histologic activity score of the group as described by Desmet et al.
was 3.5 +/- 0.8 and fibrosis score 1.5 +/- 0.4.  The extent of inflammation
correlated with fibrosis (r=0.72).  By multivariate stepwise regression
analyses, the AST emerged as the most important predictor variable of
histologic activity (P<0.00001).  When overall histologic activity was
separated into-portal inflammation, piecemeal necrosis and lobular activity,
significant correlations existed between AST values and portal inflammation
(P<0.0001) and piecemeal necrosis (P<0.005) but not lobular activity (P=0.9).
A strong correlation was also observed between AST values and the extent of
hepatic fibrosis (P<0.0001).  On the other hand, ALT values did not correlate
with histologic activity but did correlate with the extent of hepatic fibrosis
(P<0.01).  There were no significant correlations between age, gender, route
of transmission, steatosis or alcohol consumption with the extent of
histologic activity or fibrosis.  In conclusion, AST values correlate
well-with two of three features of hepatic inflammation and with the extent of
hepatic fibrosis.  These findings suggest that AST values should be considered
in decisions regarding the need for liver biopsy and treatment in patients
with chronic hepatitis C viral infections."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"What Serologic Tests are Necessary Before a Liver Biopsy in Patients with
Hepatitis C (HCV)?."  P.G.  Quinn, D.E.  Wheeler, M.M.  Jamal and A.
Sonnenberg.  Departments of Medicine and Pathology, University of New Mexico

(UNM), Albuquerque, New Mexico.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "Before undergoing interferon therapy for
infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV), patients usually undergo a liver
biopsy and multiple serologic tests to rule out other liver diseases.  In 93
HCV patients, the clinical and economic implications of omitting the serologic
tests in HCV were examined.  METHODS:  Over a period of two years, 93
consecutive patients entered the study.  Entry criteria were elevated serum
transaminases (ALT and AST), positive serum test for HCV by ELISA or RIBA, and
a liver biopsy.  Special stains assessed iron overload and alpha-1 antitrypsin
(AI AT) deficiency.  All patients had serum tests for ferritin, iron (Fe),
iron binding capacity (TIBC), A1AT, ceruloplasmin, and/or anti-nuclear
antibodies.  The costs of each test were based on the current UNM fee
schedule.  RESULTS:  None of the patients showed an abnormal test for
ceruloplasmin or A1AT.  Five patients had a ferritin value >800 ng/ml, but
only two patients also had elevated iron saturation (Fe/TIBC >65%).  The two
biopsies, however, did not contain increased iron and so were not consistent
with hemochromatosis (HC).  None of the other liver biopsies showed
histopathologic changes consistent with HC, Wilson's disease, or
MAT-deficiency.  Testing costs were:  Fe/TIBC $39.25, ferritin $61.50,
ceruloplasmin $33.50, and A1AT $30.50.  The expense for these tests totalled
$164.75 per person.  Therefore, $15,321.75 represents the potential savings in
this population of 93 patients.  CONCLUSION:  If a pre-treatment liver biopsy
is deemed necessary to assess liver pathology in an HCV patient, serologic
testing for HC, Wilson's disease and A1AT deficiency seems redundant and not
indicated, since the presence of any of these diagnoses is readily assessed by
liver biopsy with special stains.  The minor downside to this suggested
strategy is the need send fixed tissue for iron quantitation if the iron stain
is suggestive of hemochromatosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (HCV)
"HCV-Viremia in Serum and Liver Tissue of Anti-HCV Positive Subjects:
Correlation with ALT and Liver Histology."  M.  Persico, V.  Nigro, E.
Persico, L.  Gesue, S.  Conte, I.  de Sio, S.  Gentile and R.  Torella.

Internal Medicine and Hepatology, Patologia Generale-II University of Naples,
Italy.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "We studied 30 HCV-RNA positive subjects, 15
with high ALT levels and 15 with normal ALT who underwent ultrasound guided
liver biopsy.  All the subjects were comparable for age (47 yrs, range 32-63)
and sex (F/M:  6/9 and 7/8).  HCV-viremia was assessed on serum and liver
tissue according to the following method.  The most conserved region (5') of
HCV-RNA retrotranscribed and amplified with outer primers and cloned.  To this
product the middle 70 bp of exogenous DNA were added and different dilutions
of this longer product were used for competitive PCR.  Liver tissue HCV-RNA
was significantly correlated to serum HCV-RNA in 'symptomatic' patients
(M:10(6) copies of genome/ml, range 10(3)-10(9) vs.  M:10(5) copies of
genome/ml,range 10(2)-10(8); r=0.627 P<0.01).  No significantly correlation
was rather found in 'Asymptomatic' subjects.  No difference in HCV-RNA tissue
levels was detected between the two groups whereas serum HCV-RNA levels were
significantly different (M:10(2), range 750-10(7) copies of genome/ml vs.
M:10(5), range 10(2)-10(8) copies of genome/ml P<0.01).  Liver histology was
comparable in the two groups and ALT serum levels significantly related to
HCV-Viremia.  CONCLUSIONS:  HCV-viremia does not parallel tissue levels of
HCV-RNA indicating that virus C replication might also be identified in areas
other than liver.  Serum HCV-viremia seems to be the only discriminating value
among different phases of HCV related-CH."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (HCV)
"Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes, RNA Titer and Liver Histology in Volunteer Blood
Donors with Different Alanine Aminotransferase Profile."  F.E.  Radagli and E.
Carigni.  Hospital of Brescia, Italy; Blood Transfusion Service, Hospital of

Chiari, Italy.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "BACKGROUND:  Little is known about the viral
genotypes, the levels of viremia and the severity of liver lesions in blood
donors with HCV infection and persistently normal alanine aminotransferase
(ALT) levels.  STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS:  We analyzed HCV genotype and RNA
titer in 33 volunteer blood donors, 19 with persistently normal and 14 with
raised ALT levels.  Seventeen donors with normal ALT and all donors with
raised ALT underwent liver biopsy and evaluation of the histological activity
index (HAI).  RESULTS:  Genotype 2 was detected in most donors with normal
ALT, whereas genotype 1 was more frequent among donors with raised ALT
(P<0.01).  HCV RNA titer, determined by competitive PCR, was higher in donors
with raised ALT than in those with normal ALT (median 8.2 log copies/ml, range
6.1-8.85, vs median 7.4, range 4.95-8.6, P=0.01).  The scores for portal
inflammation and for fibrosis in the HAI were higher in donors with increased
ALT (P<0.05 and P<0.01).  HCV genotype had no statistical relationship with
RNA titer; or with liver histology.  The score for periportal necrosis was
correlated with the viral titer (P<0.01).  CONCLUSION:  Both the infecting
genotype and the levels of hepatitis C virus replication were independently
associated with the ALT profile.  The severity of portal inflammation and
fibrosis was higher in donors with raised ALT, and the rate of viral
replication was correlated with the degree of periportal necrosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Epidemiology
"Liver Biopsy Discloses Occult Chronic Viral Hepatitis 'C' (HCV) in Young
Asymptomatic Blood Donors in Southern Brazil."  S.G.S.  Barros, M.R.
Vasconcellos, C.A.  Arruda, L.T.  Cavozzola, M.A.  Chies, G.S.P.  Madruga,

C.T.S.  Cerski, C.  Schaffer, J.P.  Marques-Pereira, A.C.  Maciel, L.P.  Krug,
N.  Ikuta, V.R.  Lunge, A.S.K.  Fonseca and L.S.  Osaki.  Department of
Internal Medicine, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul; Gastroenterology
Service-Hospital de Clinicas de Porto Alegre; SIMBIOS-Biotechnology
Center-UFRGS, Brazil.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "OBJECTIVES:  To evaluate histopathological
alterations in young asymptomatic blood donors positive for hepatitis C virus
(anti-HCV-ELISA II) and the identification of known risk factors.  MATERIAL
AND METHODS:  Asymptomatic blood donors anti-HCV positive (ELISA
II/double-checked), HBsAg and HIV negatives were referred for evaluation.
Thirty-four patients who had any two alterations in the following liver
function tests (LFT):  AST, ALT, total bilirubin, serum proteinogram, GGT,
alkaline phosphatase, prothrombin time were selected for percutaneous liver
biopsy and reverse trancriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for
hepatitis C virus RNA (HCV-RNA) in serum after ultrasound, platelet count and
KTTP.  RESULTS:  The mean age was 35.7 years, 82.4% were male.  LFT were
minimally abnormal and did not point to chronicity.  The histologic findings
were:  I) HCV Chronic Active Hepatitis - 29.4%; II) HCV-Chronic Persistent
Hepatitis 20.6%; III) Reactional Hepatitis - 17.6%; IV) Alcoholic Residual
Lesion - 5.9%; V) Steatosis - 8.8% and VI) Normal in 17.6%.  HCV-RNA was
detected in 26 patients (76.5%).  In these cases, liver histology and
aminotransferases were abnormal in 13 patients and remained normal in the
other 13.  HCV-RNA was not detected in 8 patients (23.5%).  Among these, 5 had
abnormal liver histology and aminotransferases; two had normal liver histology
with elevated aminotransferases and one case had abnormal liver histology with
normal aminotransferases.  History disclosed the following risk factors:  a)
Percutaneous Exposure (tattoos, non-disposable syringes use) - 65.5%; b) IV
Drug Addiction 58.8%; c) Previous Blood Transfusion - 26.5%; d) Sexual
Promiscuity - 18.5%; e) Homosexual Behavior - 15.2%.  Alcohol abusers or
dependents were 43.3%.  CONCLUSIONS:  1) Liver biopsy disclosed frequent,
occult, HCV chronic hepatitis in this population, regardless of HCV-RNA
positive or negative status; 2) Risk factors were detected in the majority of
these patients."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Gene Targeting (Stem Cells)
"Targeting of the Dopamine D[3] Receptor Gene in Embryonic Stem Cells:
Enrichment for Homologous Recombination by Destabilizing Selection Marker
Transcripts from Random Integration Sites."  B.V.  Skryabin and C.  Schmauss.

Department Psychiatry and Brookdale Center for Molecular Biology, Mt.  Sinai
School of Medicine, New York, New York.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 25th Annual Meeting
of the Society for Neuroscience, held November 11-16, 1995, in San Diego,
California, "Successful gene targeting by homologous recombination is largely
determined by the relative frequency of homologous vs.  nonhomologous
recombination events.  A widely used selection method for homologously
recombinant ES cells is a positive-negative selection (PNS) which typically
involves the placement of the thymidine kinase (TK) gene outside of the
targeted homology and the addition of antiviral drugs to the ES cell-selection
media.  However, the toxicity of such drugs (ganciclovir or FIAU) is thought
to impair the ability of ES cells to colonize the germ line.  An alternative
to the use of antiviral agents in conjunction with G-418 for PNS is to
destabilize only that portion of the neomycin phosphotransferase II mRNA that
derives from random integration sites (positive selection).  We have targeted
the dopamine D3-receptor gene locus in mouse ES cells with 5 different
replacement targeting vectors.  Four vectors contained one of the following
sequence elements that are thought to destabilize the neomycin-resitance-gene
(neor) transcript:  1) a poly (A(+)) less neorcassette; 2) a neor ribozyme
with proven catalytic activity; 3) a mutant ribozyme placed outside of the
targeted homology (control); and 4) an antisense neor sequence.  A control
vector contained the TK gene placed outside of the targeted homology.  Our
initial results indicate that these strategies are effective alternatives to
the selection with antiviral agents.  (Supported by NSF IBN-9409772)."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pathogenesis (HCV)
"Histological Progression of Chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Infection in
Untreated Asymptomatic Blood Donors."  M.M.  Ahmed, E.  Elias, K.  O'Donnell,
J.  Shaw, F.  Kennedy, R.F.  Harrison, F.A.  Ala, H.  Atrah and D.J.  Mutimer.

Queen Elizabeth Hospital Liver Unit, and Regional BTS, Edgbaston, Birmingham,
United Kingdom.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "The natural history of chronic HCV is poorly
understood.  We prospectively monitored the histological progression of
chronic HCV infection in untreated asymptomatic patients using serial two
yearly liver biopsies.  PATIENTS AND METHODS:  Sixty five asymptomatic HCV
RIBA positive blood donors (48 male, 17 female, median age 37 years) referred
from the Blood Transfusion Service were investigated.  Forty had an overt
parenteral risk factor for HCV exposure - 36 IVDU, 4 prior transfusion.  All
were HCV RNA+ve.  Seventeen patients (26%) had normal initial transaminases.
Median ALT was 48iu (range 9-440, normal <30), AST 48iu (range 14-200, normal
30iu).  Liver biopsy was recommended for all patients, and histology was
scored (without reference to clinical details) according to a modified Knodell
histological activity index (HAI, maximum possible score 13).  63 patients had
an initial biopsy:  median HAI=2, mean HAI=2.8, range 08, none cirrhotic.
When HAI>=6 (9 patients), treatment with alpha interferon was recommended.
When HAI<6 (54 patients), interferon was not used but 2 yearly follow-up
biopsies were recommended.  To date, 29 biopsies have been repeated in
untreated patients - 16 deteriorated, 4 improved, 9 unchanged.  In re-biopsied
patients median HAI increased from 2 to 3.  Serum HCV RNA titre was not
related to progression.  The median ALT at 2 years was unchanged in untreated
patients.  CONCLUSIONS:  In asymptomatic RIBA+ve patients initial histological
changes are mild.  In many patients there is a slow histological progression
over 2 years."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Blood Banking (Storage)
Murphy, S.; Shimizu, T.; Miripol, J.  "Platelet Storage for Transfusion in
Synthetic Media:  Further Optimization of Ingredients and Definition of Their
Roles."  Blood, November 15, 1995;86(10):3951-3960.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Blood,
"Currently, most platelet concentrates (PC) are stored for transfusion at 20
degrees C to 24 degrees C in autologous plasma.  There are potential
advantages in replacing some of this plasma with a synthetic medium.  In this
study, our major goals were to define the optimal ingredients and their
concentrations in such a medium and to gain insight into the mechanism by
which each ingredient confers benefit.  In addition, we wished to validate a
new polyvinyl chloride container plasticized with di-n-decyl phthalate (DnDP)
for PC storage.  PC derived from donations of whole blood were stored for 7
days in autologous plasma or a basic synthetic medium (BSM) containing 15
mmol/L glucose, 21 mmol/L citrate, and physiologic concentrations of salts
other than bicarbonate within either the DnDP container or a licensed
polyolefin container, PL-732.  Metabolic events were characterized and a panel
of in vitro tests were used to monitor platelet quality as systematic changes
in the BSM were made.  Platelet quality was at least as good, if not better,
after storage in DnDP in comparison to PL-732.  pH consistently decreased to
less than 6.0 because of inadequate buffering of lactic acid in BSM alone.
However, pH and the in vitro tests were well maintained by either the serial
addition of bicarbonate (BSM + B) or the addition of at least 15 mmol/L
acetate and 10 mmol/L phosphate (BSM + AP).  The benefits of BSM + AP were
traced to a decrease in lactic acid production by 33% and 19% relative to
plasma and BSM + B, respectively, and the vigorous oxidation of acetate (0.66
+/- 0.09 mmol/d/10(12) platelets).  The rates of lactate production and
acetate consumption were similar and the pH during storage correlated with the
difference between the two rates, suggesting that acetate oxidation has an
alkalinizing effect equivalent on a molar basis to the acidifying effect of
production of lactate and a hydrogen ion.  When pyruvate replaced acetate, it
was also metabolized vigorously (0.52 +/- 0.06 mmol/d/10(12) platelets), Its
presence suppressed lactic acid production by 44% relative to BSM + B and
allowed maintenance of pH and platelet quality similar to what is achieved
with acetate.  The results strongly suggest that the benefit from acetate (or
pyruvate) is derived from its oxidation and the use of a hydrogen ion during
that oxidation.  For reasons that are not yet clear, the omission of phosphate
resulted in pH decrease to less than 6.0 in 3 of 9 PC even with acetate
present.  The results allow for a more complete definition of the minimal
essential ingredients of an optimal medium relative to the amount of plasma
carried over into the PC.  With less than 20% plasma carry-over, 15 mmol/L
acetate, 14 mmol/L glucose, 10 mmol/L phosphate, and 5 mmol/L citrate produce
excellent results.  After 7 days of storage in such a medium, the results of
in vitro tests reflecting platelet quality were at least as good as, if not
better than, results after storage in plasma."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  S Murphy, Amer Red Cross, Blood Serv, 700 Spring Garden St,
Philadelphia, PA 19123 USA.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  W B Saunders Co, Independence Square West, Curtis
Center, Ste 300, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3399.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Hemophilia (HCV)
Tagariello, G.; Pontisso, P.; Davoli, P.G.; Ruvoletto, M.G.; Traldi, A.;
Alberti, A.  "Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes and Severity of Chronic Liver
Disease in Haemophiliacs."  British Journal of Haematology, November

1995;91(3):708-713.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in British Journal
of Haematology, "We studied the activity and stage of chronic liver disease in
45 HCV-seropositive/HIV-seronegative patients with severe haemophilia followed
for at least 10 years, HCV-RNA was detected in serum in 36 patients (80%)
Viraemic cases were further analyzed for HCV genotypes:  10 (28%) were
infected by type 1a, 10 (28%) by type 1b, seven (19%) by type 2, four (11%) by
type 3, four (11%) had mixed infections (one by 1a + 1b, one by 1a + 2, one by
type 2 + 3, and one by 1a + 2 + 3).  ALT levels were within the normal range
in 55% of the HCV-RNA negative patients but in only 11% of the viraemic cases.
Results show a trend for higher levels of ALT in HCV-RNA-positive patients
compared with those without viraemia (98 +/- 56 v 60 +/- 61), and particularly
with patients with type 3 HCV infection (148 +/- 44).  We suggest:  that a
slow progression of chronic liver disease occurs in haemophilic
HCV-positive/HIV-negative patients and conclude that presence of HCV-RNA in
serum correlates well with cytolytic damage but, in the time-scale of our
follow-up period, commonly used clinical-laboratory parameters cannot predict
the chronic evolution of liver infection or identify differences in disease
progression in relation to specific HCV subtypes."  The corresponding author
for this study is:  G Tagariello, Castelfranco Veneto Hosp, Ctr Blood Dis, Ctr
Haemophilia, I-31033 Castelfranco Vene, Italy.  For subscription information
for this journal contact the publisher:  Blackwell Science Ltd, Osney Mead,
Oxford, Oxon, England OX2 0EL.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Hemophilia (HCV)
Chambost, H.; Gerolami, V.; Halfon, P.; Thuret, I.; Michel, G.; Sicardi, F.;
Rousseau, S.; Perrimond, H.; Cartouzou, G.  "Persistent Hepatitis C Virus RNA
Replication in Haemophiliacs:  Role of Co-Infection with Human

Immunodeficiency Virus."  British Journal of Haematology, November
1995;91(3):703-707.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in British Journal
of Haematology, "In order to evaluate the evolution of transfusional hepatitis
C in haemophiliacs, we performed a retrospective study of ALT levels and HCV
viraemia with a RNA PCR assay in 57 patients.  We found that the vast majority
of HCV-infected patients remained viraemic (43/57= 75%) and higher ALT levels
correlated with HCV viraemia.  Although indicators of the transfusional viral
load (age, severity of haemophilia) and HBV co-infection did not correlate
with HCV RNA replication, HIV seropositivity was strongly associated with
persistence of HCV viraemia (23/25 = 92% in HIV-positive versus 20/32 = 62% in
HIV-negative patients), without any correlation with CD4 counts.  Genotyping
of HCV in the 43 viraemic patients shows more frequent genotype 1 in the
HIV-seropositive group (14/23) than in the seronegative group (6/20).  Our
data emphasize that besides the role of the immunodeficiency status, the
genotypes of HCV might be involved in the differences observed in terms of HCV
RNA replication between the HIV-seropositive and seronegative haemophiliacs."
The corresponding author for this study is:  H Chambost, Chu Timone, Hop
Enfants La Timone, Serv Hematol Pediat, 285 Blvd Jean Moulin, F-13385
Marseille 05, France.  For subscription information for this journal contact
the publisher:  Blackwell Science Ltd, Osney Mead, Oxford, Oxon, England OX2
0EL.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Tissue Banking (Ocular)
Moyes, A.L.; Holland, E.J.; Palmon, F.E.; Dvorak, J.A.; Doughman, D.J.
"Tissue Utilization at the Minnesota Lions' Eye Bank."  Cornea, November
1995;14(6):571-577.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Cornea, "The
purpose of this study was to examine the utilization of corneas procured by
the Minnesota Lions' Eye Bank to determine why corneas were excluded from
transplantation and to identify methods to safely increase the number of
tissues made available for transplantation.  We performed a retrospective
review of the eye bank charts of 2,382 corneas evaluated by the Minnesota
Lions' Eye Bank between December 1, 1992 and November 30, 1993.  During that
time 748 corneas (31%) were made available for transplantation; 1,597 (67%)
were directed toward research or training.  Thirty-seven corneas (1.5%) were
disposed of for safety reasons.  Six hundred and sixty of the corneas which
were excluded from transplantation (40%) were excluded for a donor aged over
75 years.  Three hundred and ninety-one corneas (24%) were rejected because of
a contraindication in the donor's past ocular or medical history.  Another 395
corneas (24%) were excluded for poor tissue quality.  The most common reason
for exclusion of tissue based on tissue quality was abnormalities seen on
specular microscopic examination (200 corneas).  Of interest, only 14 corneas
were rejected for low endothelial cell counts.  This review of our tissue
evaluation process has led us to reevaluate and change our policy regarding
exclusion of corneas for epithelial defects and arcus senilis.  These data
suggest that further evaluation of the abnormalities seen on specular
microscopic examination and their validity as exclusion criteria should be
undertaken.  Other areas for further evaluation are how to improve the
timeliness of tissue procurement and whether excluding all tissues over age 75
years and all postsurgical eyes is valid."  The corresponding author for this
study is:  EJ Holland, Univ Minnesota, Dept Ophthalmol, Cornea Serv, Box 493
Umhc, 420 Delaware St Se, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  Raven Press, 227 East
Washington Sq, Philadelphia, PA 19106.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transfusion (Wound Drainage Blood)
Southern, E.P.; Huo, M.H.; Mehta, J.R.; Keggi, K.J.  "Unwashed Wound Drainage
Blood:  What Are We Giving Our Patients?"  Clinical Orthopaedics and Related
Research, November 1995;(320):235-246.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Clinical
Orthopaedics and Related Research, "Wound drainage blood was collected after
total joint arthroplasty was completed in 13 consecutive patients.  Peripheral
blood samples were collected in the recovery room and at 6 hours
postoperatively for all 13 patients.  A standard enzyme-linked immunosorbency
assay was done to quantify tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1 alpha,
interleukin-6, and interleukin-8 levels in the samples.  At 6 hours
postoperatively, the levels of cytokines were elevated significantly in the
peripheral and drainage blood serum.  In particular, the drainage blood serum
had the most dramatic increase for all cytokines, which was significant.
Reinfusion of unwashed filtered postoperative wound drainage blood has been
shown not to be entirely benign; pyrogenic transfusion reaction is the most
commonly reported adverse effect, but hemodynamic instability with hypotension
and even myocardial infarction have been reported.  The cause of these adverse
events has not been defined clearly, but may be secondary to the infusion of
cytokines.  The present study showed the presence and significant elevation of
the cytokine levels in the wound drainage blood.  A comprehensive review of
the literature revealed that unwashed drainage blood is a relatively dilute
blood product lacking normal clotting factors and having numerous other
undesirable components that may mitigate against its routine use in lieu of
predeposited autologous or homologous blood.  This is of interest because
there is evidence indicating that wound drainage blood reinfusion may be
unnecessary in total joint arthroplasty when autologous blood is available.
Use of drains in this surgery also may be unnecessary and has been shown to
increase the amount of blood loss and the need for transfusion."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  EP Southern, Yale Univ, Sch Med, Dept
Orthopaed Surg & Rehabil, POB 208071, New Haven, CT 06520 USA.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:
Lippincott-Raven Publ, 227 East Washington Square, Philadelphia, PA 19106.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
BLOOD WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

MEETINGS REPORT
*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY


January 15-21, 1996, Keystone, CO, "Blood Stem Cell and Bone Marrow
Transplants."  Information:  Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO
80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

January 17-18, 1996, Dallas, TX, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

January 19-20, 1996, Englewood, CO, "Strategies/Innovations in Transfusion
Medicine."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

January 23-25, 1996, Charlotte, NC, "Quality Engineering/current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)."  Information:  AABB Education Department,
8101 Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax
301-907-6895.

January 24, 1996, Madrid, Spain, "International Meeting on Ribavirin Therapy."
Information:  Christina Quiong, Program Director, KPR InforMedia, 212-856-8881
or 212-856-8487.

January 25-27, 1996, Madrid, Spain, "7th International Symposium on Viral
Hepatitis."  Information:  Dr.  Inmaculada Castillo, Scientific Secretary,
Hepatology Unit, Fundacion Jimenez Diaz, Avenida Reyes Catolicos 2, E-28040
Madrid, Spain, Phone 34-1-543-19-64, Fax 34-1-544-92-28.

January 26-27, 1996, Palmetto, FL, "7th Annual:  Until There Is a Cure."
Information:  AIDS Manasota, Inc.  Conference, 2080 Ringling Blvd., Suite 302,
Sarasota, FL 34237-7030, Phone 941-954-6011, Fax 941-951-1721.

* January 28 - February 1, 1996, Washington, DC, "3rd National Conference on
Human Retroviruses and Related Infections."  Information:  Infectious Disease
Society of America 703-299-0200.

January 28 - February 2, 1996, Vail, CO, "Infectious Diseases in Clinical
Practice."  Information:  University of California, Postgraduate Programs,
Department of Medicine, 1383 9th Avenue, UCSF Box 0656, San Francisco, CA
94143-0656, Phone 415-476-5808.

February 2-4, 1996, Newport Beach, CA, "Sixth International Conference on
Lymphocyte Activation and Immune Regulation:  Cell Cycle and Programmed Cell
Death in the Immune System."  Information:  Miss Nancy J.  Doman, Conference
Secretariat, Room C240, Med Sci I/University of California, Irvine, CA
92717-4069, Phone 714-824-5818, Fax 714-824-4362.

February 4-10, 1996, Taos, NM, "Gene Therapy for Hematopoietic Stem Cells in
Genetic Disease and Cancer."  Information:  Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630,
Silverthorne, CO 80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

* February 11-15, 1996, Bethesda, MD, "Advances in AIDS Vaccine Development:
Eighth Annual Meeting of the National Cooperative Vaccine Development Groups
(NCVDGs) for AIDS."  Information:  Marta Glass 303-402-0121 or Elaine Matzen
301-496-6177 or Susan Wescott 301-496-8200.

February 12-13, 1996, Washington, DC, "Second Annual SEPSIS/SIRS:  Reducing
Mortality to Patients & Suppliers."  Information:  Cambridge Healthtech
Institute, 1037 Chestnut Street, Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone
617-630-1300, Fax 617-630-1325.

February 13-14, 1996, St.  Louis, MO, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

February 15-18, 1996, Geneva, Switzerland, "2nd International Conference on
New Trends in Clinical and Experimental Immunosuppression."  Information:
Secretariat, 2nd International Conference on New Trends in Clinical and
Experimental Immunosuppression, Kuoni Congress, P.O.  Box 1731, 7 Rue de
Berne, CH-1211, Geneva 1, Switzerland, Phone +41 22 908 1811, Fax +41 22 731
5078.

February 16-18, 1996, New York, NY, "Second Annual CME Course for the
Management of the HIV Infected Patient:  A Practical Approach for the Primary
Care Practitioner."  Information:  Center for Bio-Medical Communication, Inc.,
80 West Madison Avenue, Dumont, NJ 07628, Phone 201-385-8080, Fax
201-385-5650.

February 16-22, 1996, Taos, NM, "The Hematopoietic Microenvironment, and
Molecular Regulation of Platelet Production."  Information:  Keystone
Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO 80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax
303-262-1525.

February 19-22, 1996, La Jolla, CA, "Clinical Hematology and Oncology 1996
Conference."  Information:  Department of Academic Affairs, Box 403C, Scripps
Clinic and Research Foundation, 10666 North Torrey Pines Rd., La Jolla, CA
92037, Phone 619-554-8556, Fax 619-554-6310.

* February 26-27, 1996, Rockville, MD, "IBC's 3rd Annual Conference on
Vaccines:  New Advances in Technologies and Applications."  Information:  IBC
USA Conferences, Inc., 225 Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone
508-481-6400.

February 27-29, 1996, Redondo Beach, CA, "Quality Engineering/current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)."  Information:  AABB Education Department,
8101 Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax
301-907-6895.

March 1-2, 1996, Washington, DC, "Transfusion Practices in HIV Infected
Persons."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 5-7, 1996, Shanghai, China, "1996 Shanghai International Symposium on
Liver Cancer and Hepatitis."  Information:  Zhao-You Tang, M.D., Chairman,
1996 Shanghai International Symposium on Liver Cancer and Hepatitis, c/o Liver
Cancer Institute, Shanghai Medical University, 136 Yi Xue Yuan Rd., Shanghai
200032, P.R.  China, Phone and Fax 86-21-403-7181.

* March 7-8, 1996, Washington, DC, "IBC's Biennial International Conference on
Mycobacterial Infection:  Pathogenesis, Prevention and Strategies for New Drug
and Vaccine Development."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

March 13-14, 1996, Washington, DC, "cGMP for Hospital Blood Banks and
Transfusion Services."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101
Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 19-22, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "8th National AIDS Update Conference."
Information:  NAUC 96 Conference Registrar, c/o KREBS Convention Management
Services, 555 DeHaro Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94107-2348, Phone
415-255-1297, Fax 415-255-2244.

March 20-22, 1996, Lake Buena Vista, FL, "97th Annual Meeting:  American
Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics."  Information:  Elaine
Galasso, Executive Director, ASCPT, 1718 Gallagher Rd., Norristown, PA
19401-2800, Phone 610-825-3838, Fax 610-834-8652.

March 26-28, 1996, Chicago, IL, "Quality Engineering/current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)."  Information:  AABB Education Department,
8101 Glenbrook Road, Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax
301-907-6895.

March 29-30, 1996, Dallas, TX, "1996 National Blood Inventory Management
Conference."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

March 29-31, 1996, London, United Kingdom, "Acting on AIDS:  The Institute of
Contemporary Arts & The Terrence Higgins Trust."  Information:  Keith Rudkin
or Helena Reckitt, The Institute of Contemporary Arts, Phone 0171 873 0052.

March 29 - April 3, 1996, La Jolla, CA, "Tissue Sealants:  Current Practice,
Future Uses."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton
Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

April 14-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology - Annual Meeting."  Information:  Experimental Biology
1996, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3998, Phone 301-530-7010.

* May 3-6, 1996, Washington, DC, "Biomedicine '96:  Medical Research from
Bench to Bedside."  Information:  Editor-in-Chief, National Office 6900 Grove
Road, Thorofare, NJ 08086-9447, Phone 609-848-1000, Fax 609-848-5274.

May 4-10, 1996, Bethesda, MD, "In Vitro Hematotoxicology, Drug Development,
and Regulatory Approval."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut
St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

May 19-23, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "95th American Society for Microbiology
General Meeting."  Information:  American Society for Microbiology, 1325
Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171, Phone 202-737-3600.

May 29 - June 1, 1996, Paris, France, "Second Meeting of the European
Haematology Association."  Information:  Scientific Secretariat, IMEDEX,
Bruistensingel 360, P.O.  Box 3283, N-5203 DG's Hertogenbosch, The
Netherlands.

June 2-6, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "American Association of
Immunologists/American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology/American
Association of Investigative Pathology."  Information:  Mr.  Raymond Palmer,
Exec.  Dir., AAI, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3994, Phone
301-530-7178, Fax 301-571-1816.

June 10-13, 1996, Hong Kong, "7th International Congress for Infectious
Diseases:  a Collaboration of the World Health Organization, the International
Society for Infectious Diseases and the Dept.  of Microbiology, Faculty of
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong."  Information:  Norman R.
Stein, Exec.  Dir., ISID, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, MA 02115, Phone
617-277-0551, Fax 617-731-1541.

June 19-21, 1996, Philadelphia, PA, "Endotoxemia and Sepsis:  Innovative R & D
Strategies for Prevention and Treatment."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences,
Inc., 225 Turnpike Rd., Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
481-7911.

July 13-16, 1996, Portsmouth, New Hampshire, "The American Heart Association's
Health & Science Journalists Forum."  Information:  Jane Carl, Phone
214-706-1173.

August 5-7, 1996, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, "VI International Symposium on
Blood Substitutes."  Information:  VI International Symposium on Blood
Substitutes, c/o Artificial Cells & Organs Research Centre, Faculty of
Medicine, McGill University, 3655 Drummond Street, Room 1006, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada H3G1Y6, Fax 514-398-4983.

August 25-29, 1996, Singapore, "26th Congress of the International Society of
Haematology."  Information:  ISH 1996 Singapore, c/o CEMS Pte Ltd, 1 Maritime
Square, #09-43 World Trade Centre, Singapore 0409, Phone 65-278-8666, Fax
65-278-4077.

August 27-30, 1996, Nagoya, Japan, "14th International Scientific Meeting of
the International Epidemiological Association:  Global Health in a Changing
Environment."  Information:  14th ISM Secretariat, Dept.  of Preventive
Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku,
Nagoya 466, Japan, Phone 81-52-741-2111, ext.  2074, Fax 81-52-733-6729.

October 2-6, 1996, San Diego, CA, "Novel Approaches in Blood and Marrow
Transplantation:  2nd Annual Meeting of the American Society for Blood and
Marrow Transplantation."  Information:  American Association for Cancer
Research, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West,
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

October 4-6, 1996, Groningen, The Netherlands, "20th International Symposium
on Blood Transfusion:  Trigger Factors in Transfusion Medicine."  Information:
Symposium Secretary, Red Cross Blood Bank Groningen-Drenthe, P.O.  Box 1191,
9701 BD Groningen, The Netherlands, Phone/Fax 31-0-50-137777.

October 12-17, 1996, Orlando, FL, "49th Annual Meeting, American Association
of Blood Banks."  Information:  AABB Meeting Services, 8101 Glenbrook Rd.,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-907-6977, Fax 301-907-6895.

November 3-6, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "1996 Annual Meeting, American Society of
Nephrology."  Information:  Phone 202-857-1138, Fax 202-223-4579.

December 6-10, 1996, Orlando, FL, "38th Annual Meeting of the American Society
of Hematology."  Information:  ASH, 1101 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Ste.  700,
Washington, DC 20036, Phone 202-857-1118.

October 18-23, 1997, Dallas, TX, "50th Annual Meeting, American Association of
Blood Banks."  Information:  AABB Meeting Services, 8101 Glenbrook Rd.,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-907-6977, Fax 301-907-6895.

December 5-9, 1997, San Diego, CA, "39th Annual Meeting, American Society of
Hematology."  Information:  ASH, 1101 Connecticut Ave.  NW, Suite 700,
Washington, DC 20036, Phone 202-857-1118.

October 31 - November 5, 1998, Philadelphia, Pa, "51st Annual Meeting,
American Association of Blood Banks."  Information:  AABB Meeting Services,
8101 Glenbrook Rd., Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-907-6977, Fax
301-907-6895.

December 4-8, 1998, Miami Beach, FL, "40th Annual Meeting, American Society of
Hematology."  Information:  ASH, 1101 Connecticut Ave.  NW, Suite 700,
Washington, DC 20036, Phone 202-857-1118.

November 6-11, 1999, San Francisco, CA, "52nd Annual Meeting, American
Association of Blood Banks."  Information:  AABB Meeting Services, 8101
Glenbrook Rd., Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-907-6977, Fax 301-907-6895.

December 3-7, 1999, New Orleans, LA, "41st Annual Meeting, American Society of
Hematology."  Information:  ASH, 1101 Connecticut Ave.  NW, Suite 700,
Washington, DC 20036, Phone 202-857-1118.

November 4-9, 2000, Washington, DC, "53rd Annual Meeting, American Association
of Blood Banks."  Information:  AABB Meeting Services, 8101 Glenbrook Rd.,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-907-6977, Fax 301-907-6895.

December 1-5, 2000, San Francisco, CA, "42nd Annual Meeting, American Society
of Hematology."  Information:  ASH, 1101 Connecticut Ave.  NW, Suite 700,
Washington, DC 20036, Phone 202-857-1118.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-6</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-205</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh49.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022051 text/html 54202
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:19:00 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:20 GMT
Content-length: 54013
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh49.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet <BR>
January 9, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>JUDGE POINTER APPROVES&nbsp;NEW GLOBAL SETTLEMENT;&nbsp;FIVE PLAINTIFFS OBJECT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(613 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>DOW CHEMICAL'S MOTION&nbsp;FOR RECONSIDERATION IS&nbsp;DENIED BY JUDGE POINTER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(234 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>COURT DISMISSES SEVEN&nbsp;CANADIAN SUITS FOR&nbsp;FORUM NON CONVENIENS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(367 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>DOW DEFENDANTS, 3M&nbsp;FILE REPLY BRIEFS&nbsp;WITH SIXTH CIRCUIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(507 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>SIXTH CIRCUIT BRIEFS, PART II</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(472 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>DCC SETTLES WITH HMR,&nbsp;DOW CHEMICAL; ASKS&nbsp;COURT TO OK AGREEMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(414 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>TORT COMMITTEE SEEKS TO&nbsp;DISQUALIFY KIRKLAND &&nbsp;ELLIS AS DCC COUNSEL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(399 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>OBJECTIONS FILED&nbsp;TO PROPOSED MAY 1&nbsp;BAR DATE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(434 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>BAR DATE OBJECTIONS, PART II</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(418 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>BAR DATE OBJECTIONS, PART III</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(545 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>NY PLAINTIFFS SEEK TO&nbsp;LIFT AUTOMATIC STAY&nbsp;TO LIQUIDATE CLAIMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(273 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>DCC OBJECTS TO FEE&nbsp;APPLICATIONS, HEARING&nbsp;SET FOR JAN. 18</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(315 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>DCC SEEKS PERMISSION TO&nbsp;GIVE IMPLANT SAMPLES TO&nbsp;UNIVERSITY FOR STUDY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(204 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>JUDGE ALLOWS DCC TO&nbsp;EXTEND CANADIAN&nbsp;LIMITATIONS PERIOD</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(212 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>CANADIAN SUPREME COURT&nbsp;UPHOLDS DCC'S LIABILITY&nbsp;IN BREAST IMPLANT SUIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(699 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>HOLLIS, PART II</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(510 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>OR JUDGE PARTIALLY&nbsp;DISMISSES SUIT OVER&nbsp;CONFIDENTIAL AGREEMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(517 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>THIES, PART II</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(449 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

JUDGE POINTER APPROVES
NEW GLOBAL SETTLEMENT;
FIVE PLAINTIFFS OBJECT

     Five plaintiffs in the Lindsey class action on Jan. 9 filed
a motion for reconsideration with the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Alabama, following Judge Sam C. Pointer
Jr.'s Dec. 22 order approving the revised global settlement of
breast implant claims.  In re Silicone Gel Breast Implants
Products Liability Litigation, No. 926 (J.P.M.L.), No. CV 92-P-
10000-S (ND AL); Lindsey et al. v. Dow Corning Corp. et al.,
No. CV 94-P-11558-S; see Breast Implant Litigation Reporter,
Nov. 28, 1995.

     The plaintiffs contend that Order No. 27 is void on
procedural grounds and violates the plaintiffs' substantive legal
rights.

     The original $4.2 billion global settlement, approved by
Judge Pointer in 1994, collapsed when many more women than
expected sought benefits.  The new settlement, which includes
defendants Bristol-Myers Squibb, Baxter Healthcare, Minnesota
Mining & Manufacturing, McGhan Medical Corp. and Union Carbide,
calls for lower payments and includes more restrictive criteria
that claimants must meet to qualify for benefits.  However, the
payment levels set forth in the new settlement will not be
affected by the number of women who seek benefits.

     Under the new agreement, eligible participants are domestic
class members who have had at least one implant manufactured or
distributed by one of the settling defendants or their
predecessors or subsidiaries.  There are no provisions for
foreign claimants under the settlement, nor are children of
implant recipients eligible to participate with regard to their
own personal injury claims.  Claimants who previously opted out
of the original settlement have until Dec. 16, 1996, to withdraw
their exclusion and to register with the Claims Office.

     In his order, Judge Pointer said, "The Court concludes that,
for eligible participants, this revised settlement program
reduces the amount of 'ratcheting' that would otherwise occur
under terms of the Settlement and that, for persons not eligible
to participate, it preserves their rights under the Settlement to
opt out and, indeed, by providing some options to continue and
extend the suspension of statutes of limitation and repose, it
partially enhances those rights."

     In a separate order also issued Dec. 22, Judge Pointer
approved a question-and-answer booklet and list of implant brand
names that will be distributed as part of the notice program to
all claimants who have given their names and addresses to the
court, whether they are currently members of the Lindsey class or
have opted out of the original settlement.

     The five plaintiffs seeking to overturn the order are
Christina Johanna Adelaar, Johanna Maria Jagt-Hamerslag, Kathy
Lambert, Maria Engelhart-Nelissen and Nancy Pulcini.  According
to the motion, four are citizens of foreign countries and are not
eligible for benefits under the revised settlement, and the fifth
is a member of the Lindsey class who claims she will be prevented
from obtaining a prompt settlement of her claims if she opts out.

     The plaintiffs object that Judge Pointer issued the order
sua sponte, without a motion by any party, contrary to Rule 60(b)
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.  Further, the plaintiffs
assert, they are entitled to an evidentiary hearing before the
1994 order approving the global settlement is revised or vacated.
Finally, they argue, Order No. 27 is void because appeals from
the 1994 order are before the 11th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals,
which must grant leave for the order to be modified.

     Order No. 27 violates the Fifth Amendment and equal
protection rights of the foreign plaintiffs, who were eligible
for benefits under the original settlement and who have relied
upon the 1994 order, the plaintiffs say.

     The motion was filed by Sybil Shainwald of the Law Offices
of Sybil Shainwald in New York City.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

DOW CHEMICAL'S MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION IS
DENIED BY JUDGE POINTER

     Judge Sam C. Pointer Jr.'s order denying Dow Chemical's
motion for summary judgment on claims that it should be held
liable for alleged illnesses caused by Dow Corning's manufacture
of silicone gel breast implants will stand, the judge ruled in a
Dec. 26 order denying Dow's motion for reconsideration.  In re
Silicone Gel Breast Implants Products Liability Litigation,
No. 926 (J.P.M.L.), No. CV 92-P-10000-S (ND AL); see Breast
Implant Litigation Reporter, Aug. 8, 1995.

     Judge Pointer originally granted Dow Chemical's motion,
saying that the company had no special knowledge of alleged
hazards of Dow Corning's implants that would obligate Dow
Chemical to warn end users of the implants.  Dow Chemical and
Corning, Inc. are the sole shareholders of Dow Corning.

     However, Judge Pointer later vacated that order, finding new
evidence of Dow Chemical's involvement in the testing of
silicones that Dow Corning used in implant products.  Dow
Chemical sought reconsideration, contending that it performed
only two tests on a silicone compound for Dow Corning, and that
neither test involved suitability for medical implants.

     In his order, Judge Pointer said his ruling should stand
because there is no new evidence or change in the law that would
warrant vacating it.  He rejected Dow Chemical's claims that the
issue should be whether Dow Chemical specifically tested breast
implants, not just raw silicone, and that holding Dow Chemical
liable would violate public policy.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

COURT DISMISSES SEVEN
CANADIAN SUITS FOR
FORUM NON CONVENIENS

     Seven suits filed in the United States by Canadian women who
received breast implants in Canada were dismissed Dec. 26 from
the multidistrict litigation in Alabama on the basis of forum non
conveniens.  In re Silicone Gel Breast Implants Products
Liability Litigation, No. 926 (J.P.M.L.), No. CV 92-P-10000-S
(ND AL).

     U.S. District Judge Sam C. Pointer Jr. cited the reasons
given in his April 25, 1995, order dismissing nearly all cases
filed by foreign plaintiffs, including two suits filed by
Canadian citizens (see Breast Implant Litigation Reporter,
April 28, 1995).

     The seven suits are: Ellis et al. v. Baxter Healthcare Corp.
et al., No. CV 93-P-14114-S; Pollyck et al. v. Baxter Healthcare
Corp. et al., No. CV 94-P-14115-S; Davis et al. v. Baxter
Healthcare Corp. et al., No. CV 93-P-14408-S; Martin et al. v.
Baxter Healthcare Corp. et al., No. CV 93-P-14409-S; Walker v.
McGhan Medical Corp., No. CV-94-P-10521-S; Chapin v. McGhan
Medical Corp et al., No. CV 94-P-11335-S; and two plaintiffs from
McIver et al. v. Dow Corning Corp. et al., No. CV 94-P-14600-S.
The suits were initially filed in Texas state court, removed to
federal court and ultimately transferred to the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Alabama, which is overseeing
all federal breast implant litigation.

     In his April 25 order, Judge Pointer found that foreign
claimants from Canada, Australia and England have adequate
remedies available to them in their own court systems, and
therefore may not file suit in the United States.

     Judge Pointer's most recent order contains the same
conditions as the April 25 order with respect to the defendants,
namely that:

     " Each defendant will submit to jurisdiction in Canada and
accept service of process there;

     " Each defendant will be bound to pay any final judgment
against it;

     " If raising a statute of limitations defense, the
defendants will not include the period the suit was pending in
the United States; and

     " The defendants will not object to offered evidence that
would be admissible in a U.S. court.

     Judge Pointer also said his order is without prejudice to
plaintiffs filing proofs of claim in the Dow Corning bankruptcy.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

DOW DEFENDANTS, 3M
FILE REPLY BRIEFS
WITH SIXTH CIRCUIT

     Transfer of cases against Dow Corning's shareholders, Dow
Chemical and Corning Inc., to the Eastern District of Michigan
will not bring breast implant litigation against the shareholders
to a grinding halt as breast implant plaintiffs claim, Dow
Corning and the shareholders told the Sixth Circuit U.S. Court of
Appeals in a Dec. 11 reply brief.  In re Dow Corning Corp.;
Lindsey v. O'Brien, Tanski, Tanser and Young et al., Nos. 95-
2034, 95-2106, 95-2082, 95-2084, and 95-2107 (6th Cir.); see
Breast Implant Litigation Reporter, Dec. 26, 1995.

     In a separate brief, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.
contended that the appellees are raising "red herring" issues to
confuse the court into ignoring the substantive issues.

     Earlier, the law firm of O'Quinn, Kerensky, McAninch &
Laminack, representing some 2,000 women who have opted out of the
global settlement of breast implant claims, argued that Dow
Corning Corp. is using a ruse to get cases against its non-
bankrupt parents transferred to the Eastern District of
Michigan.

     In a separate brief, the firm argues that 3M, Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. and Baxter Healthcare Corp. are not entitled to have
their cases transferred.

     Dow Corning Corp., one of the numerous defendants named in
breast implant lawsuits, filed for bankruptcy protection last May
in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
and sought transfer of the cases against it to the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan.  Co-defendants named
in lawsuits with Dow Corning also sought transfer, arguing that
their cases are "related to" the Dow Corning bankruptcy.  U.S.
District Judge Denise Page Hood ruled on Sept. 12 that her court
does not have jurisdiction over breast implant claims against
nondebtor defendants.  The manufacturers appealed to the Sixth
Circuit.

     "Dow Chemical and Corning, Inc., not being in bankruptcy,
had no right to the benefits of the bankruptcy procedures," the
plaintiffs argue.  "Their lawyers, knowing this, filed no motion
to transfer because as non-bankrupt companies they had no
standing to file such a motion.  Thus, they got their subsidiary,
Dow Corning, to do it for them.  This ruse should not work.
These efforts to smuggle a transfer order for Dow Chemical and
Corning, Inc., should be rejected for the same reasons that the
motions to transfer filed by Bristol, Baxter and 3M should be
rejected."

     Responding to the arguments of 3M, Bristol-Myers Squibb and
Baxter, the plaintiffs contend that these companies are seeking
unprecedented court action that has never been allowed in any
mass tort bankruptcy case, including the asbestos-related
bankruptcies and the bankruptcy of intrauterine device maker A.H.
Robins.

     In addition, the plaintiffs contend, the companies' appeals
can be interpreted as seeking relief they never requested from
Judge Hood " the transfer of all breast implant cases against
them, not only cases in which Dow Corning is a co-defendant.

     Finally, the plaintiffs contend the manufacturers are
improperly seeking de novo review of Judge Hood's decision,
ignoring their burden of showing that Judge Hood's factual
findings were clearly erroneous.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

SIXTH CIRCUIT BRIEFS, PART II

     Dow Corning, Dow Chemical and Corning Inc., in their reply
brief, reiterate their argument that transfer is necessary so
that claims against Dow Corning and the shareholders can be kept
together and pretrial proceedings can take place in an organized
and efficient manner.  Transfer is not an attempt to shield Dow
Chemical and Corning from tort liability, they argue.

     Responding to arguments raised by a group of California
plaintiffs, the Dow defendants argued that Judge Hood did not "
as the plaintiffs claim " remand the cases to state court
herself, but she merely advised the various federal courts to do
so when the cases returned to them.  For that reason, they also
found fault with the California plaintiffs' argument that the
appeals court lacks jurisdiction because orders remanding cases
to state courts are not appealable.

     Finally, Dow Chemical and Corning contend that, contrary to
appellees' arguments, they have standing to appeal.

     3M, in its reply brief, contends that the appellees are
attempting to divert the court's attention from the real issues
with arguments that transfer is a ruse to thwart breast implant
claims.  It is the plaintiffs' bar, not the nondebtor defendants,
who are trying to take "improper tactical advantage " of the Dow
Corning bankruptcy, 3M asserts.

     "Appellees' arguments on this appeal are further belied by
one inescapable fact " it was the plaintiffs' bar that filed
actions naming the Nondebtor Manufacturers and DCC as joint
tortfeasors in the breast implant lawsuits," 3M states.  "It was
the plaintiffs' bar that pursued the tactic of suing all of the
Manufacturers jointly and severally, asserting in many cases that
women had received implants from multiple manufacturers and that
the Manufacturers had allegedly conspired to withhold from women
information concerning the alleged health risks of such implants.
It is thus remarkable that Appellees now argue that the breast
implant claims they chose to assert against the Nondebtor
Manufacturers and DCC on a theory of joint and several liability
have somehow become unrelated cases that should be tried
separately now that DCC is in reorganization."

     The plaintiffs' briefs were filed by John M. O'Quinn,
Richard N. Laminack and Thomas W. Pirtle of O'Quinn, Kerensky,
McAninch & Laminack in Houston.

     3M is represented by Bruce R. Zirinsky and Greg A. Danilow
of Weil, Gotshal & Manges in New York City; and by Richard A.
Kitch, Susan H. Zitterman and John P. Hessburg of Kitch,
Drutchas, Wagner & Kenney in Detroit.

     Dow Corning is represented by Barbara J. Houser and George
H. Tarpley of Sheinfeld, Maley & Kay in Dallas.  Dow Chemical is
represented by Herbert L. Zarov, James C. Schroeder and Theresa
A. Canaday of Mayer, Brown & Platt in Chicago.  Corning is
represented by William D. Eggers of Nixon Hargrave Devans & Doyle
in Rochester, NY.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

DCC SETTLES WITH HMR,
DOW CHEMICAL; ASKS
COURT TO OK AGREEMENT

     Dow Corning Corp. on Dec. 27 asked the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Bay City, MI, to approve a settlement it reached with Hoechst
Marion Roussel (HMR) and Dow Chemical Co. that would resolve
HMR's objections to the debtor's proposed settlements with
numerous insurance companies over coverage for breast implant
claims.  In re Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.);
see Breast Implant Litigation Reporter, Dec. 26, 1995.

     Hearings on the insurance settlements were conducted on
several dates in early December, but were continued pending
approval of the settlement with HMR and Dow Chemical.

     Dow Corning is seeking court approval of settlement
agreements with Zurich Insurance Co. and Zurich International
Ltd.; TIG Insurance Co. and certain other insurers; the London
Market Insurers; National Casualty Co.; Arab Insurance Co.;
Federal Insurance Co.; North River Insurance Co., United States
Fire Insurance Co. and International Surplus Lines Insurance Co.
(the North River Insurers); Algemene Verzekering Maatschappij
Diligentia N.V. Te Amsterdam; and Ludgate Insurance Co.

     HMR and Dow Chemical are named co-insureds on some of the
policies issued by these companies.  They objected to the
proposed settlements, arguing that any disbursements to Dow
Corning would reduce the amount of coverage available to them and
that the bankruptcy court did not have jurisdiction to approve
such a settlement.

     Dow Corning says it has reached a settlement that will
resolve the objections of HMR and Dow Chemical.  According to the
Dec. 27 motion, HMR will relinquish any claims to the insurance
policies that compete with Dow Corning's breast implant claims,
in exchange for payments of 2% to 2-1/2% of funds recovered by
Dow Corning or Dow Chemical under the policies.  HMR will also
drop its objections to the pending insurance settlements, as well
as the previously approved Hartford and Royal settlements, which
are now on appeal.

     The settlement between Dow Corning and Dow Chemical calls
for establishment of an escrow fund that will contain the
proceeds of cash settlements between Dow Corning and the insurers
for policies in which Dow Chemical is a co-insured.  The
agreement calls for limits on disbursement of the funds or
determination of rights to the funds until after Dow Corning's
Chapter 11 plan of reorganization is confirmed, and sets the
conditions under which Dow Corning and Dow Chemical can access
the funds to pay claims.

     Dow Corning's motion was filed by Barbara J. Houser, Craig
J. Litherland and David P. McClain of Sheinfeld, Maley & Kay in
Dallas.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

TORT COMMITTEE SEEKS TO
DISQUALIFY KIRKLAND &
ELLIS AS DCC COUNSEL

     Kirkland & Ellis must be disqualified from representing
debtor Dow Corning Corp. because the firm's simultaneous
representation of Dow Chemical Co., one of Dow Corning's parents,
poses a "significant and unacceptable" conflict of interest, the
Official Committee of Tort Claimants argued Dec. 27 in a motion
filed with the bankruptcy court in Bay City, MI.  In re Dow
Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.).

     The committee says Kirkland & Ellis (K&E) was approved by
the bankruptcy court as special counsel to the debtor under 11
U.S.C. Section 327(e), based in part on its assurance that its
simultaneous representation of Dow Chemical would not be a
conflict of interest.  Now, however, the committee claims,
"recent developments have illustrated that K&E's representations
are no longer correct."

     First, the committee argues, K&E is representing both Dow
Corning and Dow Chemical in the insurance coverage litigation in
the bankruptcy court and in Michigan state court.  The two
companies are attempting to access the same policies, under which
they are co-insureds " Dow Chemical for claims relating to its
Sarabond building material and Dow Corning for breast implant
claims, the committee says.  Allowing one company's claims will
necessarily deplete assets available to the other, the committee
states.

     The committee also notes that the two companies are taking
conflicting positions on liability for breast implant claims: Dow
Corning argues that Dow Chemical should share any liability,
while Dow Chemical contends that Dow Corning alone is
responsible.

     Most recently, the committee states, K&E, in its role as Dow
Chemical's counsel, is preparing to depose Dow Corning employees
whose depositions the firm defended in the breast implant
litigation.

     "The Debtor appears remarkably sanguine about the prospect
of its own principal defense counsel in effect litigating against
it on issues with a potential billion-dollar impact on the
estate," the committee says.  "...Since the Debtor seems
incapable of policing such conflicts, it is appropriate for the
Committee, as fiduciary for significant interests in the estate,
to bring the issue before the Court."

     The Tort Claimants Committee is represented by Alfred S.
Lurey and Dennis S. Meir of Kilpatrick & Cody in Atlanta; Marvin
E. Frankel, Kenneth H. Eckstein and Jeffrey S. Trachtman of
Kramer, Levin, Naftalis, Nessen, Kamin & Frankel in New York
City; and Lenard M. Parkins and Patrick L. Hughes of Verner,
Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand in Houston.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

OBJECTIONS FILED
TO PROPOSED MAY 1
BAR DATE

     The Official Committee of Tort Claimants, the Official
Committee of Unsecured Creditors, Minnesota Mining and
Manufacturing Co., Medical Engineering Corp. and Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (the MEC defendants), Baxter Healthcare Corp. and
Baxter International, and several Blue Cross/Blue Shield health
plans all filed responses in the Bay City, MI, bankruptcy court
Dec. 19 and 20 to Dow Corning's proposed bar date of May 1, 1996.
In re Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.); see Breast
Implant Litigation Reporter, Dec. 12, 1995.

     Dow Corning on Dec. 1 filed a motion seeking a deadline of
May 1, 1996, for filing proofs of claim against its bankruptcy
estate, and seeking court permission to use claim forms that
differ from the official forms.  In addition, the company filed
its proposed plan to notify all potential creditors and personal
injury claimants of the deadline.

Tort Claimants Committee

     The Tort Claimants Committee contends that a bar date for
breast implant claims will waste assets of Dow Corning's estate
while providing no new or useful information.

     "A bar date for these claims would be expensive, costing
almost $7 million for the Debtor's proposed notice program and
undoubtedly many millions more for the processing and review of
filed claims, and would delay this case for many months," the
committee states.  "A breast implant bar date would improvidently
cut off the claims of many thousands of Breast Implant Recipients
who could far more effectively be reached by notice at a later
and more appropriate stage in the reorganization."

     The value of breast implant claims can be calculated using
currently available information, the committee says.

     Setting a bar date for non-breast implant product liability
claims is also "unwarranted and prejudicial," the committee says.

     "[I]t appears that the principal effect of such a bar date
would be to bar prematurely the great majority of as-yet-
unmatured Other Product Claims, whose holders would have little
incentive in the circumstances to file proofs of claim.  The
problem is compounded by the onerous and intrusive evidentiary
requirements that the Debtor seeks to impose on Other Product
Claimants at the proof of claim stage " the effect of which would
be to deter most claimants from filing."

     Such a scheme violates Bankruptcy Rules 3001(a) and (c),
which require that the official form be used by all creditors,
the committee states.

     The committee also argues that the May 1 date will coincide
with the notice to breast implant claimants regarding the
recently approved revised global settlement, which will result in
confusion and deter women from filing proofs of claim.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

BAR DATE OBJECTIONS, PART II

     The committee also objects that:

     " no provisions are made for notice to foreign claimants;

     " there are no provisions for maintaining the
     confidentiality of information required to be disclosed on
     the Breast Implant and Other Product claim forms;

     " the Breast Implant claim form does not advise women with
     non-Dow Corning implants that they may have a claim against
     Dow Corning as a supplier of the silicone gel used in the
     implant; and

     " the definition of "Other Products" is vague.

Unsecured Creditors Committee

     Although the committee said it does not object to the idea
of a bar date being set at some point, it said a bar date is not
necessary now and will substantially delay the bankruptcy
proceedings.

     A bar order is neither required for either discharge under
Section 1141 of the Bankruptcy Code nor for an estimation
proceeding under Section 157(b), the committee argues.

     The committee also objects that the proposed legal
notification program is "totally unwarranted" because other
notice will have to be given in the case " specifically, notice
of the confirmation hearing.  In addition, the committee contends
that Dow Corning has not submitted the actual content of the
notification program for court approval, leaving the court unable
to judge whether the program meets legal standards.

     With respect to the Canadian notification program, the
committee notes that the bankruptcy court does not have power to
enforce the automatic stay outside the borders of the United
States.  The committee, therefore, says the notification to
Canadian claimants should specify that Canadians who file proofs
of claim in the bankruptcy are precluded from pursuing suits in
the Canadian court system, and conversely that pursuing a lawsuit
will prevent participation in the bankruptcy.

     Finally, the committee objected to certain aspects of Dow
Corning's proposed claim forms.

The MEC Defendants

     The MEC defendants complained that although they expect to
file claims against Dow Corning for contribution for cases in
which they are found to be jointly and severally liable, it is
unclear which claim form they are required to file " the Breast
Implant Claim Form or the Commercial Claim Form.

     The MEC defendants also noted the absence of any reference
to potential claims against Dow Corning as a supplier of gel.

     "The MEC Defendants respectfully submit that additional
categories must be added to the Breast Implant Claim Form to
address the Debtor's liabilities arising from the supply of gel,"
they stated.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

BAR DATE OBJECTIONS, PART III

     Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing

     3M also objected to Dow Corning's proposed claim form
system, because the proposed forms "do not appropriately or
sufficiently provide for the type and nature of the claims that
3M intends to assert," the company said.

     In addition, 3M argued that the definition of "breast
implant" should be expanded to include all breast implants,
whether manufactured by Dow Corning or another company.  Such a
move is necessary, 3M explained, "in order to address the
universe of claims that have been asserted jointly against DCC
and 3M, including, for example, multiple implant claims and
conspiracy claims."

     3M said it takes no position at this time on the
establishment of the May 1 bar date or on Dow Corning's proposed
notice program.

Baxter Healthcare

     Baxter also seeks modification of the breast implant claim
form to include reference to women who may have claims against
Dow Corning as a gel supplier.

     The form "cannot be fairly completed, much less verified
under penalty of perjury, by (a) a claimant who is unaware of the
identity of her implant manufacturer, (b) a claimant who is
unaware of the identity of the gel supplier or even (c) a
claimant who knows that DCC manufactured the silicone gel
contained in an implant manufactured by another company."

     Baxter also says the notice program should inform women that
non-Dow Corning implants may contain Dow Corning gel.

Blue Cross/Blue Shield Health Plans

     Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan, Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Alabama, Blue Shield of California, and Blue Cross and
Blue Shield of Minnesota said they agree with the Tort Claimants
Committee that setting a bar date for breast implant claims is
premature.

     The health plans also contend that Dow Corning has made no
provision for their filing proofs of claim.  They say they have a
right to be reimbursed for payments made to each of their members
who has received breast implant-related services, regardless of
whether the member files a proof of claim against Dow Corning.

     The Tort Claimants Committee is represented by Alfred S.
Lurey and Dennis S. Meir of Kilpatrick & Cody in Atlanta; Marvin
E. Frankel, Kenneth H. Eckstein and Philip Bentley of Kramer,
Levin, Naftalis, Nessen, Kamin & Frankel in New York City; and
Lenard M. Parkins and Anne M. Ferazzi of Verner, Liipfert,
Bernhard, McPherson and Hand in Houston.

     The Unsecured Creditors Committee is represented by David,
Polk & Wardwell in New York City and Honigman Miller Schwartz &
Cohn in Detroit.  The MEC defendants are represented by Hayden
Smith Jr. of McCarter & English in Newark, NJ.  3M is represented
by Bruce R. Zirinsky and Greg A. Danilow of Weil Gotshal & Manges
in New York City, and David J. Fisher of Smith, Bovill, Fisher,
Meyer & Borchard in Saginaw, MI.  Baxter is represented by Larry
J. Nyhan and James F. Conlan of Sidley & Austin in Chicago;
Thomas E. Pitts Jr. and Shelley C. Chapman of Sidley & Austin in
New York City; and Judy A. O'Neill and Laura J. Eisele of Dykema
Gossett in Detroit.  The health plans are represented by Linda C.
Scheuerman and Daniella Saltz of Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss in
Detroit.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

NY PLAINTIFFS SEEK TO
LIFT AUTOMATIC STAY
TO LIQUIDATE CLAIMS

     New York breast implant plaintiffs on Dec. 26 filed a motion
with the bankruptcy court in Bay City, MI, asking that the
automatic stay be lifted so that they can proceed with, or in
some cases initiate, lawsuits against Dow Corning Corp.  In re
Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.).

     The plaintiffs argue that they are only seeking to liquidate
their claims, not execute on them.  Once the claims are
liquidated, they say, the claims will become subject to
bankruptcy court jurisdiction as core proceedings.

     The plaintiffs are those whose cases were originally filed
in the New York Supreme Court or the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York and consolidated before the Hon.
Joan B. Lobis for pretrial coordination and discovery.

     The plaintiffs' suits are currently unliquidated claims over
which the bankruptcy court has no jurisdiction, the plaintiffs
state.  After the claims are reduced to judgment, they will be
considered liquidated claims and will fall under bankruptcy
jurisdiction as core proceedings, they say.

     The plaintiffs argue that they are now "burdened with a
continuing 'stay' of all litigation unless plaintiffs agree to
dismiss Dow Corning with prejudice from all their actions.  Since
Judge [Sam C.] Pointer [overseeing the multidistrict litigation
proceedings] will not allow plaintiffs to proceed with any
litigation unless they agree to forfeit their rights against the
Dow Corning bankruptcy estate, plaintiffs have no recourse but to
seek relief from the automatic bankruptcy stay so their lawsuits
can move forward."

     The motion was filed by Dawn S. DeWeil of Schneider,
Kleinick, Weitz, Damashek & Shoot in New York City.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

DCC OBJECTS TO FEE
APPLICATIONS, HEARING
SET FOR JAN. 18

     Dow Corning Corp. on Dec. 21 objected to the first interim
fee applications filed by several professional firms for services
to the estate.  In re Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI
Bankr.).

     A hearing on the matter is set for Thursday, Jan. 18.

     Dow Corning said it objects to the following requests for
fees and expenses:

     " $50,008 requested by Ernst & Young, which Dow Corning
claims was for services performed prior to the effective date of
retention.  Ernst & Young is seeking a total of $790,188 in fees
and $43,791 in expenses.

     " $102,000 requested by the law firm of Kilpatrick & Cody,
which Dow Corning also claims is for pre-retention services.  Dow
Corning objects to another $15,000 requested for expenses
associated with attendance at an American Trial Lawyers
Association conference on breast implant litigation.  Kilpatrick
& Cody is asking for a total of $774,133 in fees and $91,059.26
in expenses.

     " $25,544 in fees, out of a total of $151,661.50 in fees and
$19,748.69 in expenses, requested by Bricker & Eckler.  The
disputed amount was for pre-retention services, Dow Corning
states.

     " $41,560.97 in allegedly unsupported and unreimbursable
expenses for various members of the Tort Claimants Committee.

     " $25,562 requested by Kramer, Levin, Naftalis, Nessen,
Kamin & Frankel for 80.2 hours in responding to Dow Corning's
motion for sanctions against the law firm of O'Quinn, Kerensky,
McAninch & Laminack and Richard Laminack.  Dow Corning claims
that Kramer Levin's filings were duplicative and unnecessary, and
provided no benefit to the debtor's estate.  Kramer Levin is
seeking a total of $1,234,323.63 in fees and $157,982.99 in
expenses.

     Dow Corning said it saved $103,324 resolving other
objections through an informal process of negotiation.

     The objections were filed by Barbara J. Houser, Craig J.
Litherland and Millie A. Sall of Sheinfeld, Maley & Kay in
Dallas.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

DCC SEEKS PERMISSION TO
GIVE IMPLANT SAMPLES TO
UNIVERSITY FOR STUDY

     Dow Corning Corp. on Dec. 19 asked the bankruptcy court in
Bay City, MI, for permission to give 160 pairs of breast implants
to a university that is conducting a study that Dow Corning
believes will assist the court in estimating rupture claims.  In
re Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.)

     Dow Corning states that, in 1992, a "leading American
university" began a study of the structural integrity and rupture
rate of breast implants.  The study's methodology includes
comparing Dow Corning implants that have been explanted from
their recipients with new, unused samples of DCC implants that
were manufactured in the same lots as the explants.

     Dow Corning had no role in initiating or establishing the
study's protocol and has no rights with respect to the results,
Dow Corning states.  The company also says that donating the
implants to the study would be consistent with pre-bankruptcy
discovery orders issued by various courts relating to
preservation/non-destruction of evidence.

     The motion was filed by Barbara J. Houser, Craig J.
Litherland and David Ellerbe of Sheinfeld, Maley & Kay in Dallas;
and by Rozanne M. Giunta and Susan M. Cook of Lambert, Leser,
Cook, Schmidt & Giunta in Bay City, MI.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

JUDGE ALLOWS DCC TO
EXTEND CANADIAN
LIMITATIONS PERIOD

     U.S  Bankruptcy Judge Arthur J. Spector on Dec. 7 granted
Dow Corning Corp.'s motion to enter into a stipulation extending
the statute of limitations in a Canadian breast implant class
action.  In re Dow Corning Corp., No. 95-20512 (ED MI Bankr.);
see Breast Implant Litigation Reporter, Dec. 26, 1995.

               On Nov. 21, Dow Corning filed a motion relating to a class
action pending in the Supreme Court of British Columbia,
Harrington v. Dow Corning Corp. et al., No. C954330.  All of the
approximately 15 other defendants have agreed to extend the
limitations period from Dec. 31, 1995, the date provided for in
the British Columbia Class Proceedings Act, until April 30, 1996.
However, Dow Corning said, its bankruptcy filing and the
associated automatic stay raised a question as to whether the
company could unilaterally enter into such a stipulation.

     The Canadian court had planned to hold a hearing Dec. 13 on
certifying the class with respect to Dow Corning; that hearing
was continued until next year.  All of the other defendants,
citing the need for more time to prepare for the certification
hearing, stipulated to the extension.  Dow Corning argued that
it, too, needed additional time to prepare for arguments.

     Judge Spector found the relief requested was appropriate.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

CANADIAN SUPREME COURT
UPHOLDS DCC'S LIABILITY
IN BREAST IMPLANT SUIT

     Dow Corning is liable for failing to warn a patient of the
possibility that her breast implant could rupture as a result of
normal, everyday activities, a 5-2 majority of the Canadian
Supreme Court ruled Dec. 21.  Dow Corning Corp. v. Hollis,
No. 23776 (Canadian Sup. Ct.).

     The majority said Dow Corning could have met that duty by
warning the surgeon who performed the implantation, but failed to
warn the doctor.  The dissenting opinion said the patient should
be required to prove that the doctor, had he been properly warned
by Dow Corning, would have passed the information on to her.

     In 1983, Susan Hollis had two gel-filled, low profile, round
Silastic implants, manufactured by Dow Corning, implanted by Dr.
John R. Birch to correct breast abnormalities.  At a later date,
another surgeon removed the implants and found that one of them
had ruptured but there was no evidence of the silicone envelope
that had surrounded the ruptured implant.  Subsequently, Hollis
underwent bilateral subcutaneous mastectomies and immediate
replacement with saline implants.

     Hollis filed suit, claiming that Dow Corning was negligent
in the manufacture or design of the implant that ruptured and
negligent in failing to give adequate warnings to the medical
profession or the public of the possibility that the implants
could rupture.  She claimed that Birch had been negligent in
failing to warn her of the risks of implant rupture and that the
second doctor had been negligent in failing to exercise adequate
care to prevent implant rupture during explantation.

               Following an 18-day trial, the trial judge found that Dow
Corning was negligent in the manufacture of the implant; that it
was unnecessary to decide whether Dow Corning was negligent in
failing to warn adequately; that neither doctor had been
negligent; that Birch was under no duty to warn Hollis of the
possibility of implant rupture; and that there was no contract of
sale and purchase between Birch and Hollis with respect to the
implants.

     Hollis was awarded C$95,000 for non-pecuniary damages, past
loss of income and for future loss of income.

     On appeal, the Court of Appeal found lack of evidence for
the conclusion that the implant rupture was caused by Dow
Corning's negligence.  However, it found that Dow Corning
possessed relevant information with respect to the risk of
rupture that it did not make available to the medical community.
The court reversed the dismissal of the negligence action against
Birch, ordered a new trial and dismissed Hollis' cross-appeal
that the damages award was inordinately low.

     On appeal to the Canadian Supreme Court, the sole issue was
whether Dow Corning is liable to Hollis because it failed to warn
Birch.

     The majority first found that Dow Corning was under a duty
to warn of the risks of unexplained ruptures at the time Hollis
received her implants.  It noted that Dow Corning had at that
point received between 48 and 61 reports of unexplained ruptures,
but that it did not begin warning doctors of this phenomenon for
another two years.

     Next, the majority said Dow Corning could have escaped
liability, if it had adequately warned Birch, under the learned
intermediary doctrine.  Dow Corning contended that it should not
be liable unless Hollis could prove that Birch, had he been
properly informed of the rupture risk, would have passed the
information on to Hollis.  However, the majority rejected this
contention, finding that it would require the plaintiff to prove
a hypothetical situation.

     "It is clear from the record that Ms. Hollis' right to
informed consent was not respected in this case," the majority
said.  "We know that Dow's failure to warn was a cause of her
injury; whether Dr. Birch's actions in the hypothetical situation
posited by Dow might also have been a cause is not a matter for
Ms. Hollis to prove."

     The appropriate test, the majority said, is a subjective
test: would Hollis have gone ahead with the implant surgery if
she had been adequately warned, not the objective test of what a
"reasonable woman" would have done.  The majority found that
Hollis proved she would not have had the surgery if she had been
warned.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

HOLLIS, PART II

     "Simply put," the majority stated, "I do not think a
manufacturer should be able to escape liability for failing to
give a warning it was under a duty to give, by simply presenting
evidence tending to establish that even if the doctor had been
given the warning, he or she would not have passed it on to the
patient, let alone putting an onus on the plaintiff to do so.
Adopting such a rule would, in some cases, run the risk of
leaving the plaintiff with no compensation for her injuries.  She
would not be able to recover against a doctor who had not been
negligent with respect to the information he or she did have; yet
she also would not be able to recover against a manufacturer who,
despite having failed in its duty to warn, could escape liability
on the basis that, had the doctor been appropriately warned, he
or she would not have passed the information on to the plaintiff.
Our tort law should not be held to contemplate such an anomalous
result."

     The dissent first said that use of the subjective test is
improper because it fails to account for the "inherent
unreliability of the plaintiff's self-serving assertion."

     "It is not simply a question as to whether the plaintiff is
believed," the dissent said.  "The plaintiff may be perfectly
sincere in stating that in hindsight she believed that she would
not have consented to the operation.  This is not a statement of
fact that, if accepted, concludes the matter.  It is an opinion
about what the plaintiff would have done in respect of a
situation that did not occur....  In evaluating the opinion, the
trier of fact must discount its probity not only by reason of its
self-serving nature, but also by reason of the fact that it is
likely to be colored by the trauma occasioned by the failed
procedure.  For this reason, the most reliable approach in
determining what would in fact have occurred is to test the
plaintiff's assertion by reference to objective evidence as to
what a reasonable person would have done."

     Next, the dissent said that "well established tort
principles" require Hollis to prove that her injuries would not
have occurred had Dow Corning properly warned Birch.

     "In other words," the dissent said, "Ms. Hollis must show
that her doctor would have warned her of any dangers that had
been brought to his attention and that if warned she would have
refused the operation.  Absent this form of proof, it cannot be
said with any degree of certainly that the failure of Dow to warn
physicians was the cause of the unfortunate injuries suffered by
Ms. Hollis."

     The dissent said a new trial should have been ordered
because the majority improperly resolved factual issues that are
the province of the trial court.
               Hollis was represented by Donald J. McKinlay of Lang
Michener Lawrence & Shaw in Vancouver, BC.  Dow Corning was
represented by Derek J. Mullan and David W. Donohoe of Clark,
Wilson in Vancouver.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

OR JUDGE PARTIALLY
DISMISSES SUIT OVER
CONFIDENTIAL AGREEMENT

     A suit brought by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.
against a breast implant recipient and her attorneys for
allegedly revealing the amount of a confidential settlement
agreement was dismissed in part by a federal judge in Oregon on
Nov. 30.  Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. v. Thies et al.,
No. 95-1075-JE (D OR).

     Magistrate Judge John Jelderks of the U.S. District Court
for the District of Oregon granted a motion by defendant attorney
Michael L. Williams and his firm, Williams & Troutwine, P.C., to
dismiss 3M's claims for declaratory relief, negligence and
intentional interference with the company's economic advantage
and business relations.

     Judge Jelderks, however, denied the defendants' motion to
dismiss 3M's claim alleging that the defendants breached their
contractual agreement not to disclose the amount of a proposed
settlement.

     The present litigation involves a settlement reached between
3M and defendant Marjorie A. Thies over injuries Thies allegedly
suffered from her 3M breast implants.  Williams served as her
attorney in that action, which was settled in June 1995.  Under
the terms of the agreement, Thies was to receive a certain sum of
money by July 11, 1995.  Thies and her attorneys allegedly agreed
not to disclose the amount of the settlement.

     3M filed the present action on July 25, 1995, alleging that
Thies and her attorneys breached the confidentiality provision of
the settlement by disclosing the amount of the agreement.  The
company also claimed that Williams & Troutwine intentionally
interfered with 3M's prospective economic advantage and business
relations in connection with the silicone gel implant products
liability litigation by disclosing the amount of the settlement.

     Williams & Troutwine moved to dismiss the suit, arguing that
dismissal was appropriate pursuant to the abstention doctrine in
Younger v. Harris, 401 U.S. 37 (1971).  The firm also said the
suit should be stayed under the abstention doctrine in Colorado
River Water Conservation District v. United States, 424 U.S. 800
(1976).  3M's claims for failure to state a claim upon which
relief can be granted should also be dismissed, the firm argued.

     In his opinion, Judge Jelderks concluded that the court
should abstain from considering 3M's claim for declaratory
judgment, but should not abstain from considering the remainder
of the company's claims.

     "The most important element of this claim " the assertion
that 3M is not obligated to pay the Thieses in accordance with
the settlement agreement " was necessarily considered, and
rejected, in state court proceedings," the judge said.  "Review
of that conclusion is now pending in the Oregon appellate
system."

     Under these circumstances, Judge Jelderks said, the
principles of comity and federalism underlying in the Younger
decision favor abstention from consideration of 3M's first claim.

     "Oregon has an important interest in providing a forum for
the final resolution of issues raised, and decided, in the first
instance in its judicial system," the judge said.  "The state has
an important interest in providing that forum without concern
that duplicative litigation in a federal court might yield a
different result or otherwise put in question the finality of
state court judgments."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
BREAST IMPLANT LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

THIES, PART II

     In concluding that abstention from consideration of 3M's
first claim is appropriate, Judge Jelderks said the state has an
important interest in determining whether parties have
conclusively resolved the issues giving rise to litigation in its
courts, and in providing the appellate forum in which the
conclusions of its trial courts are tested.

     However, the judge said that Younger abstention is not
appropriate as to the balance of 3M's claims because these claims
raise issues that the state court was not required to reach in
deciding whether to grant the Thieses' motion for summary
judgment on the supplemental complaint.

     "There is neither an action pending in state court involving
all of the parties involved in this federal action, nor a pending
state proceeding in which 3M can pursue those claims not
inevitably addressed by the state court's conclusion that 3M was
not excused from performing its obligations under the settlement
agreement," Judge Jelderks said.

     The judge also held that Colorado River abstention is
inapplicable to the present litigation because no concurrent
state court action joins all the parties in the present
litigation.  In Colorado River, the court concluded that federal
courts should sometimes abstain from exercising jurisdiction when
concurrent state proceedings are pending.

     Judge Jelderks accepted the defendants' contention that 3M's
negligence claim should be dismissed for failure to state a claim
upon which relief may be granted.  Citing Hale v. Groce, 304 Or.
281, 284, 744 P.2d 1289 (1987), the judge said a party is not
ordinarily liable for negligently causing strictly economic harm
to another.

     "Oregon cases simply cannot be read as imposing upon counsel
or their clients some special duty to further the economic
interests of the adverse party," Judge Jelderks said.  "Hale does
not support 3M's position."

     The judge accepted the defendants' argument that 3M failed
to state an actionable intentional interference claim because it
cannot plead the requisite business relationship, and because it
cannot plead or prove that any alleged interference stemmed from
an improper motive.

     "Having reviewed Oregon cases discussing this tort, as well
as the Restatement (Second) of Torts (1977) and relevant
treatises, I am convinced that 3M does not have the kind of
business or professional relationship with those allegedly
injured by its products that is protected by an intentional
interference cause of action," Judge Jelderks said.

     Representing 3M was William B. Crow and Jeffrey D. Austin of
Miller, Nash, Wiener, Hager & Carlsen of Portland, OR.
Representing Thies was William A. Gaylord of Gaylord & Eyerman,
P.C. in Portland.  Counsel for Williams and Troutwine, P.C. was
Donald W. McEwen and Jonathan M. Radmacher of McEwen, Gisvold,
Rankin, Carter & Streinz in Portland.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-7</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-261</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh15.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022201 text/html 131462
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:19:19 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:06 GMT
Content-length: 131272
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh15.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet <BR>
December 25, 1995 & January 1<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS REPORTS . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Cancer Vaccines (Pancreatic Carcinoma)&nbsp;Vaccination with Mutant Ras Peptides Induces T-Cell Response</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(738 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Cancer Gene Therapy&nbsp;Adenovirus-Mediated Cytokine Gene Therapy Successful in Murine Model</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(512 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;"New" ACTG Moves Forward</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(654 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Drug Development (Antiviral)&nbsp;Virus-Neutralizing RNAs Offer Potential as Antiviral Therapies</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1026 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>Gene Discovery&nbsp;Scientists One Step Closer To Understanding Cancer</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(395 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Genetics (Risk Assessment)&nbsp;Graphs Enable Easy, Accurate Assessment of Breast Cancer Risk</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(376 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Human Papillomavirus (Diagnostics)&nbsp;Serum Antibody to HPV-16 VLPs Indicates Cervical HPV-16 Infection</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(626 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Human Papillomavirus (Vaccine Design)&nbsp;VLPs from One Variant May Help To Prevent Infection</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(532 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>Immunology&nbsp;Discovery of Tumor Antigens Facilitated by Novel Process</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(707 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Industry News (Joint Venture)&nbsp;Agreement Signed To Develop Anti-Cancer Therapeutics</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(673 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Industry News (Joint Venture)&nbsp;Anticancer Drug Licensing/Research Agreement Signed</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(376 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>Industry News (Therapy)&nbsp;DaunoXome Shows Promise as Treatment</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(390 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Industry News (Therapy)&nbsp;Ethyol Approved for Marketing by FDA To Treat Ovarian Cancer</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(332 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>Industry News (Vaccines)&nbsp;Survival Improvement Shown in Breast Cancer Trial with Theratope</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(277 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>Preventive Medicine&nbsp;Organization Criticizes Task Force Recommendations</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(640 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>Transplantation (BMT)&nbsp;HLA-Matched Unrelated Donors Are Good Option for CML Patients</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(546 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>Transplantation (Cord Blood)&nbsp;Improved Methods Address Storage and Cell Viability Challenges</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(768 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>RESEARCH FROM CONFERENCES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>Cancer Gene Therapy&nbsp;"Suppression of Human U87 Glioblastoma Tumor Growth in the Flank of Nude Mice&nbsp;with Antisense Oligonucleotides to the c-myb Oncogene."  V.C.  Low, C.  You,&nbsp;E.P.  Flores, L.  Chiang, J.A.  Conrad, X.Q.  Liu, D.Y.K.  Wen and W.A.  Hall.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(319 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>Cancer Vaccines&nbsp;"Gene Therapy for Brain Tumors by Autologous Vaccination with Engineered&nbsp;GM-CSF Secreting Tumor Cells."  J.S.  Yu, J.A.  Butwick, G.  Dkanoff, E.A.&nbsp;Chiocca and X.O.  Breakefield.  Neurosurgery Service and Molecular</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(219 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Differentiation Between Tuberculosis and Malignant Lymphoma in Abdominal&nbsp;Lymph Nodes with Contrast-Enhanced CT."  Z.G.  Yang, P.Q.  Min, Z.Y.  He and&nbsp;X.P.  Choc.  Chengdu, China.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(243 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Esophageal Lymphoma and Viral 'Pseudolymphoma' in Patients with AIDS."  D.H.&nbsp;Frager, C.  Rodeo, B.J.  Perlman, D.  Kotler, B.  Fein and J.  Frager.  New&nbsp;York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(225 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Thoracic Neoplasms in AIDS:  Can We Tell Them Apart?."  H.K.  Pannu, J.F.&nbsp;Gruden and S.A.  Oldham.  Houston, Texas.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>Disease Associations&nbsp;"AIDS Related Lymphoma:  Spinal Involvement."  Y.  Cordoliani, J.  Sarrazin,&nbsp;D.  Soulie, D.  Jeanbourquin, O.  Helie and G.  Cosnard.  Paris, France.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(146 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>Gene Delivery (Brain Cancer)&nbsp;"Extended Transfer of HSV-TK Gene into Disseminated 9L Brain Tumors by&nbsp;Intraarterial and Intraventricular Delivery of a Herpes Vector."  C.M.  Kramm,&nbsp;N.G.  Rainov, M.  Chase, M.  Sena-Esteves, E.A.  Chiocca and X.O.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(401 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>Immunology&nbsp;"Immunization and Ganciclovir Treatment Delay the Formation of HSV-TK&nbsp;Expressing Brain Tumors in Rats Through Immunologic Suppression."  U.  Blomer,&nbsp;D.  Barha, D.A.  Petersen and F.H.  Gage.  Department of Neurosurgery</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(223 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>Therapy (Kaposi Sarcoma)&nbsp;"Radiation Therapy of the Oral Cavity and Oropharynx In Patients with AIDS&nbsp;Related Kaposi Sarcoma."  L.Z.  Nisce, M.  Coleman and T.P.  Kaulmann.  New&nbsp;York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(128 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>JOURNAL ARTICLE SUMMARIES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><LI>Antisense Technology&nbsp;Vaerman, J.L.; Lammineur, C.; Moureau, P.; Lewalle, P.; Deldime, F.;&nbsp;Blumenfeld, M.  "BCR-ABL Antisense Oligodeoxyribonucleotides Suppress the&nbsp;Growth of Leukemic and Normal Hematopoietic Cells by a Sequence-Specific But</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(223 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>Bladder Cancer&nbsp;Rintala, E.; Jauhiainen, K.; Rajala, P.; Ruutu, M.; Kaasinen, E.; Alfthan, O.;&nbsp;Hansson, E.; Juusela, H.; Kanerva, K.; Korhonen, H.; Nurmi, M.; Permi, J.;&nbsp;Petays, P.; Tainio, H.; Talja, M.; Tuhkanen, K.; Viitanen, J.  "Alternating</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(228 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>Bladder Cancer&nbsp;Pansadoro, V.; Emiliozzi, P.; Defidio, L.; Donadio, D.; Florio, A.; Maurelli,&nbsp;S.; Lauretti, S.; Sternberg, C.N.  "Bacillus Calmette-Guerin in the Treatment&nbsp;of Stage T1 Grade 3 Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder:  Long-Term</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(217 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><LI>Cancer Gene Therapy (Hepatocellular)&nbsp;Kaneko, S.; Hallenbeck, P.; Kotani, T.; Nakabayashi, H.; Mcgarrity, G.;&nbsp;Tamaoki, T.; Anderson, W.F.; Chiang, Y.L.  "Adenovirus-Mediated Gene Therapy&nbsp;of Hepatocellular Carcinoma using Cancer Specific Gene Expression."  Cancer</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(254 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><LI>Cancer Gene Therapy (Prostate)&nbsp;Eastham, J.A.; Hall, S.J.; Sehgal, I.; Wang, J.X.; Timme, T.L.; Yang, G.;&nbsp;Connellcrowley, L.; Elledge, S.J.; Zhang, W.W.; Harper, J.W.; Thompson, T.C.&nbsp;"In Vivo Gene Therapy with p53 or p21 Adenovirus for Prostate Cancer."  Cancer</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(238 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><LI>Cancer Vaccines&nbsp;Duda, R.B.; Yang, H.; Dooley, D.D.; Abujawdeh, G.  "Recombinant BCG Therapy&nbsp;Suppresses Melanoma Tumor Growth."  Annals of Surgical Oncology, November&nbsp;1995;2(6):542-549.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(242 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><LI>Gene Therapy Overview&nbsp;Hanania, E.G.; Kavanagh, J.; Hortobagyi, G.; Giles, R.E.; Champlin, R.;&nbsp;Deisseroth, A.B.  "Recent Advances in the Application of Gene Therapy to Human&nbsp;Disease."  American Journal of Medicine, November 1995;99(5):537-552.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><LI>Monoclonal Antibodies&nbsp;Desrues, B.; Lena, H.; Brichory, F.; Ramee, M.P.; Toujas, L.; Delaval, P.;&nbsp;Dazord, L.  "Monoclonal Antibody Po66 Uptake by Human Lung Tumours Implanted&nbsp;in Nude Mice:  Effect of Co-Administration with Doxorubicin."  British Journal</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(286 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><A HREF = "#36"><LI>MEETINGS REPORT&nbsp;*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2290 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Vaccines (Pancreatic Carcinoma)
Vaccination with Mutant Ras Peptides Induces T-Cell Response


Pancreatic carcinoma patients carrying a ras mutation exhibited T-cell
responsiveness after vaccination with the corresponding mutant RAS peptides.

Because CD4 and CD8 T cells specific for a single ras mutation have been
described, and because mutant p21 RAS can be recognized by human T cells,
mutant p21 RAS represents an exclusive tumor-specific antigen.  These findings
suggest that RAS peptide vaccination of cancer patients with a verified ras
mutation might be used as a specific immunotherapy.

Marianne K.  Gjertsen et al.  vaccinated pancreatic cancer patients exhibiting
a ras mutation with a synthetic RAS peptide in an effort to influence the
clinical course of the disease ("Vaccination with Mutant RAS Peptides and
Induction of T-Cell Responsiveness in Pancreatic Carcinoma Patients Carrying
the Corresponding ras Mutation," The Lancet, November 25,
1995;346(8987):1399-1400).

"Results indicate that specific T-cell responses against mutations uniquely
harbored in tumor cells can be induced in cancer patients by vaccination,"
stated Gjertsen et al.

Five patients with histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
with ras mutations were enrolled in this clinical trial.  Peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (1-4x10(9)) were collected by leukapheresis and loaded with
a synthetic RAS peptide encompassing residues 5-21 of p21 RAS and
corresponding to the mutation in the patients tumor tissue.

Patients were vaccinated on day 0 and boosted on days 14 and 35.  Additional
boosters were given every 4-6 weeks.  None of the patients exhibited any toxic
reactions or side-effects after vaccination.

None of the patients exhibited T-cell responsiveness to any of the RAS
peptides tested before the protocol started, although they showed normal
T-cell responses against other test antigens.  Two of the five patients
exhibited T-cell response to RAS peptides in their peripheral blood
mononuclear cells around day 40 after the onset of the vaccination protocol,
noted the authors.

The T-cell response was transient, and disappeared during the following weeks.
Repeated vaccinations did not result in a reappearance of detectable
responding T cells in the peripheral blood.

Although puzzled at first by the lack of detectable T-cell response, the
authors determined that the tumor-specific T cells elicited by RAS peptide
vaccination were homing to the tumor and being selectively removed from
circulation.

No major therapeutic response was observed in the any of the patients,
including the two who exhibited brief T-cell responses.  The authors felt that
this was due to the terminal stage of the disease in the patients.  All the
patients had large tumor burdens and progressively deteriorating immune
systems, with life expectancies of only three to four months.

Tumor tissue taken from the two responding patients after they died showed
that lymphocyte infiltration was prominent and was mainly constituted by T
cells.  This finding was compatible with the explanation that the RAS-specific
T cells elicited by the vaccination may have homed in to the tumors of these
patients, noted the authors.

They also noted that vaccination by a single tumor-specific epitope may not be
sufficient in these circumstances as the therapeutic vaccine may have been too
little, too late.  Ongoing studies in patients with minimal residual disease
could provide a clinical setting allowing for more careful evaluation of
immune responses and the potential for clinical benefits of RAS peptide
vaccine, noted the authors.

"Our method for vaccination is novel," concluded Gjertsen et al.  "We injected
large amounts of peptide-pulsed mononuclear cells.  The rational is that a
fraction of these cells (i.e., pulsed dendritic cells and monocytes) will end
up in lymphoid organs, where the actual T-cell stimulation will take place.
Two and three rounds of vaccination seemed to be sufficient to break the state
of unresponsiveness to the mutant RAS peptides in [the two] patients [who
responded]."

This study was an extension of preliminary research done by these same authors
which was presented at the International Symposium on Cancer Vaccines, held
October 3-5, 1994.  At that time, they stated "Our results indicate that
immunotherapy targeted against neoplastic cells carrying ras mutations is
possible, and a protocol based on loading professional antigen presenting
cells with synthetic RAS peptides is currently being tested in a clinical
setting."

This research was supported by the Norwegian Cancer Society, the Norwegian
Research Council for Science and the Humanities, and Pronova, Norway.

The corresponding author for this study is Dr.  Gustave Gaudernack, Section
for Immunotherapy, Institute of Cancer Research, Department of Immunology,
Montebello, N-0310 Oslo, Norway.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Gene Therapy
Adenovirus-Mediated Cytokine Gene Therapy Successful in Murine Model


A murine breast cancer model has exhibited effective tumor suppression with
adenovirus-mediated cytokine gene therapy.

Separate studies presented at the 4th International Conference on Gene Therapy
of Cancer, held November 9-11, 1995, showed effective cancer immunotherapy
could be obtained by using of adenoviral vectors to administer the cytokines
interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, or IL-12.

C.L.  Addison et al.  and J.  Bramson et al.  coauthored separate, but related
studies, using a murine mammary carcinoma model to show the effectiveness of
cytokines in cancer immunotherapy.

"Intratumoral (i.t.)  injection of adenoviral vectors expressing cytokines may
be an effective immunotherapy of cancer resulting in protection from
metastatic disease," noted Addison et al.

Polyoma middle T transgenic mice were inoculated with mammary carcinoma cells.
Adenovirus vectors were created that expressed either IL-2 (AdCAIL-2), IL-4
(AdCAIL-4) or IL-12 (AdmIL.12.1).  After the mammary tumors were palpable, the
mice were injected i.t.  with the cytokine expressing vectors (one vector per
set of mice).

Of the animals that received AdCAIL-2, 54 percent underwent complete tumor
regression; 53 percent of the mice receiving AdCAIL-4 underwent complete tumor
regression; and 29 percent of the mice receiving AdmIL.12.1 underwent complete
regression.

Although the response rates were similar for the AdCAIL-2 and AdCAIL-4
vectors, the kinetics for the regression were markedly different.  Regression
induced by AdCAIL-2 occurred within four weeks whereas regression following
AdCAIL-4 required eight to 10 weeks, noted the authors.

In contrast, animals treated with AdmIL.12.1 exhibited a reduced rate of
complete tumor regression in spite of the observation that 100 percent showed
some type of response to the IL-12 cytokine.

When the animals that experienced total cure were rechallenged with fresh
inoculations of tumor, the IL-2 and IL-4 treated animals had a 100 percent
resistance rate.  In contrast, the IL-12 treated animals only experience a 66
percent resistance rate.

The authors suggested reason for IL-12 having a lower response rate was that
although it produces potent enhancement of CTL activity, it is a weak
stimulator of T cell proliferation.  The reemergence of tumors after
AdmIL.12.1 could have been due to inadequate numbers of responder cells within
the tumor at the time of rechallenge.

Combination of treatment with cytokines that stimulate T cells (i.e., IL-2)
could allow for increased and prolonged regression rates, suggested the
authors.

"Our studies indicate that intratumoral (i.t.)  administration of adenovirus
vectors expressing IL-12 alone or in combination with other cytokines will be
extremely useful in the treatment of cancer and management of metastatic
disease," concluded Bramson et al.

Work by Bramson et al.  on IL-12 was supported by grants from the MRC and NCI
Canada and London Life Insurance.

The authors for both studies can be reached at the Departments of Biology and
Pathology, McMaster University, Hamilton Ontario, Canada.

See the September 25, 1995, issue of Vaccine Weekly for a synopsis of related
earlier research by Addison et al.  that was published in the August 29, 1995
issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 92(18):8522-26.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
"New" ACTG Moves Forward


Can the main clinical trials group in the U.S.  shed its image as a dinosaur
too large and slow-moving to respond to new developments in AIDS therapies?

According to the chair of the group's Adult Executive Committee - University
of Colorado researcher Robert "Chip" Schooley - recent reorganization has
accomplished this objective.  Schooley made his remarks during the Twentieth
AIDS Clinical Trials Group Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington,
D.C.

The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) is the arm of the U.S.  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Division of AIDS (DAIDS)
responsible for testing new treatments for HIV disease and its complications.

But the group - particularly the division responsible for testing drugs in
adults - has been severely criticized for lacking central control and for
moving far too slowly to provide answers to pressing questions about AIDS
therapies.

DAIDS recently completed a top-to-bottom evaluation and reorganization of the
ACTG.  In a plenary address to the group's first general meeting since the
changes took effect, Schooley acknowledged that many of the criticisms were
valid, but also stressed the group's many achievements.

"We've been through a lot of self and external evaluation," Schooley said.
"But there are a lot of things right with this organization.  This is the
preeminent clinical organization in the world.  We have put together a
tremendous organization to deal with a disease we all are tired of."

Schooley noted that four years ago only one drug had been approved for the
treatment of primary HIV infection and that today, largely due to ACTG
efforts, there are five such drugs with a sixth on the way.

"This organization will play a major role in understanding how these drugs
work," he said.  "We have a tremendous opportunity to move along quickly."

Schooley noted that recent ACTG studies have defined a role for combination
therapy with the nucleoside analog didanosine (ddI) and for the use of the new
protease inhibitor saquinavir.

He promised that the ACTG would make increased use of new laboratory findings
"to tell us what we need to do."

The "new" ACTG will collaborate more closely with DAIDS, Schooley said.  But
most importantly, the ACTG will streamline and simplify the process by which
it generates clinical trial protocols.

"One of the things we were appropriately criticized for was behaving like
civil servants," Schooley said, referring to previous bureaucratic processes
that prevented the rapid testing of new treatments in a clinical setting.

The organization of the ACTG has been streamlined so that the adult section
has only three committees making research decisions.  These three Research
Agenda Committees (RACs) are the HIV Disease RAC, the Immunology RAC, and the
Opportunistic Disease RAC.  Committees that were once separate RACs - the
Pharmacology Committee, the Women's Health Committee, and the Patient Care
Committee - will now be established as standing resource committees within
each of the three main RACs.

There will be two major changes in how the ACTG functions:  there will be
centralized control of both resources and laboratories.

Resources will now be controlled directly by those planning and executing the
ACTG scientific agenda via a Scientific Agenda Steering Committee comprised of
the various committee chairs.

Laboratories previously operated independently of the research committees,
receiving their funds directly from DAIDS.

"Now scientific committees will directly control the labs," Schooley said.  "I
think this will work very well."

But the executive committee chair warned that the ACTG would continue to
change.

"Four years from now this will be a very different organization than now," he
said.  "The changes have been good, they have been enabling."

He called for the active participation of each investigator.

"Two thousand people thinking will get more done than just a few executive
committee members," Schooley said.

 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG


Many institutions conducting AIDS clinical trials have been unable to find and
keep study participants.

A study of 28 institutions participating in U.S.  government-sponsored
clinical trials showed that 18 of the sites (64 percent) failed to meet their
patient accrual goals.

The study, conducted by Washington University researcher Michael Klebert and
colleagues, was presented at the Twentieth AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington, D.C.  The ACTG Patient Care
Committee, a resource committee of the ACTG executive committee, performed the
study.

"Adequate recruitment and retention are essential in conducting successful
clinical trials," Klebert said.

Of 35 participating ACTG sites queried anonymously, 28 participated in the
study.  Except that they tended to be located on the east coast,
nonparticipating sites were not significantly different in terms of size or
patient demographics from participating institutions.

Surprisingly, the study found that the number of recruitment strategies used
by a study site was not related to meeting recruitment and retention goals.

Strategies positively correlated with successful patient recruitment and
retention were provision of child care, education of patients, provision of
peer advocates for patients, and payment via cash or vouchers.  Provision of
support groups was negatively correlated with success.

More than half of the sites identified study design as a barrier to
recruitment.  Nearly 40 percent of the sites said that barriers to successful
recruitment were lack of outreach and cultural sensitivity.

The sites with the worst recruitment/retention problems tended not to combine
primary care with study-protocol visits.  But high proportions of minority
patients or high proportions of patients using intravenous drugs was not
associated with poor recruitment or retention.

The major barriers to patient retention were the use of unpopular or too many
drugs in the study, high frequency of visits, and the availability of
alternative drugs.

Based on the study findings, Klebert made several recommendations to improve
patient recruitment and retention:

*  Combine primary care and research visits.
*  Promote a strong relationship between the study nurse and patients.
*  Provide transportation to the study site.
*  Ask patients about factors that might interfere with their participation.
*  Design studies to address retention problems.
*  Study identified problem sites in detail.
 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Drug Development (Antiviral)
Virus-Neutralizing RNAs Offer Potential as Antiviral Therapies


An in vitro selection process of RNA analogs derived from infectious viral
particles turns up elements with antiviral activity.

Current drug development techniques are dependent on the discovery of useful
agents.  Compounds with antibacterial or antiviral activity are often found
through the empirical screening of synthetic and natural compounds or the
logical design of a drug based on structures of viral and cellular proteins.
Unfortunately, empirical screening is tedious and inefficient, and logical
drug design, although promising, has not produced an abundance of successful
compounds.

Weihua Pan et al.  extended a selection-amplification procedure, previously
used to isolate RNA and DNA molecules, to target an intact virus in hopes of
discovering RNA analogs that could be developed as antiviral drugs ("Isolation
of Virus-Neutralizing RNAs from a Large Pool of Random Sequences," Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, December 5, 1995;92(25):11509-13).

"The isolation of RNAs and RNA analogs that are effective against diverse
viral strains will be particularly necessary for inhibiting viruses such as
HIV, which has a high mutation rate and readily develops drug-resistant
strains," stated Pan et al.  "Such selection is possible and practical because
a very large structurally diverse library is used and the selection is a rapid
process."

The authors noted that there is great potential to select for molecules that
bind defined targets with high affinity and specificity due to the structural
complexity of a combinatorial sequence library of single-stranded RNA
oligonucleotides.  Due to technological advances, selected RNA molecules can
be amplified and subjected to further selection.  Multiple cycles of selection
and amplification can lead to the isolation of the best target-binding RNA
molecules from the library.

Among the family of Retroviradae (which includes HIV), the rous sarcoma virus
(RSV) has been extensively studied.  All Retroviridae viruses are envelope
viruses which use surface glycoproteins to bind to a specific receptor on a
susceptible cell and for fusion with the cellular membrane of the host.

As a model, the authors chose to target intact RSV in order to isolate the RNA
molecules and the nuclease-resistant RNA analogs that specifically bind and
neutralize this virus.

RSV was used to demonstrate that antiviral RNA and RNA analogs could be
systematically and effectively isolated from a large pool of random sequences
without prior knowledge of the structures of the viral proteins.  First, they
used intact viral particles to select from the sequence pool the RNAs and RNA
analogs that bind specifically to the virus.  Then they screened the selected
molecules for the ability to neutralize the virus.

"We reason that by binding to virus, some of the selected RNAs and RNA analogs
may change the structures of viral surface proteins so that these proteins can
no longer function in steps critical for viral infection, such as viral
attachment and virus-cell membrane fusion," stated Pan et al.  "Alternatively,
some of the structural changes may trigger pathways to inhibit the steps which
normally occur after virus internalization, such as the uncoating and the
expression of the virus genome."

J.A.  Levy et al.  (Am.  Soc.  Microbiol., 1994;153-158) and N.J.  Dimmock et
al.  (Curr.  Top.  Microbiol.  Immunol., 1992;183:1-149) suggested the
possibilities in both of these avenues in some of their earlier work.

Using infectious viral particles, RNA and ribonuclease-resistant RAN analogs
that bound and neutralized RSV were isolated from a large pool of random
sequences by multiple cycles of in vitro selection.  Because RSV imposes
permeation problems, the selected RNAs were targeted to inhibit RSV infection
by binding to the virus surface, and not by entering the virus itself.

The sequences chosen completely neutralized the virus at concentrations of
0.16 (micro)M.  Of the 19 selected sequences isolated to be concentrated, five
of them inhibited RSV infection after cloning.  These five RNA and RNA analogs
neutralized the RSV by interacting with the virus itself.  They did not
adversely affect the host cells used in the in vitro experiments.

A potential problem with developing RNA as a therapeutic agent is the rapid
degradation of unmodified RNA by ribonucleases in vivo, noted the authors.
They suggested solving this problem by incorporating modified nucleotides into
the RNA chain.

The strain of RSV used during the experiments was the Prague A.  After testing
the selected RNAs against a different strain, the Prague C, the authors found
that the RNA analogs inhibited infection of this strain also, although at
concentrations 15-20 times higher.

Future methods of RNA selection could be performed by alternating between
several strains of virus during the different cycles of selection to
specifically isolate the RNAs and RNA analogs that could bind to several
diverse strains of the virus.  This could be particularly helpful when it
comes to treating viruses with a history of multiple mutations such as HIV,
noted the authors.

Several advantages were noted by the authors for the use of intact biological
entities (infectious virus particles) instead of viral proteins:

* Selection by intact viral particles does not require the full understanding
of all the ways that a virus can infect its host.  If selection is made by an
isolated viral protein, the selection is limited to only the cases in which
proteins responsible for viral infection have been identified and isolated.

* It avoids the problem of structural differences in purified proteins.
Proteins in their purified form may not interact with the protein complexed on
a virion.

* Selection using intact virus particles may lead to the identification of
viral components previously unknown.

"The success of isolating numerous anti-RSV RNAs and RNA analogs from a large
pool of random sequences immediately suggests the potential application of
this approach to isolate RNA and nuclease-resistant RNA analogs against other
viruses such as HIV," concluded Pan et al.

This research was supported by Pennsylvania State University Start-up funds;
National Institutes of Health grant CA47482; American Cancer Society grant
FRA427; and funds from the Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine.

The corresponding author for this study is Jin-Feng Wang, Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State University College of
Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033, USA.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Gene Discovery
Scientists One Step Closer To Understanding Cancer


In a paper published in the October 1995 issue of Nature Genetics, a team led
by University of Houston (UH), Texas, associate professor Dan Wells announced
that it had identified a gene associated with multiple exostoses (spurs or
bony outgrowths) and associated chondrosarcomas (malignant growths in the
cartilage), a form of bone cancer.

The gene, located on chromosome eight, causes a loss of control of bone
growth, and bone spurs begin to grow in unusual places.  Normally these bone
spurs are benign, but sometimes they turn malignant and spread rapidly through
the body, leading to death.  Currently there is no known treatment for this
type of bone cancer.

"This is the first step in the long journey to finding a cure for multiple
exostoses and chondrosarcomas," said Wells.  "Next we have to study the gene
and learn why it malfunctions and the exostoses start to grow.  Only then can
scientists begin to find a cure and ultimately a way to prevent the unwanted
growth from occurring."

Scientists already know that the defective gene is hereditary and that it is a
tumor suppressor gene, a type of gene that prevents tumor growth.  In this
case, it prevents the bones from over growing.

The speed with which the gene was discovered was aided by the Human Genome
Project.  Now in its sixth year, this is a 15-year study sponsored by the
National Science Foundation to map all 23 pairs of chromosomes.  Wells and his
team are working on chromosome eight.  In addition, the European Union and the
Japanese government are funding similar research.

The goal of the Human Genome Project is to determine the complete nucleotide
(the basic structural unit of RNA and DNA) sequence of human DNA.  This
sequence of four nucleotides (referred to as A, C, G and T) is the blueprint
for the human organism.  This blueprint will aid in understanding genetic
diseases and in developing treatments and cures.

Wells' research is being sponsored by the U.S.  National Institutes of Health
(NIH) and the IMB.  The IMB is an interdisciplinary organization of thirteen
UH faculty members from the Departments of Biochemical and Biophysical
Sciences, Biology, and Chemical Engineering that relies extensively on
molecular biology in individual research programs.

For more information on Wells' research, contact him at (713) 743-2671 or the
IMB (713) 743-8363.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Genetics (Risk Assessment)
Graphs Enable Easy, Accurate Assessment of Breast Cancer Risk


A series of graphs can now provide genetic counselors an accurate, easy method
of predicting a woman's absolute risk of developing breast cancer.

The graphs are published in the December 1995 issue of the Journal of Clinical
Oncology, by University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, researcher John J.
Mulvihill, M.D., and Jacques Benichou, M.D., Ph.D., and Mitchell Gail, M.D.,
Ph.D., both of the U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI).

The graphs are based on data from the Breast Cancer Detection Demonstration
Project, a large national study that monitored 280,000 women from 1973 to 1980
to determine risk factors associated with breast cancer.  The findings
resulted in what is called the Gail model, which predicts breast cancer risk
for Caucasian women being screened for breast cancer based on five factors -
age at onset of menstruation, age at first live birth, age at risk evaluation,
number of breast biopsies and number of first-degree relatives with breast
cancer.

"Although the Gail model has proven extremely important for research, it is
difficult to use without complex computer calculations.  We wanted to provide
genetic counselors a more convenient way to assist women in determining their
absolute risk of developing breast cancer," said Mulvihill, professor of human
genetics and co-director of the Pittsburgh Genetics Institute at the
University of Pittsburgh.  "With proper counseling, these graphs should be
invaluable in helping many concerned women understand their breast cancer
risk."

The graphs resulted from the multiplication of three variables that take into
account the Gail model risks, together with a term which depends on whether
any breast biopsy has or has not revealed atypical hyperplasia (a
pre-cancerous condition).  The graphs convert this calculated relative risk
into an absolute risk for a woman of a specific age over a given period of
time.

The graphs do not circumvent the need to collect important information from
women under evaluation and the need to rule out genetic traits that greatly
alter the risk of breast cancer, according to Mulvihill.  Such traits include
rare inherited syndromes that predispose families to cancer and mutations in
the BRCA1 (breast cancer 1) gene.

Mulvihill also cautioned that such graphs need to be used in an ongoing
process of breast cancer screening, counseling and education.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Human Papillomavirus (Diagnostics)
Serum Antibody to HPV-16 VLPs Indicates Cervical HPV-16 Infection


Serum antibody to human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) virus-like particles
(VLPs) could be useful in epidemiology studies and for surveillance.

Louise Wideroff, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland, and colleagues
evaluated an ELISA to detect serum IgG antibody response to HPV-16 VLPs
("Evaluation of Seroreactivity to Human Papillomavirus Type 16 Virus-like
Particles in an Incident Case-Control Study of Cervical Neoplasia," Journal of
Infectious Diseases, December 1995;172:1425-1430).  They used sera collected
from an incident case-control study of cervical neoplasia and compared
serologic results with established DNA markers of cervical HPV-16 infection.

Serum antibody to HPV-16 VLPs is a relatively sensitive indicator of
persisting cervical HPV-16 infection, based on data from the study.

The study included 688 individuals with continued normal cytology (control
group) and 152 patients with confirmed incident squamous intraepithelial
lesions.  The patients were tested for DNA of a broad spectrum of HPV types at
the beginning of the study and at follow-up.

"Of controls, 16.6 percent were seropositive compared with 30.8 percent and
52.4 percent of cases with low- and high-grade lesions, respectively," wrote
Wideroff et al.  "Seropositivity increased from 22.2 percent in subjects who
were HPV-16 DNA positive by polymerase chain reaction once only (enrollment or
follow-up) to 83.3 percent in those who were HPV-16 DNA positive at both time
points."

Because the potential validity of any HPV serologic marker depends on how
valid an indicator it is of exposure to viral antigens, it is essential to pay
close attention to establishing the marker's validity before it is used as a
clinical or research tool, the authors noted.

HPV of differing genotypes encode a range of capsid and nonstructural proteins
that are immunogenic in the infected individual, and efforts to characterize
the host immune response to the antigens have targeted, in part, on
establishing in human sera the prevalence of anti-HPV antibodies.

Challenges associated with culturing HPV to obtain viral antigens by
traditional methods have lead to the development of alternative antigen
sources in order to perform host immune response studies.  Wideroff et al.
noted that such sources include recombinant bacterial fusion proteins,
synthetic peptides and virions produced in xenograft and raft systems.  Empty
capsids, referred to as VLPs, serve as another source of antigen.  VLPs
self-assemble in eukaryotic cells that are infected with HPV expression
vectors, such as baculovirus (Kirnbauer et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA,
1992;89:12180-12184; Rose et al., J Virol, 1993;67:1936-1944; Hagensee et al.,
J Virol, 1993;67:315-322; Kirnbauer et al., J Virol, 1993;67:6929-6936).

Previously reported research studies have demonstrated that self-assembled
HPV-16 L1 plus L2 VLPs, expressed in insect cells via baculovirus vectors, are
capable of detecting anti-HPV-16 IgG antibody in serum by ELISA (Kirnbauer et
al., J Natl Cancer Inst, 1994;86:494-499; Galloway, J Natl Cancer Inst,
1994;86:474-475).

"In epidemiologic applications, serum antibody to HPV-16 VLPs could be a
useful end point biomarker in studies to determine risk factors for HPV
transmission," wrote Wideroff et al.  "It could also be considered an exposure
biomarker to assess immunologic risk factors for HPV-associated disease or as
a surrogate for viral infection itself when biologic samples are unavailable
for DNA testing."

The HPV serologic marker also could be beneficial as a surveillance tool for
estimating the population prevalence of HPV-16 exposure and to inspect
geographic variation and time trends in HPV associated infection, they added.

The HPV-16 serologic assay has been patented by contributing authors J.
Schiller, R.  Kirnbauer and D.  Lowy.  Contributing authors A.  Lorincz and
M.M.  Manos serve as scientific director and consultant, respectively, for
Digene Diagnostics and Information Management Services, Silver Spring,
Maryland.

The corresponding author for this study is Dr.  Louise Wideroff, NCI/DCE/EEB,
EPN 443, 6130 Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7374.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Human Papillomavirus (Vaccine Design)
VLPs from One Variant May Help To Prevent Infection


The finding that two human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) variants are
serologically cross-reactive is encouraging news for the development of a
genital HPV vaccine.

Grace Cheng, U.S.  National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland and
colleagues from the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
Atlanta, Georgia, and the Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark, set out
to find whether DNA sequence variants of HPV-16 are distinct serotypes.

Cheng et al.  compared the reactivities of women's sera from Zaire (n=97) and
Denmark (n=123) ("Divergent Human Papillomavirus Type 16 Variants Are
Serologically Cross-Reactive," Journal of Infectious Diseases, December
1995;172:1584-1587).

For the comparison, they used IgG-specific ELISAs based on virus-like
particles (VLPs) composed of the L1 major capsid protein derived from an
HPV-16 variant commonly found in central Africa (Z-1194) or from a variant
that is common in northern Europe (114K).  Z-1194 was isolated in Zaire from a
woman with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and who also was positive for
HIV.

"We have found that among the 220 women whose sera were tested, almost all who
had a serologic response to one HPV-16 L1 variant also responded to the
other," wrote Cheng et al.  "Therefore we conclude that strains 114K and
Z-1194 are serologically cross-reactive and likely belong to the same
serotype.  This is the case despite a relatively large number of amino acid
differences in the major capsid proteins of the two strains."

The L1s differed in seven amino acids.  In only one serum sample did the
researchers see evidence for a specific reaction to only one, and not the
other VLP variant.

If data from future research studies, which apply other L1 variants and other
sets of sera, substantiate the current findings, this would have several
implications.

The first such implication would be that the lack of serotypic divergence
would suggest individual genital HPV types have not undergone the type of
antigenic drift (such as that seen in influenza viruses) that changes
seroreactivity to virons.

"This implies either that changes in the major seroreactive virion epitopes
cannot be tolerated or that neutralizing antibodies do not play a dominant
role in controlling genital HPV infection under natural conditions," wrote
Cheng et al.

The results also suggest that an ELISA which is based on a single VLP variant
could be applied for evaluating HPV-16 infection in different populations.

"Finally, these results are encouraging from the point of view of developing a
genital HPV vaccine, since they suggest that VLPs from a single HPV-16 variant
might be effective worldwide in preventing HPV-16 infection," Cheng et al.
wrote.

Many of the nucleotide sequence variants of HPV-16 that have been identified
have been isolated in separate geographic areas (Chan et al., J Virol,
1992;66:2057-2066 and 5714-5725; Ho et al., J Virol, 1993;67:6413-6423).

Reinhard Kirnbauer, a co-author of the current report, and colleagues have
performed numerous VLP-based ELISA studies to investigate HPV-16 infection
(Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 1992;89:12180-12184; J Virol, 1993;67:6923-6936; J
Natl Cancer Inst, 1994;86:494-504).

The corresponding author for this study is Dr.  John T.  Schiller, Laboratory
of Cellular Oncology, NCI, NIH, Building 36, Room 1D32, Bethesda, Maryland
20892.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Immunology
Discovery of Tumor Antigens Facilitated by Novel Process


Elusive tumor antigens can't hide from SEREX (serological identification of
antigens by recombinant expression cloning).

The success of recombinant tumor vaccines and other immunotherapeutic
modalities in cancer patients is dependent upon the immune systems recognition
of tumor-specific and tumor-associated antigens.  In spite of extensive
efforts to identify tumor antigens in human neoplasms at the molecular level,
too few have actually been pinpointed.

Ugur Sahin et al.  modified the strategy of autologous typing to allow for an
unbiased search, in addition to the direct molecular definition of,
immunogenic tumor proteins based on their reaction with autologous patient
sera ("Human Neoplasms Elicit Multiple Specific Immune Responses in the
Autologous Host," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, December 5,
1995;92(25):11810-13).

"By applying this strategy of SEREX to four unselected human tumors of
different origin, we discovered an unexpected frequency of tumor antigens that
elicit specific immune responses in the autologous host," stated Sahin et al.
"Since the molecular definition of tumor antigens by SEREX of tumor cDNA is
fast and has a high yield, it may make sense to first define tumor antigens by
SEREX and then to analyze their role in T-cell immunity.  Such a strategy
could provide a rapidly expanding basis for additional approaches to the
immunotherapy and gene therapy of human neoplasms."

The cDNA libraries from diagnostic biopsies of four patients with malignant
melanoma, brain tumor, renal cancer, and Hodgkin disease, were expressed in E.
coli.  In order to test for clones expressing antigens against which the
autologous patient had specific antibodies, 1x10(6) recombinant clones from
each tumor cDNA were screened.  An ELISA modified for the exclusive detection
of human IgG antibodies was used.

Of the 5x10(6) clones tested, 109 were found to be reactive with IgG
antibodies in the serum sample of the autologous patient.  Cross-hybridization
experiments determined that the 109 positive clones contained 24 different
inserts.  From four patients, 24 different antigens were discovered, noted the
authors.

The autologous typing strategy that was modified by the authors was first
developed by L.J.  Old and reported in the 1981 issue of Cancer Research,
41:361-75.

In order to determine the occurrence of antibodies against these newly defined
tumor antigens, different tumor patients and healthy controls donated blood
for testing against these antigens.  Antibodies against the tumor antigens
were detected at varying rates only in patients with the same type of tumor.

The authors noted that the definition of 24 antigens in four tumors of
different origin suggests that the analysis of B-cell responses against other
tumors of the same or new types may identify an unexpected abundance of human
tumor antigens.  Their results suggested that tumor immunogenicity in the
autologous host is a common phenomenon and not restricted to malignant
melanomas.

In addition, the immunogenicity of human tumors seems not to be due to the
expression of a single antigen, but is conferred by multiple antigens.  Their
observation that antibodies against the new antigens could only be found in
the sera of patients bearing the same type of tumor suggested that tumor
growth is essential for the development of a humoral immune response against
the respective tumor antigens, and that antibody production is not an
autoimmune effect elicited by tumor-independent mechanisms.

The authors noted that their study was different from other studies which used
sera to detect antibodies.  Other studies have relied on low-titer serum
antibodies or human monoclonal antibodies generated in vitro from patients'
lymphocytes.  Theirs, on the other hand, uses a stringent serological
detection system which is limited to antigens that elicit high-titer IgG
responses in the patient in vivo.

"According to our data, overexpression of antigens in the tumor compared to
normal tissues seems to be the most common reason for immunogenicity,"
concluded Sahin et al.  "Our observation that tumor antigens defined by T-cell
responses such as MAGE-1 and tyrosinase can also be detected by the
serological approach suggest that an integrated immune response against tumor
antigens may exist that involves both CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells as well as B
cells."

The corresponding author for this study is Michael Pfreundschuh, Medizinische
Klinik and Poliklinik, Innere Medizin I, Universitat des Saarlandes, D-66421
Homburg, Germany.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Joint Venture)
Agreement Signed To Develop Anti-Cancer Therapeutics


Mitotix Incorporated, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and DuPont Merck, Wilmington,
Delaware, announced a collaborative agreement to develop and commercialize
novel anti-cancer therapeutics that act on a group of enzymes called
cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks), that are essential for regulating the cell
division cycle.

Through the agreement, DuPont Merck could invest up to $55 million in Mitotix
in the form of equity, research, development and clinical milestone payments.

The collaboration is initially focusing on three of Mitotix's proprietary
molecular targets.  Under the terms of the agreement, DuPont Merck receives
exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize Cdk-based therapeutics
and radiopharmaceutical diagnostics.

Mitotix retains worldwide rights to develop and commercialize certain Cdk
targets for non-cancer indications, as well as all rights to develop and
commercialize gene therapy and antisense approaches utilizing the Cdk targets.
Mitotix also retains rights to certain diagnostic applications and has an
option to co-promote in the U.S.  any therapeutic products that arise from the
collaboration with DuPont Merck.

The agreement provides Mitotix with an up-front equity investment and Cdk
research funding over four years totaling $17 million.  The agreement involves
up to an additional $38 million in Cdk research funding extensions and product
development related milestone payments to Mitotix, as drugs are successfully
developed and approved.  Mitotix will also receive royalties on net worldwide
sales of all Cdk products.  DuPont Merck will fund all preclinical research
and development activities.  In connection with the agreement, Mitotix's
current venture investors will make an additional $3 million equity investment
in the company.

The cyclin targets covered in the collaboration represent all regulatory
molecules that drive the critical cell cycle transitions from growth through
DNA replication.  The collaboration initially seeks to develop therapeutic
products for the treatment of cancer through inhibition of these essential Cdk
molecules.  Specifically, Mitotix and DuPont Merck will work to identify
inhibitors of cyclin D1 and cyclin E, and mimetics of the tumor suppressor
gene, p16, to control the inappropriate cell division that is the hallmark of
cancer.

"A key focus of the research program with DuPont Merck is on the molecular
pathway that includes Cyclin D1 and p16," said Dr.  David Beach, a Howard
Hughes Medical Institute Investigator at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and a
scientific co-founder of Mitotix.  "In most cancers one or more of the
components of this pathway, which controls the cell's entry into the process
of DNA replication, are deregulated."

Cyclin D1 and p16 act as molecular "on" and "off" switches in driving the
process of DNA replication.  Research has shown that cyclin D1 is expressed at
high levels in a variety of tumors, including breast, colon, esophageal
cancers, and lymphomas.  Additionally, a large body of recent research has
demonstrated that in 20 to 50 percent of tumors, including breast, bladder,
esophageal and skin cancers, the natural cell cycle inhibitor p16 is missing
or mutated, thus allowing uncontrolled cell growth.

Cyclin E acts at a similar regulatory point in the cell cycle to cyclin D1,
but through a distinct biochemical pathway.  Recently published research has
shown that elevated levels of cyclin E appear to increase the rate at which
cells divide.  Mitotix holds exclusive worldwide rights to cyclin D1 and p16
from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, based on discoveries made by Beach.
Mitotix also has exclusive worldwide rights to cyclin D1 patent applications
from the Massachusetts General Hospital, and exclusive therapeutic rights to
an issued U.S.  patent covering cyclin E from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center.

Separately, the partners have agreed to conduct initial research to assess the
development of anti-cancer therapeutics that act by inhibiting
ubiquitin-mediated degradation.  The specific terms of this separate research
effort were not disclosed.  The collaboration, which builds on previous work
by Mitotix scientists, is designed to inhibit the ubiquitin-mediated
degradation of p53, thereby increasing levels of the protein and driving tumor
cells into apoptosis (programmed cell death).  The p53 protein normally acts
as a tumor suppressor gene that functions to halt the cell division cycle to
allow for DNA repair.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Joint Venture)
Anticancer Drug Licensing/Research Agreement Signed


Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey, and EntreMed, Inc.,
Rockville, Maryland, announced an agreement in which Bristol-Myers Squibb will
obtain exclusive worldwide licensing rights to antiangiogenic compounds now in
development by EntreMed, Inc.

Antiangiogenic therapies, which have been shown in preclinical studies to
prevent the abnormal formation of blood vessels, have the potential to block
the growth of primary and metastatic cancers by eliminating a tumor's blood
supply.

Under the terms of the agreement, Bristol-Myers Squibb has made an equity
investment in EntreMed and will fund a five-year research collaboration in the
area of angiogenesis and its application in the treatment of cancer.  In
return, Bristol-Myers Squibb will obtain worldwide licensing rights to the
recently discovered antiangiogenic applications of the drugs thalidomide,
thalidomide analogs and Angiostatin protein, which have generated considerable
interest in the medical community.

Angiostatin is a novel protein which may suppress malignant tumor formation by
inhibiting the growth of blood vessels.  In preclinical trials, it has
successfully caused the regression of primary human breast, prostate, and
colon tumors in animal models.

Thalidomide, developed as a sedative, has not been approved in the U.S., and
it was originally associated with birth defects.  However, if it is shown to
be an effective antiangiogenic therapy in humans, it has the potential to
become a significant anticancer agent.  There are currently no antiangiogenic
products approved for the treatment of cancer.

Angiogenesis research was pioneered by Judah Folkman, M.D., director of the
Surgical Research Laboratory at Children's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts,
and professor of pediatric surgery at Harvard Medical School.  Folkman was the
first to observe that cancerous tissues are fed by newly-grown blood vessels
sprouting from existing arteries.

He theorized that if doctors could prevent these blood vessels from growing,
then the tumor would starve.  Since Children's Hospital has a sponsored
research agreement with EntreMed, Bristol-Myers Squibb will obtain first
refusal rights on any antiangiogenic technologies developed in Folkman's
laboratory and licensed by EntreMed.

It is expected that the first clinical trials to test the antiangiogenic
properties of these compounds in cancer will begin in 1996.  EntreMed has
already initiated clinical trials with thalidomide in the treatment of
blindness due to age-related macular degeneration, another angiogenic
disorder.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Therapy)
DaunoXome Shows Promise as Treatment


Moderate-dose DaunoXome, a liposomal formulation of the anticancer agent
daunorubicin, is well-tolerated and has promising efficacy in treating
advanced breast cancer.

The data was presented by NeXstar Pharmaceuticals', Boulder, Colorado, at the
18th Annual San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, held December 10-13, 1995 in
San Antonio, Texas.

Moreover, the limited toxicity observed in this trial, particularly the
absence of cardiotoxicity, suggests that DaunoXome may be useful in
ameliorating the side-effects that now accompany high-dose anthracycline-based
chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer.  The data, generated in a Phase II
study funded by NeXstar, were presented by P.S.  Hupperets, M.D., of the
Akademisch Ziekenhuis, in Maastricht, the Netherlands.

Eleven women with previously untreated, newly diagnosed metastatic breast
cancer received DaunoXome at a dose of 100 mg/m(2) every three weeks for as
long as 24 weeks.  Even at this moderate dose, three patients (27 percent)
developed a partial response, seven (63 percent) had stable disease, and one
patient (10 percent) experienced no therapeutic benefit.

Toxicity was minimal:  no patients lost hair, and only two patients reported
mild nausea.  Six patients showed evidence of bone marrow suppression, which
did not limit treatment and which recovered without supporting therapy.  No
patients demonstrated signs of cardiotoxicity.

"These data demonstrate that moderate-dose DaunoXome therapy produces the same
kind of response rates as conventional single-agent doxorubicin therapy, but
with a much improved side-effects profile," said Michael E.  Ross, NeXstar's
vice president for medical and regulatory affairs.

"We believe that these results bode well not only for the expanded trials
we're conducting in breast cancer, but for the other solid tumor indications
in which DaunoXome is being tested.  We also believe that the absence of
cardiotoxicity suggests that DaunoXome may play an important role in replacing
conventional anthracyclines in high-dose, multiple-agent chemotherapy
regimens."  Such studies are currently in progress.

DaunoXome has already been approved in the United Kingdom (U.K.)  and Sweden
as a primary therapy for the treatment of advanced Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) in
HIV positive patients, and is awaiting final approval in the United States for
the same indication.

In addition to the Phase II study in breast cancer, the company is conducting
Phase II trials with DaunoXome in small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung
cancer, hepatocellular cancer, adult and childhood leukemia, brain tumor,
bladder cancer and lymphoma.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Therapy)
Ethyol Approved for Marketing by FDA To Treat Ovarian Cancer


U.S.  Bioscience, Inc., West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, announced that Ethyol
(amifostine, WR-2721), a selective cytoprotective agent, was cleared for
marketing by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Ethyol is indicated to reduce the cumulative renal (kidney) toxicity
associated with repeated administration of cisplatin in patients with advanced
ovarian cancer.  Ethyol represents a class of selective systemic
cytoprotective agents which, when administered prior to treatment, can protect
healthy cells from the damaging effects of chemotherapy.

Ethyol is expected to be available to physicians and patients in early 1996.
U.S.  Bioscience is currently in the advanced stage of negotiation with a
potential marketing partner.

U.S.  Bioscience had previously secured a recommendation for marketing
approval for Ethyol by the European Committee for Propriety Medicinal Products
(CPMP) for reduction of neutropenia related risk of infection (e.g.
neutropenic fever) from cyclophosphamide and cisplatin in patients with
advanced ovarian cancer.

U.S.  Bioscience recently submitted a dossier to the CPMP requesting an
expansion of the CPMP indication for Ethyol to include protection against
renal toxicity resulting from repeated courses of cisplatin.  Ethyol has
recently been launched by Schering-Plough in a number of major European
markets.  Ethyol is currently under review in Canada where Eli Lilly will
market the product under an alliance reached with U.S.  Bioscience earlier in
1995.

Ethyol has a unique history representing an unanticipated benefit of the Cold
War era.  It originated in a previously classified United States Army nuclear
warfare research project, where the drug, known as WT-2721, was selected as
the best of over 4,000 chemicals tested for development as a compound which
might protect soldiers from radiation exposure.  Once the project became
declassified, oncologists began exploring the potential role of Ethyol in
medicine as a means of selectively reducing the serious toxicities associated
with radiation therapy used to treat cancer patients, as well as chemotherapy.

U.S.  Bioscience will continue to investigate Ethyol in other cancers
utilizing different chemotherapeutic combinations as well as radiation
therapy.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Industry News (Vaccines)
Survival Improvement Shown in Breast Cancer Trial with Theratope


Dr.  Grant MacLean, Medical Oncologist and principal investigator for
Biomira's clinical study at the Cross Cancer Institute in Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada, presented results of Biomira's Phase II clinical trials of Theratope
therapeutic vaccine, in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

The meeting "Novel Vaccine Strategies:  Immunotherapeutic Strategies for
Cancer" Conference was held in San Diego, California.  Theratope is a
non-toxic therapy designed to stimulate the immune system of cancer patients
to respond against the cancer.  The study was conducted over a 2-1/2 year
period at the Cross Cancer Institute in Edmonton and Guy's Hospital in London,
United Kingdom (U.K.).

Among 48 women in a randomized clinical trial, MacLean reported that 24 who
received Theratope in its standard investigational program had a statistically
significant increase in survival over 24 women in the other study group who
did not receive the standard immunomodulation prior to Theratope treatment.
The women on the standard Theratope program have a projected median survival
of 19.7 months versus 12.6 months for the other study group, with statistical
significant at P=0.018.

In addition to increased survival, the women on the standard Theratope program
had statistically significant higher levels of antibodies against a specific
molecule, Sialyl-Tn (STn), found on the surface of breast cancer cells, than
was observed with those who received the alternate Theratope program.

Since receiving the analysis of the data, Biomira has been consulting with
clinical investigators and scientists about these results and will be
contacting regulatory officials in the U.S., Canada and Europe to discuss
their recommendations for the next steps to take Theratope therapeutic vaccine
to commercialization for women who suffer from metastatic breast cancer.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Preventive Medicine
Organization Criticizes Task Force Recommendations


The American College of Radiology (ACR) strongly disagrees with statements
made by the U.S.  Preventive Services Task Force regarding mammography
screening and screening and treatment for prostate cancer.

The college is particularly concerned about suggestions that breast cancer
screening is not warranted for women under the age of 50 and over the age of
70.  The ACR also believes that colorectal screening should include all
appropriate strategies, including the double contrast barium enema.  In
addition, the College contests the Task Force's suggestion that prostate
cancer patients over the age of 70 should not be treated for their disease.

The American College of Radiology reaffirms its support for mammography
screening beginning by the age of 40.  Mammography screening provides for
early detection, and early detection increases a woman's chance for survival.
When a woman has her breast cancer detected early she has more treatment
options.

Beginning by the age of 40 a woman should have an annual clinical breast
examination and a mammogram every one to two years.  Beginning at age 50, she
should have an annual clinical breast examination and a mammogram every year.

The Task Force says that there is no strong evidence for or against
mammography screening in the younger age group.  On the contrary, evidence out
of Kopparberg, Sweden, British Columbia, Edinburgh and in the 14-year
follow-up of the Breast Cancer Demonstration Project in the United States
strongly suggest a benefit.  In addition, preliminary reports out of
Gothenburg, Sweden show a strong survival benefit for screening younger women.

Mammography screening should not be discontinued in women 70 and older, as
suggested by the Task Force.  More than one-third of breast cancer cases are
in this age group.  Further, the fastest growing segment of the population are
those who are 100 years and older.  Most are in good health.  Women in all age
groups have the right to have their breast cancer detected early and treated
properly.

The U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI) recently reported a decline in the
number of breast cancer deaths, which has been attributed, at least in part,
to the increase in the number of women who are undergoing regular screening.
There was an 8.1 percent decrease in deaths in Caucasian women ages 40-49 and
a 3.4 percent decrease in deaths in women 70-79.

Research indicates that the double contrast barium enema, long an accepted
method for imaging high risk patients for colorectal cancer, is also a viable
screening examination for low-risk patients.  The Office of Technology
Assessment (OTA) recently found the double contrast barium enema and flexible
sigmoidoscopy to be the most cost-effective colorectal cancer strategies.

Prostate cancer survival rates are 94 percent if the disease is caught early.
While no screening test is perfect, the digital rectal examination and the
prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood test have proven to be effective in
diagnosing the disease.  The American Cancer Society recommends that every man
40 and older should have a digital rectal examination each year.  Beginning at
age 50, men should have an annual PSA blood test.  The American College of
Radiology endorses these guidelines, noting that studies which show no
advantage to screening are out-of-date and controversial in their
interpretation.

The Task Force again targets the older American in its suggestion that the
risks outweigh the benefits of treatment for prostate cancer.  The risks of
radiation therapy are minimal.  A patient and his doctor need to determine
what, if any treatment is appropriate.

Every patient has a right to know, as soon as possible, if he or she has
cancer.  Each cancer patient has a right to discuss their treatment options
with their physician and make a personal decision as to the appropriate
treatment.  These rights should not be overshadowed by any recommendations or
suggestions of the Task Force.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transplantation (BMT)
HLA-Matched Unrelated Donors Are Good Option for CML Patients


Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from HLA-matched volunteer unrelated donors
(VUDs) can cure a significant number of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML).

For patients with CML, allogeneic BMT is established as an effective means to
restore normal hematopoiesis.  However, the lack of a suitable HLA-identical
sibling has led to more frequent use of VUDs.  Compared with HLA-identical
sibling donor BMT, VUD BMT has been associated with greater morbidity and
mortality, especially because of greater rates of graft-versus-host disease
(GVHD) and graft failure.

Andrew Spencer, Leukemia Research Fund Center for Adult Leukemia, Royal
Postgraduate Medical School, London, England, and colleagues performed an
analysis of the outcome of VUD BMT in 115 patients with CML at their
institution ("Bone Marrow Transplantation for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia with
Volunteer Unrelated Donors Using Ex Vivo or In Vivo T-Cell Depletion:  Major
Prognostic Impact of HLA Class I Identity between Donor and Recipient," Blood,
1995;86(9):3590-3597).

Their aim was to identify which patients are most likely to benefit from VUD
BMT.

"We have demonstrated that VUD BMT can cure a significant number of
appropriately selected patients with CML," wrote Spencer et al.  They added
that the availability of high-resolution tissue typing techniques enables more
accurate predictions of outcome after VUD BMT.  The use of such methods should
allow the more appropriate use of VUD BMT in managing CML.

"In young, chronic phase patients lacking an HLA-matched sibling, a search for
an unrelated donor should be commenced immediately," wrote Spencer et al.  "If
a potential donor, matched using high-resolution typing techniques, is
identified, BMT should be considered as soon as possible."

Spencer et al.  performed 115 VUD BMT for first chronic phase or advanced
phase CML between August 1985 and July 1994.  They supplemented standard
serologic HLA typing of recipients and potential donors with one-dimensional
isoelectric focusing (IEF) for class I proteins, allogenotyping for DR and DQ
alleles using DNA restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and
the measurement of antirecipient major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte precursor cells in the donors' blood (CTLp assay).

The overall leukemia-free survival (LFS) at three years was 37 percent.  The
probabilities of survival and LFS for patients under the age of 40 years who
were transplanted in the first chronic phase from an IEF-matched donor were 73
percent and 50 percent, respectively.

"We conclude that VUD BMT is a reasonable option for patients with CML; when
using ex vivo or in vivo T-cell depletion, optimal results are achieved in
patients transplanted in chronic phase with marrow from donors without
demonstrable class I HLA mismatch and a low CTLp frequency," wrote Spencer et
al.

The current study showed an association between graft failure and increasing
donor age that has not been recognized before.  The graft failure rate of 16
percent reported by Spender et al.  corresponds to that reported by other
researchers (McGlave et al., Blood, 1990;75:1728; McGlave et al., Blood,
1993;81:543).

Researchers have indicated that about two-thirds of patients, otherwise
eligible for BMT, lack a matched sibling donor (Beatty et al.,
Transplantation, 1988;45:714).

The corresponding author for this study is Andrew Spencer, LRF Centre for
Adult Leukaemia, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Du Cane Road, London W12
ONN, United Kingdom.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transplantation (Cord Blood)
Improved Methods Address Storage and Cell Viability Challenges


Recent processing improvements should make frozen placental/umbilical cord
blood (PCB) a more useful source of hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow
reconstitution.

Pablo Rubinstein and colleagues, Lindsley F.  Kimball Research Institute of
the New York Blood Center, New York, New York, addressed two key requirements
for moving unrelated-donor PCB transplantation forward as a practical
alternative for clinical use ("Processing and Cryopreservation of
Placental/Umbilical Cord Blood for Unrelated Bone Marrow Reconstitution,"
Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  USA, 1995;92(22):10119-10122).

First, they developed a method that maximizes freezer storage space by
concentrating the hematopoietic cells of PCB units into units of smaller
volume.  Second, they developed a method to overcome loss of viability
associated with cryopreservation and thawing.

In the unrelated donor/recipient setting, human leukocyte antigen
(HLA)-matched donors must be obtained for candidate patients.  This requires
the establishment of large panels of frozen HLA-typed PCB units, noted
Rubinstein et al.  This effort typically involves a large volume of
unprocessed PCB units consisting primarily of red blood cells, plasma and
cryopreservation medium, which take up limited, expensive frozen storage space
in liquid nitrogen.

Rubinstein et al.  designed a closed-system procedure, compatible with routine
blood bank processing, that concentrates almost all the leukocytes and
progenitor cells in PCB units.  The procedure is based on a hydroxyethyl
starch (HES)-induced rouleaux formation and mild centrifugation to separate a
leukocyte-rich supernatant from sedimented red blood cells.

"Since the probability of finding an HLA-matched unit depends on the number of
units available and since the number of units that can be stored in a given
space is determined by the average unit volume, smaller PCB units are
essential for PCB to become a practical source of tissue for unrelated
transplantation," wrote Rubinstein et al.

Decreasing the volume of PCB units by removing the bulk of red blood cells and
plasma offers practical advantages such as convenience, cost and efficiency,
compared with current options.

The second issue - reduced cell viability after the cryopreserved PCB units
are thawed - was diminished by adding one volume of isotonic diluent to the
cell suspension in 10 percent dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO).

Dilution of the freshly thawed cryopreserved unit with an equal volume of
isotonic solution allows the product to be thawed and prepared for infusion
under controlled laboratory conditions instead of at the patient's bedside,
noted the researchers.

"Removal of the cryoprotective medium can be performed there [the laboratory
setting], without harm to the units:  clonogenic activity and viability remain
essentially unchanged, even if removal of diluted DMSO is delayed for several
hours," wrote Rubinstein et al.

Removing DMSO eliminates its unfavorable side effects on the recipient
(Stroncek et al., Transfusion, 1991;31:521-526; Davis et al., Blood,
1990;75:781-786).

"These improvements make frozen PCB a more effective source of stem cells for
unrelated marrow reconstitution in the treatment of inherited disease and
hematologic malignancy and, potentially, for recombinant DNA-based gene
therapy," wrote Rubinstein et al.

The same procedure to minimize loss of viability might be used in the
cryopreservation process for bone marrow and peripheral blood stem and
progenitor cells.  It also may be possible to remove malignant cells or to
introduce chemical or genetic labels into cells before infusion.

Numerous advantages in using PCB as donor tissue for unrelated bone marrow
restoration have been reported, including timely availability of PCB to
patients and lower frequency of certain infections, as described in an earlier
published review (Rubinstein et al., Blood, 1993;7:1679-1690).

Another significant advantage of PCB grafts is their remarkably lower
incidence of associated graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a major cause of
morbidity and mortality in bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients (Sullivan,
in Bone Marrow Transplantation, eds.  Forman, Blume & Thomas, 1994, Blackwell,
Boston, pp.  339-362).

In February 1993 the New York Blood Center's Placental Blood Project started
collecting PCB units to study the clinical usefulness of this source of stem
cells (Rubinstein, Blood Cells, 1994;20:587-600).  Of the 24 patients who
received PCB grafts before February 26, 1995, 12 still were alive and doing
well as of March 30, 1995.  None of the recipients developed clinically severe
GVHD within follow-up periods of 2 to 18 months.

This work was supported in part by Grant HL 48031 from the National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health, and by grants
from Baxter Health Care and Citibank.

The corresponding author for this study is Pablo Rubinstein, Laboratory of
Immunogenetics, Lindsley F.  Kimball Research Institute of the New York Blood
Center, 310 East 67th Street, New York, New York 10021.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Gene Therapy
"Suppression of Human U87 Glioblastoma Tumor Growth in the Flank of Nude Mice
with Antisense Oligonucleotides to the c-myb Oncogene."  V.C.  Low, C.  You,
E.P.  Flores, L.  Chiang, J.A.  Conrad, X.Q.  Liu, D.Y.K.  Wen and W.A.  Hall.

Departments of Neurosurgery and Physiology, and Program in Neuroscience,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 25th Annual Meeting
of the Society for Neuroscience, held November 11-16, 1995, in San Diego,
California, "c-myb is a proto-oncogene which encodes a nuclear protein
involved in the regulation of the cell cycle.  This oncogene is typically over
expressed in various types of cancer.  Previous studies in our laboratories
demonstrated that antisense oligonucleotides to the c-myb oncogene can
suppress the proliferation of human medulloblastoma and glioblastoma cells
grown in vitro.  In the present study, we have examined the effects of
antisense administration in vivo using nude mice as tumor transplant
recipients.  Human glioblastoma of the U87 cell line were injected into the
flank of nude mice (5x10(6) cells).  Ten days after the injection of the tumor
cells, animals received injections of either c-myb antisense or nonsense (100
(micro)M), or Hank's balanced salt solution (HBSS) in 50 (micro)l volumes
directly into the tumor.  Antisense oligos were designed for codons 182-188 of
the c-myb oncogene.  Antisense injections were given at days 10, 12, 14, and
16 after the transplantation of the tumor cells.  Tumor volume (mm(3)) was
measured daily for each animal over a period of 17 days.  Animals given
injections of HBSS exhibited tumors at day 17 which significantly increased in
size to 217% (P<0.05) of the volume prior to HBSS administration.  Animals
given nonsense oligonucleotides also exhibited tumors which significantly
increased in size by 210% (P<0.05).  In contrast, animals receiving c-myb
antisense exhibited no significant increase in tumor size with tumors only
128% of their pre-antisense treatment size.  These results suggest that the
administration of antisense to codons 182-188 of the c-myb oncogene can
suppress U87 tumor growth in vivo, and may thus be an effective form of
therapy in treating human brain tumors.  (Supported by a grant from the
American Cancer Society)."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Vaccines
"Gene Therapy for Brain Tumors by Autologous Vaccination with Engineered
GM-CSF Secreting Tumor Cells."  J.S.  Yu, J.A.  Butwick, G.  Dkanoff, E.A.
Chiocca and X.O.  Breakefield.  Neurosurgery Service and Molecular

Neurogenetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusetts; Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 25th Annual Meeting
of the Society for Neuroscience, held November 11-16, 1995, in San Diego,
California, "We have developed an ex vivo gene therapy paradigm for the
treatment of brain tumors using granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating
factor (GM-CSF).  The murine B16 melanoma and the GL 261 glioma lines were
infected with MFG recombinant retrovirus containing the mouse GM-CSF cDNA.
The tumor lines were confirmed to secrete GM-CSF by ELISA.  Subcutaneous
vaccination of syngeneic mice with irradiated GM-CSF-secreting B16 melanoma
cells completely protected animals from subsequent intracranial B16 tumor
inoculation.  Histologic evaluation revealed the presence of neutrophils,
eosinophils and lymphocytes in the intracerebral inoculation site.  In
contrast, animals vaccinated with irradiated B16 cells or not vaccinated
succumbed to intracranial tumor within 3 weeks after inoculation.  Treatment
of established intracranial B16 melanoma tumors with subcutaneous injection of
irradiated GMCSF secreting B16 cells increased median survival as compared to
injection of irradiated B16 cells or no treatment.  In addition, treatment of
intracerebral glioma with subcutaneous vaccination with irradiated,
GM-CSF-secreting autologous cells also increased survival compared to
controls.  Histologic examination revealed a dramatic perivascular lymphocytic
infiltrate beginning 3 days after treatment with GM-CSF transduced cells which
was not found in controls."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Differentiation Between Tuberculosis and Malignant Lymphoma in Abdominal
Lymph Nodes with Contrast-Enhanced CT."  Z.G.  Yang, P.Q.  Min, Z.Y.  He and
X.P.  Choc.  Chengdu, China.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  Tuberculosis of abdominal
lymph nodes is in some countries and can be easily misdiagnosed as malignant
lymphoma.  This study evaluates specific imaging criteria for differentiating
tuberculosis from malignant lymphoma in abdominal lymph nodes on contrast
enhanced CT.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  The enhanced CT features of 125 sites in
50 patients, including tuberculosis (20 patients) and malignant lymphoma (30
patients) in abdominal lymph nodes, were retrospectively evaluated in a blind
review for the enhancement criteria of morphology, density, and location.
RESULTS:  Approximately 94% of sites of tuberculosis showed a ringlike
enhancement of enlarged lymph nodes, as compared with 4% of the sites of
malignant lymphoma (P<.01).  Approximately 55% of the patients with
tuberculosis had a mass of multilocular appearance compared with 4% of the
patients with malignant lymphoma (P<.01).  Tuberculosis frequently involved
the mesenteric, omental, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes, while malignant
lymphoma frequently involved the retroperitoneal space.  But, the
retroperitoneal lymph nodes under L-2 were involved with tuberculosis in only
8% of the patients, whereas malignant lymphoma involved about 20% (P<.01).
Combining all criteria, reviewers diagnosed tuberculosis correctly in 94%,
with 93% specificity and 95% sensitivity.  CONCLUSION:  The differentiation of
tuberculosis from malignant lymphoma can be made with contrast-enhanced CT on
the basis of characteristic enhancement and sites of involved
lymphadenopathy."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Esophageal Lymphoma and Viral 'Pseudolymphoma' in Patients with AIDS."  D.H.
Frager, C.  Rodeo, B.J.  Perlman, D.  Kotler, B.  Fein and J.  Frager.  New
York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To illustrate the
difficulty in establishing the diagnosis of esophageal lymphoma in patients
with AIDS and concomitant viral infection.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Esophageal
lymphoma or possible esophageal lymphoma was diagnosed in 8 AIDS patients over
a 4-year period.  Six patients underwent esophagography, in addition to
endoscopy and biopsy.  Four patients underwent repeated biopsies.  No patients
underwent immunologic marker studies.  RESULTS:  Only 1 patient had a polypoid
mass in the distal esophagus typical of neoplasm.  The other 7 patients had
esophageal ulcers that radiologically and at gross inspection endoscopically
were considered of viral (cytomegalovirus [CMV] or idiopathic) origin.
Pathologic examination initially suggested lymphoma in all 7 patients with
concomitant CMV in 5.  Follow-up biopsies revealed that the 'lymphomatous'
infiltrate was actually inflammatory reaction in 3.  In 1 patient, an isolated
CMV inclusion was discovered on the 2nd biopsy, and the esophageal ulcer
resolved with ganciclovir despite continued pathologic evidence of lymphoma.
CONCLUSION:  Esophageal lymphoma and viral infection coexist such that there
can be considerable diagnostic and thereby therapeutic confusion in regard to
these patients.  In patients with radiologically benign viral ulcers, repeat
biopsy or marker studies of pathologically 'lymphomatous' lesions are in
order."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Thoracic Neoplasms in AIDS:  Can We Tell Them Apart?."  H.K.  Pannu, J.F.
Gruden and S.A.  Oldham.  Houston, Texas.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "There is an increased risk of
malignancy in patients with AIDS.  This is likely due to a combination of
immunosuppression and possibly an oncogenic effect by the HIV itself.  Kaposi
sarcoma, AIDS related nonHodgkin lymphoma, and invasive cervical carcinoma are
classified as AIDS-defining illnesses.  Hodgkin disease, bronchogenic
carcinoma, and anal carcinoma may also be associated with AIDS, although this
is controversial.  The purpose of this exhibit is to describe the radiographic
and CT appearances of these tumors and of metastatic disease in the chest in
AIDS patients.  Emphasis will be placed on definition of distinguishing
features of these neoplasms, although biopsy of focal disease is often needed
for ultimate diagnosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Disease Associations
"AIDS Related Lymphoma:  Spinal Involvement."  Y.  Cordoliani, J.  Sarrazin,
D.  Soulie, D.  Jeanbourquin, O.  Helie and G.  Cosnard.  Paris, France.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "This exhibit illustrates the
different mechanisms of spinal involvement by lymphoma.  Various kinds of
involvement are shown, including intramedullary lymphoma, lymphomatous
arachnoiditis, epidural lymphoma, and retroperitoneal lymphoma invading
epidural space.  Intramedullary AIDS related primary lymphoma is very unusual,
but primary or secondary lymphoma can occur in both intradural and epidural
spaces.  Diagnosis is made by means of lumbar puncture or biopsy.  For
intramedullary lymphoma in which biopsy is potentially dangerous, an empiric
antitoxoplasmic treatment should be undertaken if cerebrospinal fluid study
does not show lymphomatous cells.  If there is no improvement in the clinical
status and no decrease in the volume of the lesion, biopsy must be considered.
Radiation therapy can cure the lesion."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Gene Delivery (Brain Cancer)
"Extended Transfer of HSV-TK Gene into Disseminated 9L Brain Tumors by
Intraarterial and Intraventricular Delivery of a Herpes Vector."  C.M.  Kramm,
N.G.  Rainov, M.  Chase, M.  Sena-Esteves, E.A.  Chiocca and X.O.

Breakefield.  Molecular Neurogenetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 25th Annual Meeting
of the Society for Neuroscience, held November 11-16, 1995, in San Diego,
California, "The aim of the present study was to improve delivery of
therapeutic herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) gene into
disseminated brain tumor masses by intraarterial and intraventricular
injection of vectors.  The herpes vector hrR3 was used because highest gene
transfer efficiency was achieved after intratumoral application in our
laboratory with this vector, as compared to retrovirus or adenovirus vectors.
hrR3 bears the HSV-TK and the E.  coli lacZ reporter gene and has a deletion
in the ribonucleotide reductase gene, which allows selective virus replication
in dividing cells.  Two different models of disseminated 9L brain tumors were
established 5-7 days before intraarterial or intraventricular injections of
hrR3.  For intraarterial application bradykinin was injected prior to the
vector to disrupt selectively the blood-tumor-barrier.  Transfer efficiency of
the HSV-TK and lacZ genes was investigated in multiple tumor foci throughout
both hemispheres.  Intraventricular delivery of hrR3 was achieved via
stereotactical injections into the cisterna magna, and distribution of the
HSV-TK and lacZ genes was evaluated in a model with a right frontal lobe tumor
and extensive leptomeningeal tumor spread throughout the CSF pathways.  HSV-TK
and lacZ gene delivery was assessed in tumor masses and in normal brain at
different time points by immunohistochemical and histochemical detection of
the gene products.  With intraarterial application of hrR3 following selective
disruption of the blood-tumor barrier by bradykinin, transfer of the HSV-TK
and lacZ genes was found almost exclusively in the periphery of all
disseminated tumor foci.  Normal brain was not affected, and no toxicity was
observed.  Intraventricular delivery of the vector resulted in expression of
the HSV-TK and lacZ genes in the intracerebral and the leptomeningeal tumor
masses.  Some toxicity was observed with intensive leptomeningeal inflammation
and temporary infection of periventricular areas of the brain.  Intratumoral
HSV-TK and lacZ expression was strongest within the first 2 days after
intraarterial or intrathecal herpes injection, but was still detectable up to
at least 16 days after virus application, consistent with vector replication
in the tumors.  Both application strategies provide a marked extension of TK
gene transfer efficiency, as compared to intratumoral delivery.  Study
supported by NINDS grant NS24279.  CMK is a fellow of the Deutsche Krebshilfe.
NGR is a Wilhelm-Toennis-scholar."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Immunology
"Immunization and Ganciclovir Treatment Delay the Formation of HSV-TK
Expressing Brain Tumors in Rats Through Immunologic Suppression."  U.  Blomer,
D.  Barha, D.A.  Petersen and F.H.  Gage.  Department of Neurosurgery

University of California at San Diego, San Diego, California; The Salk
Institut, La Jolla, California.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 25th Annual Meeting
of the Society for Neuroscience, held November 11-16, 1995, in San Diego,
California, "Immunity to tumors develops following ganciclovir (GCV) treatment
of brain tumors expressing the Herpes Simplex Virus-thymidine kinase (HSV-TK)
gene.  To study if HSV-TK by itself might contribute to the anti-tumor
immunogenicity, the growth of non-immunogenic D74 tumors, wild type (D74-w.t.)
and TK-modified D74 (D74-TK) brain tumor cells, were studied in naive rats and
rats previously treated and cured of 9L, tumors by HSV-TK and GCV treatments.
Formation of the D74-TK tumors were significantly reduced in both naive and
pretreated rats, even though the in vitro growth rate of these tumors was
similar.  Analysis of immune cells infiltrating the tumors revealed a
significant increase in the CD4 positive cells in TK-modified tumor cells in
the previously treated rats.  Furthermore the regression of the D74-TK tumors
was greater in the previously treated rats.  These findings suggest that even
in non immunogenic tumors, the expression of HSV-TK slows the tumor formation,
that can be associated with the immune response.  This immunity could be
exploited by vaccination strategies to increase tumor regression seen with
HSV-TK and GCV treatments.  Supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(BL-389 1/1)."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Therapy (Kaposi Sarcoma)
"Radiation Therapy of the Oral Cavity and Oropharynx In Patients with AIDS
Related Kaposi Sarcoma."  L.Z.  Nisce, M.  Coleman and T.P.  Kaulmann.  New
York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  The well-documented
phenomenon of exaggerated mucosal toxicity in patients with AIDS treated with
radiation therapy has generally precluded the use of this modality in patients
with Kaposi sarcoma involving the head and neck.  A study to evaluate the
feasibility of radiation therapy with an intensive oral care and radiation
planning technique was assessed at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical
Center from 1991 to 1995.  CONCLUSION:  Numerous reports discourage the use of
radiation therapy in this group of patients.  Our preliminary results
demonstrate that radiation therapy is feasible and can markedly improve their
quality of life."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Antisense Technology
Vaerman, J.L.; Lammineur, C.; Moureau, P.; Lewalle, P.; Deldime, F.;
Blumenfeld, M.  "BCR-ABL Antisense Oligodeoxyribonucleotides Suppress the
Growth of Leukemic and Normal Hematopoietic Cells by a Sequence-Specific But

Nonantisense Mechanism."  Blood, November 15, 1995;86(10):3891-3896.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Blood, "We have
examined the effect of BCR/ABL junctional antisense phosphodiester
oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODNs) on BV173 and other chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML) cell lines.  Various control ODNs were used to understand the mechanism
of the observed antiproliferative effect.  Not only the antisense ODNs but
also several control ODNs inhibit the proliferation of the leukemic cell
lines.  All the ODNs that inhibit the cell proliferation share a TAT consensus
sequence at their 3' end, A 1-base mismatch within this consensus sequence
abolishes the antiproliferative effect.  Mismatches of several bases at any
other position within the sequence of the active ODNs do not suppress the
observed effect.  Similar experiments on normal or CML CD34(+) cell fraction
led to the same observations.  We conclude that the antiproliferative effect
of the phosphodiester BCR/ABL antisense ODNs cannot be attributed to an
antisense mechanism but rather to a nonelucidated effect of a 3' terminal TAT
sequence.  This effect is not CML specific."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  JL Vaerman, Univ Catholique Louvain, Clin St Luc, Biol Molec
Clin Lab, Clos Chapelle Aux Champs 30-3046, B-1200 Brussels, Belgium.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  W B Saunders
Co, Independence Square West, Curtis Center, Ste 300, Philadelphia, PA
19106-3399.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Bladder Cancer
Rintala, E.; Jauhiainen, K.; Rajala, P.; Ruutu, M.; Kaasinen, E.; Alfthan, O.;
Hansson, E.; Juusela, H.; Kanerva, K.; Korhonen, H.; Nurmi, M.; Permi, J.;
Petays, P.; Tainio, H.; Talja, M.; Tuhkanen, K.; Viitanen, J.  "Alternating

Mitomycin C and Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Instillation Therapy for Carcinoma in
Situ of the Bladder."  Journal of Urology, December 1995;154(6):2050-2053.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Journal of
Urology, "PURPOSE:  Our aim was to prove if alternating chemotherapeutic and
immunotherapeutic instillations improved efficacy and reduced toxicity in
patients with carcinoma in situ of the bladder.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Of 68
carcinoma in situ patients randomly treated with instillations 40 received
mitomycin C and 28 received mitomycin C and Pasteur bacillus Calmette-Guerin
(BCG) in alternating courses.  Mean follow-up was 33 months.  RESULTS:  The
complete response rates with mitomycin C and mitomycin C/BCG were 45% and 71%
at 3 months, 59% and 82% at 12 months, and 47% and 74% at 24 months,
respectively (P=0.041).  The disease-free interval showed the superiority of
alternating therapy (P=0.043).  Recurrence rates during the instillation
period were 1.834 with mitomycin C and 0.922 with mitomycin C/BCG (P=0.013).
No remarkable side effects developed in the alternating group.  CONCLUSIONS:
Therapy of carcinoma in situ with alternating mitomycin C and BCG is more
effective than mitomycin C alone.  Compared to BCG monotherapy only few side
effects occur."  The corresponding author for this study is:  E Rintala,
Helsinki Univ, Cent Hosp, Dept Urol, Helsinki, Finland.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  Williams & Wilkins, 351
West Camden St, Baltimore, MD 21201-2436.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Bladder Cancer
Pansadoro, V.; Emiliozzi, P.; Defidio, L.; Donadio, D.; Florio, A.; Maurelli,
S.; Lauretti, S.; Sternberg, C.N.  "Bacillus Calmette-Guerin in the Treatment
of Stage T1 Grade 3 Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder:  Long-Term

Results."  Journal of Urology, December 1995;154(6):2054-2058.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Journal of
Urology, "PURPOSE:  We performed a retrospective long-term study to evaluate
the results of immunotherapy in the treatment of high grade superficial
bladder tumors.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Between 1981 and 1993, 593 patients
with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder underwent
transurethral resection.  Of 64 patients with stage T1 grade 3 disease 50
received intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin after transurethral resection
of all visible tumor.  RESULTS:  At a median follow-up of 42 months (range 12
to 112) 36 patients (72%) are disease-free and have not required further
treatment.  Superficial recurrence was noted in 8 patients (16%).  Disease
progressed in 6 patients (12%), including 5 with locally invasive and 1 with
metastatic disease.  Cystectomy was performed for progression in 4 patients
and for recurrent stage T1 grade 3 disease in 1.  There was 1 disease related
death (2%).  The overall survival rate is 94%.  CONCLUSIONS:  Intravesical
bacillus Calmette-Guerin appears to be the most effective conservative
treatment for patients with stage T1 grade 3 bladder cancer."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  V Pansadoro, Cto Hosp, Dept Urol,
Rome, Italy.  For subscription information for this journal contact the
publisher:  Williams & Wilkins, 351 West Camden St, Baltimore, MD 21201-2436.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Gene Therapy (Hepatocellular)
Kaneko, S.; Hallenbeck, P.; Kotani, T.; Nakabayashi, H.; Mcgarrity, G.;
Tamaoki, T.; Anderson, W.F.; Chiang, Y.L.  "Adenovirus-Mediated Gene Therapy
of Hepatocellular Carcinoma using Cancer Specific Gene Expression."  Cancer

Research, November 15, 1995;55(22):5283-5287.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Cancer Research,
"Most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma have an elevated
alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level.  This high level of AFP expression is
transcriptionally controlled by the 5'-flanking sequence of the AFP gene.
Using the 5'-flanking sequence as a promoter for the herpes simplex virus
thymidine kinase (RSV-TK) gene in an adenoviral vector (Av1AFPTK1), the
therapeutic efficacy of adenovirus-mediated HSV-TK gene transduction, followed
by ganciclovir (GCV) administration, was studied in tumors in athymic nude
mice.  Av1AFPTK1 transduction of two cell lines demonstrated HSV-TK enzyme
activity only in the AFP-producing cells (HuH7) and not in the AFP
nonproducing cells (SR-Hep-l).  As expected, only transduced HuH7 cells were
killed by GCV treatment.  Transduction by an adenoviral vector harboring a
Rous sarcoma virus promoter and HSV-TK gene (Av1TK1) showed enzymatic activity
and GCV killing in both cell lines.  All HuH7 tumors that were transduced with
either Av1AFPTK1 or Av1TK1 completely regressed after GCV treatment.  On the
other hand, there was complete regression of SK-Hep-l tumors only when treated
with Av1TK1 and GCV and not when treated with Av1AFPTK1 and GCV.  Thus,
cell-specific killing was achieved by adenoviral vector containing AFP
promoter for the HSV-TR gene and GCV treatment."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  S Kaneko, Kanazawa Univ, Dept Internal Med 1, Takara Machi
13-1, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920, Japan.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Amer Assoc Cancer Research, Public Ledger
Bldg, Suite 816,, 150 S.  Independence, Philadelphia, PA 19106.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Gene Therapy (Prostate)
Eastham, J.A.; Hall, S.J.; Sehgal, I.; Wang, J.X.; Timme, T.L.; Yang, G.;
Connellcrowley, L.; Elledge, S.J.; Zhang, W.W.; Harper, J.W.; Thompson, T.C.
"In Vivo Gene Therapy with p53 or p21 Adenovirus for Prostate Cancer."  Cancer

Research, November 15, 1995;55(22):5151-5155.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Cancer Research,
"We introduced the gene for wild-type human p53 or p21, a critical downstream
mediator of p53-induced growth suppression, into a p53-deficient mouse
prostate cancer cell Line using a recombinant adenoviral vector (Ad5CMV-p53 or
Ad5CMV-p21).  Elevated levels of endogenous mouse p21 mRNA provided evidence
for the functional activity of virally transduced p53.  Functional activity of
viral-transduced p21 was demonstrated through immunoprecipitation of cellular
protein extracts, which showed that the viral-transduced p21 associates with
cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and was sufficient to down-regulate the activity of
the cyclin-dependent kinase by approximately 65%.  In vitro growth assays
revealed significantly higher growth suppression after Ad5CMV-p21 infection
compared to Ad5CMV-p53.  In vivo studies in syngeneic male mice with
established s.c.  prostate tumors demonstrated that the rate of growth and
final tumor volume were reduced to a much greater extent in mice that received
intratumor injection of Ad5CMV-p21 compared to Ad5CMV-p53.  In addition, the
survival of host animals bearing tumors that were infected with Ad5CMV-p21,
but not Ad5CMV-p53, was significantly extended.  These data suggest that
Ad5CMV-p21 may be effective as a therapeutic agent for prostate cancer."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  TC Thompson, 6560 Fannin, Suite 1004,
Houston, TX 77030 USA.  For subscription information for this journal contact
the publisher:  Amer Assoc Cancer Research, Public Ledger Bldg, Suite 816,,
150 S.  Independence, Philadelphia, PA 19106.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Cancer Vaccines
Duda, R.B.; Yang, H.; Dooley, D.D.; Abujawdeh, G.  "Recombinant BCG Therapy
Suppresses Melanoma Tumor Growth."  Annals of Surgical Oncology, November
1995;2(6):542-549.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Annals of
Surgical Oncology, "BACKGROUND:  Melanoma is the fastest rising cancer in the
United States.  Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) has been genetically engineered
to actively express and secrete the cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2).  Both BCG
and IL-2 have known potent antitumor and immunomodulatory properties.
METHODS:  This recombinant BCG (rBCG 3A) has been tested as an intratumoral
injection and a vaccine therapy in conjunction with irradiated tumor cells
against melanoma in the murine B16 melanoma model.  RESULTS:  The transfection
process did not adversely alter the function of the wild-type (WT) BCG.  rBCG
3A and WT BCG are equally effective intratumoral and vaccine therapies against
melanoma when compared with normal saline control groups.  Tumor burdens were
significantly smaller (P less than or equal to 0.01 and 0.05) for the
treatment groups for both intratumoral and vaccine administration of therapy.
Immunization with rBCG 3A and WT BCG 14 days before a B16 challenge resulted
in an similar to 45% smaller tumor burden when compared with controls.
CONCLUSIONS:  Novel therapies based on the immunogenic properties of melanoma
combined with molecular technologies may offer promise for an effective and
safe treatment of melanoma."  The corresponding author for this study is:  RB
Duda, Harvard Univ, Beth Israel Hosp, Sch Med, Div Surg Oncol, 330 Brookline
Ave, Boston, MA 02215 USA.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Raven Press, 227 East Washington Sq, Philadelphia, PA
19106.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Gene Therapy Overview
Hanania, E.G.; Kavanagh, J.; Hortobagyi, G.; Giles, R.E.; Champlin, R.;
Deisseroth, A.B.  "Recent Advances in the Application of Gene Therapy to Human
Disease."  American Journal of Medicine, November 1995;99(5):537-552.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Medicine, "PURPOSE:  To review the recent advances in the application of
genetic modification strategies to the therapy of human diseases for which a
molecular defect is known.  METHODS:  A computerized data bank search, the
minutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Recombinant DNA Advisory
Committee published in the Federal Record, and reports of human clinical
trials were used as data sources for this review.  Clinical trials included in
this review were published in the literature or approved by the NIH
Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee.  STUDY SELECTION:  Evaluations of the
efficacy of genetic modification strategies in clinical trials in human and in
animal models are summarized.  The design and outcome of the genetic
modification strategies employed are reviewed for 16 marking trials, 16 gene
replacement trials for molecular deficiency diseases, 3 chemoprotection and 4
chemotherapy sensitization trials, 11 cancer vaccine trials, 2 antisense
oligonucleotide trials, and 3 molecular immunotherapy trials.  DATA SYNTHESIS:
The marking trials have shown that residual leukemia cells in the infused
autologous marrow can contribute to relapse following autologous bone marrow
transplants.  The use of genetic modification for the replacement of missing
or deficient genes in severe combined immunodeficiency, familial
hypercholesterolemia, and cystic fibrosis has been associated with encouraging
results so far.  Clinical genetic therapy trials involving cancer vaccines,
antisense oligonucleotides, adoptive immunotherapy with genetically modified T
cells, delivery vectors containing interleukin-1 receptor inhibitor for
arthritis, replacement strategies for storage diseases, and genetic
suppression of human immunodeficiency viral replication are just commencing.
CONCLUSIONS:  The clinical application of genetic modification techniques has
thus far been successful in the beginning phases of this field.  These early
results suggest that continuation of gene therapy trials designed to correct
the molecular changes that lead to disease states in humans is warranted.
Evaluation of such clinical trials in the future may be based on the analysis
of assays for short-term surrogate endpoints, as well as on the therapeutic
outcomes of the trial, such as survival or remission."  The corresponding
author for this study is:  AB Deisseroth, Yale Univ, Sch Med, Med Oncol Sect,
333 Cedar St, New Haven, CT 06520 USA.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Cahners-Denver Publishing Co, 8773 S Ridgeline
Blvd, Highlands Ranch, CO 80126-2329.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Monoclonal Antibodies
Desrues, B.; Lena, H.; Brichory, F.; Ramee, M.P.; Toujas, L.; Delaval, P.;
Dazord, L.  "Monoclonal Antibody Po66 Uptake by Human Lung Tumours Implanted
in Nude Mice:  Effect of Co-Administration with Doxorubicin."  British Journal

of Cancer, November 1995;72(5):1076-1082.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in British Journal
of Cancer, "The efficacy of radioimmunotherapy of tumours with radiolabelled
monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) depends on the amount of antibody taken up by the
tumour and on its intratumoral distribution.  In the case of MAbs directed
against intracellular antigens, increasing the permeability of the cytoplasmic
membrane may augment the bioavailability of the antigen for the antibody.
This raises the question whether the induction of tumour necrosis by
chemotherapy can enhance the tumour uptake of radiolabelled monoclonal
antibodies.  In this work, the effect of doxorubicin on the biodistribution of
Po66, an MAb directed against an intracellular antigen, was studied in nude
mice grafted with the human non-small-cell lung carcinoma cell line SK-MES-1.
After injection on day 0 of I-125-labelled Po66, tumour radioactivity
increased up to days 3-5, and then remained unchanged to day 14.  The combined
administration of I-125-labelled Po66 with 8 mg kg(-1) doxorubicin, in two
doses separated by 7 days, doubled the radioactivity retained by the tumour.
Histological and historadiographic analysis showed, however, that the drug
induced cellular damage.  In the absence of doxorubicin, the accumulation of
Po66 was restricted to some necrotic areas, whereas with doxorubicin the
necrosis was more extensive and the antibody more evenly distributed.  These
results suggest that chemotherapy and immunoradiotherapy combined would
enhance tumour uptake of radioisotope and promote more homogenous distribution
of the radiolabelled MAb.  This would promote eradication of the remaining
drug-resistant cells in tumours."  The corresponding author for this study is:
B Desrues, Ctr Hosp Reg & Univ, Serv Pneumol, F-35033 Rennes, France.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Stockton
Press, Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hants, England RG21 2XS.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
CANCER BIOTECHNOLOGY WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

MEETINGS REPORT
*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY


January 15-17, 1996, Paris, France, "Cancer, AIDS and Quality of Life:  The
Heart of the Matter."  Information:  Michele Liegeon, AIRMEC, 2 boulevard du
Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France, Phone 33-1-45-66-91-15, Fax
33-1-45-66-50-72.

January 15-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "BioEast '96."  Information:
BioConferences International, 4405 E.  West Highway, Ste.  501, Bethesda, MD
20814, Phone 301-652-3072, Fax 301-652-4951.

January 15-21, 1996, Keystone, CO, "Blood Stem Cell and Bone Marrow
Transplants."  Information:  Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630, Silverthorne, CO
80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

January 17-20, 1996, Lausanne, Switzerland, "Cancer and the Cell Cycle - A
Joint Meeting with the Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research."
Information:  AACR, 150 Public Ledger Bldg., 150 South Independence Mall West,
Ste.  816, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

January 26-27, 1996, Palmetto, FL, "7th Annual:  Until There Is a Cure."
Information:  AIDS Manasota, Inc.  Conference, 2080 Ringling Blvd., Suite 302,
Sarasota, FL 34237-7030, Phone 941-954-6011, Fax 941-951-1721.

January 28-31, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "International Conference:  Chronic
Myelocytic Leukemia Biology and Treatment."  Information:  Prof.  E.A.
Rachmilewitz, Hematology Department, Hadassah Hospital, POB 12000, Jerusalem,
Israel 91120, Fax 972-2-423-067.

* January 28 - February 1, 1996, Washington, DC, "3rd National Conference on
Human Retroviruses and Related Infections."  Information:  Infectious Disease
Society of America 703-299-0200.

February 4-10, 1996, Taos, NM, "Gene Therapy for Hematopoietic Stem Cells in
Genetic Disease and Cancer."  Information:  Keystone Symposia, Drawer 1630,
Silverthorne, CO 80498, Phone 303-262-1230, Fax 303-262-1525.

February 6-9, 1996, Paris, France, "6th International Congress on Anti-Cancer
Treatment."  Information:  Professor David Khayat, SOMPS - Hopital de la
Pitie-Salpetriere, 47, Bd de l'Hopital, 75651 Paris CEDEX 13 France.

February 13-16, 1996, Auckland, New Zealand, "From Genes to Clinical Trials.
Twenty-fifth Jubilee Meeting of the New Zealand Society for Oncology."
Information:  Prof.  Bruce Baguley, Cancer Society Research Laboratory, The
University of Auckland School of Medicine, Private Bag 92019, Auckland, New
Zealand, Phone 64-9-373-7599, Ext.  6142, Fax 64-9-373-7502.

February 15-16, 1996, Coronado, CA, "Oligonucleotide- & Gene Therapy-Based
Antisense Therapeutics."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

February 16-18, 1996, New York, NY, "Second Annual CME Course for the
Management of the HIV Infected Patient:  A Practical Approach for the Primary
Care Practitioner."  Information:  Center for Bio-Medical Communication, Inc.,
80 West Madison Avenue, Dumont, NJ 07628, Phone 201-385-8080, Fax
201-385-5650.

February 19-22, 1996, La Jolla, CA, "Clinical Hematology and Oncology 1996
Conference."  Information:  Department of Academic Affairs, Box 403C, Scripps
Clinic and Research Foundation, 10666 North Torrey Pines Rd., La Jolla, CA
92037, Phone 619-554-8556, Fax 619-554-6310.

February 19-25, 1996, Keystone, CO, "Cancer Susceptibility Genes and Molecular
Carcinogenesis."  Information:  AACR, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150
South Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA 19106, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax
215-440-9313.

* February 26-27, 1996, Rockville, MD, "IBC's 3rd Annual Conference on
Vaccines:  New Advances in Technologies and Applications."  Information:  IBC
USA Conferences, Inc., 225 Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone
508-481-6400.

March 1-5, 1996, Panama City Beach, FL, "Proteases and Protease Inhibitors in
Cancer."  Information:  American Association for Cancer Research, Public
Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA
19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

March 3-7, 1996, Melbourne, Australia, "World Conference for Cancer
Organisations."  Information:  Conference Secretariat, C/-ICMS Pty Ltd., World
Conference for Cancer Organisations, 84 Queensbridge St., South Melbourne, Vic
3205, Australia.

March 5-7, 1996, Shanghai, China, "1996 Shanghai International Symposium on
Liver Cancer and Hepatitis."  Information:  Zhao-You Tang, M.D., Chairman,
1996 Shanghai International Symposium on Liver Cancer and Hepatitis, c/o Liver
Cancer Institute, Shanghai Medical University, 136 Yi Xue Yuan Rd., Shanghai
200032, P.R.  China, Phone and Fax 86-21-403-7181.

March 10-16, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "TNF and Related Cytokines:  Clinical
Utility and Biology of Action."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037
Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax
617-630-1395.

March 11-13, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Introduction to Tissue Culture Techniques."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

March 12-15, 1996, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, "9th National Cancer Institute
- European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Symposium on New
Drugs in Cancer Therapy."  Information:  Technical Resources, International,
3202 Tower Oaks Blvd., Rockville, MD 20852, Phone 800-883-6338, Fax
301-770-6343.

March 18-22, 1996, Buffalo, NY, "Recombinant DNA Methodology."  Information:
Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.  130, Columbia,
MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

March 20-22, 1996, Lake Buena Vista, FL, "97th Annual Meeting:  American
Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics."  Information:  Elaine
Galasso, Executive Director, ASCPT, 1718 Gallagher Rd., Norristown, PA
19401-2800, Phone 610-825-3838, Fax 610-834-8652

April 1-2, 1996, Boston, MA, "The Third Annual Novel Cancer Strategies:
Angiogenesis Antagonists."  Information:  Cambridge Healthtech Institute, 1037
Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1300, Fax
617-630-1325.

April 9-12, 1996, Rome, Italy, "Seventh International Congress on Hyperthermic
Oncology."  Information:  Prof.  C.  Franconi, Chairman, VII ICHO, Internal
Medicine Dept., Tor Vergata University of Rome, Via O.  Raimondo, 00173 Rome,
Italy, Phone 39-6-723-5170, Fax 39-6-725-92821.

April 14-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology - Annual Meeting."  Information:  Experimental Biology
1996, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3998, Phone 301-530-7010.

April 15-19, 1996, Columbia, MD, "RNA Isolation and Gene Expression."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

April 17-19, 1996, Vancouver, Canada, "The Fourth International Nature
Genetics Conference."  Information:  Diana Berger, Conference Services
Manager, Nature America, Inc., 345 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010-1707,
Phone 212-726-9281, Fax 212-696-9594.

April 20-24, 1996, Washington, DC, "87th Annual Meeting:  American Association
for Cancer Research."  Information:  Information:  AACR, 150 Public Ledger
Bldg.  & Chestnut St., Ste.  816, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone
215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

May 2-4, 1996, Leipzig, Germany, "BICON 6th Biennial Conference on
Antiinfective Agents and Chemotherapy."  Information:  6th BICON Congress
Secretariat, P.O.  Box 83 03 58, D-81703 Munich, Germany.

May 2-5, 1996, Philadelphia, PA, "21st Annual Oncology Nursing Society
Congress Meeting."  Information:  ONC, 501 Holiday Dr., Pittsburgh, PA
15220-7373, Phone 412-921-7373, Fax 412-921-6565.

* May 3-6, 1996, Washington, DC, "Biomedicine '96:  Medical Research from
Bench to Bedside."  Information:  Editor-in-Chief, National Office 6900 Grove
Road, Thorofare, NJ 08086-9447, Phone 609-848-1000, Fax 609-848-5274.

May 6-10, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Recombinant DNA Methodology."  Information:
Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.  130, Columbia,
MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

May 6-12, 1996, Taos, NM, "Discovery and Development of Tumor Vaccines."
Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA
02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

May 9-15, 1996, Lake Tahoe, CA, "Immunology and Immunotherapy of Metastasis."
Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA
02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

May 13-17, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Polymerase Chain Reaction Methodology."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

May 19-21, 1996, Philadelphia, PA, "32nd Annual Meeting American Society of
Clinical Oncology."  Information:  ASCO, 435 North Michigan Ave., Ste.  1717,
Chicago, IL 60611-4067.

* May 19-23, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "95th American Society for Microbiology
General Meeting."  Information:  American Society for Microbiology, 1325
Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171, Phone 202-737-3600.

May 20-24, 1996, Columbia, MD, "cDNA Library Construction."  Information:
Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.  130, Columbia,
MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

* May 29 - June 1, 1996, Paris, France, "2nd Meeting of the European
Hematology Association."  Information:  Conference Secretariat, Imedex,
Bruistensingel 360, P.O.  Box 3283, 5203 DG's Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands,
Phone 31-73429285, Fax 31-73-414766.

June 2-6, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "American Association of
Immunologists/American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology/American
Association of Investigative Pathology."  Information:  Mr.  Raymond Palmer,
Exec.  Dir., AAI, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3994, Phone
301-530-7178, Fax 301-571-1816.

June 8-12, 1996, Columbia River Gorge, WA, "Inducible Genomic Responses."
Information:  American Association for Cancer Research, Public Ledger Bldg.,
Ste.  816, 150 S.  Indepndence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone
215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

* June 29 - July 4, 1996, Sydney, Australia, "20th International congress of
Chemotherapy."  Information:  ICMS Pty Ltd., 84 Queensbridge Street,
Southbank, Victoria, Australia 3006, Phone 613 9682 0244, Fax 613 9682 0288.

August 11-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "10th International Congress of
Virology."  Information:  Secretariat, 10th Intl.  Cong.  of Virology, P.O.
Box 50006, Tel Aviv 61500, Israel, Phone 972-3-514-0000, Fax
972-3-5175674/514-0077, Telex 341171 KENS IL, E-mail:
virology@kenes.ccmail.compuserve.com.  (Omit final period from e-mail
address.)

August 17-22, 1996, Chicago, IL, "8th World Congress on Pain."  Information:
IASP Secretariat, 909 NE 43rd St., Ste.  306, Seattle, WA 98105, Phone
206-547-6409, Fax 206-547-1703.

* August 25-29, 1996, Singapore, "26th Congress of the International Society
of Haematology."  Information:  ISH 1996 Singapore, c/o CEMS Pte Ltd, 1
Maritime Square, #09-43 World Trade Centre, Singapore 0409, Phone 65-278-8666,
Fax 65-278-4077.

August 27-30, 1996, Nagoya, Japan, "14th International Scientific Meeting of
the International Epidemiological Association:  Global Health in a Changing
Environment."  Information:  14th ISM Secretariat, Dept.  of Preventive
Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku,
Nagoya 466, Japan, Phone 81-52-741-2111, ext.  2074, Fax 81-52-733-6729.

November 8-10, 1996, Phoenix, AZ, "Oncology Nursing Society 7th Annual Fall
Institute."  Information:  ONS, 501 Holiday Dr., Pittsburgh, PA 15220-2749,
Phone 412-921-7373, Fax 412-921-6565

November 18-22, 1996, Columbia, MD, "cDNA Library Construction."  Information:
Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.  130, Columbia,
MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

December 1-6, 1996, Chicago, IL, "82nd Scientific Assembly, Radiological
Association."  Information:  Radiological Society of North America, 2021
Spring Rd., Ste.  600, Oak Brook, IL 60521.

December 9-13, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Recombinant DNA Methodology."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

April 12-16, San Diego, CA, "88th Annual Meeting:  American Association for
Cancer Research."  Information:  American Association for Cancer Research,
Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia,
PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

April 30 - May 3, 1997, New Orleans, LA, "Oncology Nursing Society Congress
Meeting."  Information:  ONC, 501 Holiday Dr., Pittsburgh, PA 15220-7373,
Phone 412-921-7373.  Fax 412-921-6565.

October 2-6, 1996, San Diego, CA, "Novel Approaches in Blood and Marrow
Transplantation:  2nd Annual Meeting of the American Society for Blood and
Marrow Transplantation."  Information:  American Association for Cancer
Research, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West,
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

October 6-9, 1996, Budapest, Hungary, "Carcinogenesis from Environmental
Pollution:  Assessment of Human Risks and Strategies for Prevention (Joint
Meeting with International Agency for Research on Cancer).  Information:
American Association for Cancer Research, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150
S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300,
Fax 215-440-9313.

October 9-11, 1996, Castres, France, "Anticancer Targets and Strategies for
the Twenty-First Century."  Information:  Marian Cabailh, Conference
Secretariat, C.R.P.F., 17 avenue Jean Moulin, 81106 Castres Cedex, France,
Phone 33-63-74368, Fax 33-63-714299.

October 9-11, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Transfection of Eukaryotic Cells."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

* October 9-15, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "3rd International Conference on
Engineered Vaccines for Cancer and AIDS."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia,
1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax
617-630-1395.

* October 14-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "Fifth International Conference on
Human Antibodies and Hybridomas."  Information:  John Herriot, HAH '96
Conference, Meetings Management, The Chestnuts, 1st Floor, 18 East Street,
Farnham, Surrey GU9 7SD, UK, Phone +44 (0)1252 726066, Fax +44 (0)1252 723303.

October 19-23, 1996, Lake George, NY, "Programmed Cell Death."  Information:
American Association for Cancer Research, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150
S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300,
Fax 215-440-9313.

* October 21-25, 1996, Columbia, MD, "In Situ Hybridization Techniques."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

* October 28 - November 3, 1996, Lake Tahoe, CA, "Emergent Technologies for
the Treatment of Brain Tumors."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037
Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax
617-630-1395.

* November 11-15, 1996, Columbia, MD, "Polymerase Chain Reaction Methodology."
Information:  Workshop Coordinator, Exon-Intron, Inc., 9151 Rumsey Rd., Ste.
130, Columbia, MD 21045, Phone 800-407-6546, Fax 410-730-3983.

* November 16-20, 1996, San Diego, CA, "Disrupted Transcription Factors in
Cancer."  Information:  American Association for Cancer Research, Public
Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall West, Philadelphia, PA
19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

* June 29 - July 4, 1997, Sydney, Australia, "20th International Congress of
Chemotherapy."  Information:  ICMS Pty Ltd., 84 Queensbridge Street,
Southbank, Victoria, Australia 3006, Phone 613 9682 0244, Fax 613 9682 0288.

October 20-24, 1997, Orlando, FL, "American Society for Therapeutic Radiology
and Oncology."  Information:  American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and
Oncology, 1101 Market Street-14th Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19107-2990, Phone
215-574-3180.

November 30 - December 5, 1997, Chicago, IL, "83rd Scientific Assembly,
Radiological Association."  Information:  Radiological Society of North
America, 2021 Spring Rd., Ste.  600, Oak Brook, IL 60521.

* March 28-April 1, 1998, New Orleans, LA, "Annual Meeting, American
Association for Cancer Research."  Information:  American Association for
Cancer Research, Public Ledger Bldg., Ste.  816, 150 S.  Independence Mall
West, Philadelphia, PA 19106-3483, Phone 215-440-9300, Fax 215-440-9313.

* May 7-10, 1998, San Francisco, CA, "Oncology Nursing Society Congress
Meeting."  Information:  ONC, 501 Holiday Dr., Pittsburgh, PA 15220-7373,
Phone 412-921-7373.  Fax 412-921-6565.

* April 27-30, 1999, Atlanta, GA, "Oncology Nursing Society Congress Meeting."
Information:  ONC, 501 Holiday Dr., Pittsburgh, PA 15220-7373, Phone
412-921-7373.  Fax 412-921-6565.

* November 1-5, 1999, San Antonio, TX, "American Society for Therapeutic
Radiology and Oncology."  Information:  American Society for Therapeutic
Radiology and Oncology, 1101 Market Street-14th Floor, Philadelphia, PA
19107-2990, Phone 215-574-3180.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-8</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B021-313</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh53.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022316 text/html 121999
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:20:31 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:23 GMT
Content-length: 121809
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh53.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet <BR>
December 25, 1995 & January 1<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS REPORTS . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Animal Models&nbsp;Mouse Model Useful for Determining TB Pathology</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(569 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Blood Banking (Chagas Disease)&nbsp;Donors with T. cruzi Pose Threat to Public Health</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(455 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;"New" ACTG Moves Forward</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(654 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>Conference Coverage (ACTG)&nbsp;Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(384 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Disease Markers&nbsp;Increased Soluble CD14 Useful Marker in TB Patients</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(305 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>Drug Resistance&nbsp;When the Antibiotic Cupboard Is Bare</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(716 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Emerging Diseases&nbsp;Could Rabies-Like Diseases Enter the U.S.?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1818 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Encephalitis&nbsp;Microsphere Formulation Improves Encephalitis Vaccine</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(789 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Epidemiology (HCV)&nbsp;500,000 in France Infected with HCV</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(308 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>Epidemiology (HIV)&nbsp;WHO Reports 18.5 Million Have HIV</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(432 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Infection Control&nbsp;TB and AIDS Programs - Natural Partners or Not?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(781 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Influenza&nbsp;Killer Flu Expected</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(483 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>Occupational Exposure (TB)&nbsp;Most TB in New York HCWs Due to Recent Infections </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(588 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Respiratory Syncytial Virus&nbsp;Human RSV Succumbs to Bioengineering Techniques</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(519 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>Transmission (TB)&nbsp;Primary School Teacher in Amsterdam Infects 19 Students</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(386 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>Xenotransplantation&nbsp;Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>RESEARCH FROM CONFERENCES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>Diagnostics&nbsp;"Accuracy of Chest Radiograph Interpretation in the Diagnosis of Pneumocystis&nbsp;carinii Pneumonia, Bacterial Pneumonia, and Pulmonary Tuberculosis in HIV&nbsp;Positive Patients."  P.M.  Boiselle, I.  Tocino, R.J.  Hooley, A.S.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(261 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>Diagnostics (TB)&nbsp;"Effect of HIV Status on Chest CT Findings In Patients with Tuberculosis."&nbsp;L.B.  Haramati, E.R.  Jenny-Avital and D.D.  Alterman.  Bronx, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(105 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>Diagnostics (TB)&nbsp;"Sites of Tuberculous Involvement in AIDS Patients:  Correlation with Gallium&nbsp;Scans."  H.M.  Abdel-Dayem, S.Y.  Naddaf, B.  Mina, M.S.  Aziz, L.  DiFabrizio&nbsp;and J.S.  Kempf et al.  New York, New York.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(162 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>Histopathology (HCV)&nbsp;"Clinical and Histological Features in Anti-HCV RIBA Indeterminate Patients&nbsp;with Normal ALT."  M.  Diago, P.  Carbonell, C.  Gonzalez, R.  Zapater, R.&nbsp;Cors, P.  Rivera, C.  Tuset and J.  Villalba.  Hepatology and Immunology</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(323 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Immunology (TB)&nbsp;"Regulation of the Human Cellular Immune Response in Tuberculosis."  J.J.&nbsp;Ellner.  Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(367 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>Infection Control (TB)&nbsp;"Behavioral Factors in Tuberculosis Control."  E.  Sumartojo.  Division of&nbsp;Tuberculosis Elimination, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,&nbsp;Atlanta, Georgia.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(368 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>Pathogenesis (HCV)&nbsp;"Histological Progression of Chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Infection in&nbsp;Untreated Asymptomatic Blood Donors."  M.M.  Ahmed, E.  Elias, K.  O'Donnell,&nbsp;J.  Shaw, F.  Kennedy, R.F.  Harrison, F.A.  Ala, H.  Atrah and D.J.  Mutimer.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(278 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>JOURNAL ARTICLE SUMMARIES . . . DECEMBER 25, 1995 & JANUARY 1, 1996</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>Callitrichid Hepatitis&nbsp;Montali, R.J.; Connolly, B.M.; Armstrong, D.L.; Scanga, C.A.; Holmes, K.V.&nbsp;"Pathology and Immunohistochemistry of Callitrichid Hepatitis, an Emerging&nbsp;Disease of Captive New World Primates Caused by Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(258 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>Drug Resistance&nbsp;Goldstein, F.W.; Pean, Y.; Gertner, J.; Scaviner, P.; Deshayeslartigue, L.;&nbsp;Moussion, J.; Moussion, J.; Corteel, P.; Grelat, S.; Sarzier, J.M.;&nbsp;Lepargneur, J.P.; Masson, P.; Picard, P.; Kunzelmann, J.M.; Massoubre, B.;</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(222 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>Nosocomial (Catheter Colonization)&nbsp;Raad, I.; Darouiche, R.; Hachem, R.; Sacilowski, M.; Bodey, G.P.  "Antibiotics&nbsp;and Prevention of Microbial Colonization of Catheters."  Antimicrobial Agents&nbsp;and Chemotherapy, November 1995;39(11):2397-2400.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(286 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>Nosocomial (Infectious Diarrhea)&nbsp;Porco, F.V.; Visconte, E.B.  "Pseudomonas aeruginosa as a Cause of Infectious&nbsp;Diarrhea Successfully Treated with Oral Ciprofloxacin."  Annals of&nbsp;Pharmacotherapy, November 1995;29(11):1122-1123.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(328 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><LI>Nosocomial (Pneumonia)&nbsp;Djedaini, K.; Billiard, M.; Mier, L.; Lebourdelles, G.; Brun, P.; Markowicz,&nbsp;P.; Estagnasie, P.; Coste, F.; Boussougant, Y.; Dreyfuss, D.  "Changing Heat&nbsp;and Moisture Exchangers Every 48 Hours Rather Than 24 Hours Does Not Affect</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(305 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>Pediatrics (HBV)&nbsp;Hurie, M.B.; Saari, T.N.; Proctor, M.E.; Davis, J.P.  "Hospitals' Responses to&nbsp;Universal Infant Hepatitis B Vaccination Recommendations."  Pediatrics,&nbsp;November 1995;96(5 Part 1):875-879.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(373 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>Pneumocystis carinii&nbsp;Horner, R.D.; Bennett, C.L.; Rodriguez, D.; Weinstein, R.A.; Kessler, H.A.;&nbsp;Dickinson, G.M.; Johnson, J.L.; Cohn, S.E.; George, W.L.; Gilman, S.C.;&nbsp;Shapiro, M.F.  "Relationship Between Procedures and Health Insurance for</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(344 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><LI>Varicella-Zoster Virus&nbsp;Perry, C.M.; Bryson, H.M.  "Oka/Merck Varicella Vaccine:  A Review of Its&nbsp;Immunogenicity and Protective Efficacy Against Varicella."  Clinical&nbsp;Immunotherapeutics, November 1995;4(5):396-416.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(450 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><LI>MEETINGS REPORT&nbsp;*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1530 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Animal Models
Mouse Model Useful for Determining TB Pathology


A murine study suggests that Mycobacterium tuberculosis is far more virulent
when given by the respiratory route than by the intravenous route.

Researcher Robert J.  North of New York's Trudeau Institute earlier reported
that intravenous inoculation of mice with M.  tuberculosis results in a slowly
progressive infection in the lungs, despite the acquisition of systemic host
immunity capable of resolving infection in the liver, spleen and kidneys.

"The present study was undertaken to determine whether the peculiar
susceptibility of the lungs to M.  tuberculosis infection is even more obvious
in mice infected via the respiratory route," North wrote ("M.  tuberculosis is
Strikingly More Virulent for Mice When Given via the Respiratory than via the
Intravenous Route," Journal of Infectious Diseases, December
1995;172:1550-1553).

North found that fewer M.  tuberculosis colony-forming units (cfu) given by
aerosol were substantially more virulent for mice than much larger numbers
inoculated intravenously, as shown by a faster rate of bacillary growth in the
lungs and much shorter survival of the host.

"Earlier death of mice infected by aerosol was associated with faster
development of lung pathology, even though the number of M.  tuberculosis
given intravenously resulted in the same number of bacilli initially
implanting in the lungs as the number given by aerosol," North wrote.  "Mice
depleted of CD4 T cells died of infection much sooner than immunocompetent
mice but at about the same time after being infected via either route."

North noted that mice infected by aerosol, in contrast with those given M.
tuberculosis intravenously were incapable of resolving infection in their
livers, indicating that they generated and expressed a lower level of systemic
immunity.

"This interpretation is in keeping with the finding that mice depleted of CD4
T cells died at about the same time after infection was initiated via either
route and much earlier than immunocompetent controls," North wrote.  "In
addition, the survival time of mice infected via the respiratory route was
greatly extended if they were also infected intravenously with a larger number
of M.  tuberculosis.  Thus, a larger number of M.  tuberculosis cfu given
intravenously induces a higher level of systemic immunity than does a smaller
number given by aerosol.  This likely occurs because a larger intravenous
inoculum represents a larger quantity of replicating antigen capable of
engaging larger amounts of lymphoid tissue, including that in the spleen."

North concludes that bacilli that reach the lungs via the respiratory route
have a growth advantage over those that enter from blood during the initial
stage of infection.

"This may be because microorganisms that enter the lung via the respiratory
route are ingested by resident alveolar macrophages, whereas those that enter
from the blood need to be carried into the organ after being ingested by
monocytes, neutrophils, or pulmonary intravascular macrophages.

"Given that resident alveolar macrophages tend to be less capable than other
macrophages of killing microbial pathogens in general, it is possible that
this enables M.  tuberculosis to grow more rapidly during the initial stage of
infection.  Results of the present study support this concept in that M.
tuberculosis that entered the lung directly grew faster during the first 20
days of infection than did M.  tuberculosis that entered from blood."

The corresponding author for this study is Robert J.  North, Trudeau
Institute, Inc., P.O.  Box 59, Saranac Lake, New York 12983.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Blood Banking (Chagas Disease)
Donors with T. cruzi Pose Threat to Public Health


Trypanosoma cruzi (T.  cruzi), the cause of Chagas disease, may be a
considerable public health problem in parts of the United States.

Almost one in 5,700 blood donors in Miami, Florida and nearly one in 11,600 in
Los Angeles, California were seropositive for T.  cruzi antibodies in a
large-scale seroepidemiological study, said D.A.  Leiby, Transmissible
Diseases Department, American Red Cross, Rockville, Maryland, and colleagues
("Seroprevalence of Trypanosoma Cruzi-Antibodies in a Subpopulation of
American Red Cross Blood Donors," abstract 387, American Journal of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene, 1995;53(2):215).

"Despite the absence of demonstrated T.  cruzi transmission by transfusion,
the finding of seroreactive donors suggests that a significant public health
problem may exist," Leiby et al.  wrote in their presentation abstract.  They
presented their findings at the 44th Annual Meeting of the American Society of
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, San Antonio, Texas, November 17-21, 1995.

The study was performed with the Southern California and the South Florida
Regions of the American Red Cross and Abbott Laboratories.

All volunteer blood donors in the Los Angeles and Miami Red Cross blood
centers were asked a question about their place of birth or amount of time
spent in regions endemic for T.  cruzi.  Those donors who answered "yes" and a
control group were tested for the presence of T.  cruzi antibodies by EIA
(manufactured by Abbott Laboratories).

The researchers confirmed by RIPA those samples that were repeatedly reactive
by EIA.  They then entered into case-control and look-back investigations
those donors who were confirmed T.  cruzi seroreactive.

Of the donors questioned about risk, 7.4 percent (14,480/196,832) in Los
Angeles and 11 percent (1,868/17,043) in Miami responded yes.  Of these who
answered affirmatively, 20 were confirmed by RIPA (17 donors in Los Angeles;
three in Miami).  Among these 20 individuals, the risk factor they all shared
was birth in and extended residence in a country endemic for T.  cruzi.

A look-back investigation of eight patients who previously had received blood
from the infected donors showed that none of the blood recipients had
transfusion-transmitted T.  cruzi.

While none of the blood recipients in this particular study had
transfusion-transmitted T.  cruzi infection, there are documented reports of
three cases of transfusion-transmitted Chagas disease in the United States and
one case in Canada (according to a report by Ira A.  Schulman, M.D., Director
of Transfusion Medicine, LA County/USC Medical Center, delivered at the Blood
Safety & Screening Conference, October 23-25, 1995, Washington, D.C.).

Within the past 25 years, millions of immigrants have come to the United
States from countries where T.  cruzi is endemic.

Since 1991, an estimated 100,000 individuals infected with T.  cruzi reside in
North America.

 - by Cathy Clark




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
"New" ACTG Moves Forward


Can the main clinical trials group in the U.S.  shed its image as a dinosaur
too large and slow-moving to respond to new developments in AIDS therapies?

According to the chair of the group's Adult Executive Committee - University
of Colorado researcher Robert "Chip" Schooley - recent reorganization has
accomplished this objective.  Schooley made his remarks during the Twentieth
AIDS Clinical Trials Group Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington,
D.C.

The AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) is the arm of the U.S.  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Division of AIDS (DAIDS)
responsible for testing new treatments for HIV disease and its complications.

But the group - particularly the division responsible for testing drugs in
adults - has been severely criticized for lacking central control and for
moving far too slowly to provide answers to pressing questions about AIDS
therapies.

DAIDS recently completed a top-to-bottom evaluation and reorganization of the
ACTG.  In a plenary address to the group's first general meeting since the
changes took effect, Schooley acknowledged that many of the criticisms were
valid, but also stressed the group's many achievements.

"We've been through a lot of self and external evaluation," Schooley said.
"But there are a lot of things right with this organization.  This is the
preeminent clinical organization in the world.  We have put together a
tremendous organization to deal with a disease we all are tired of."

Schooley noted that four years ago only one drug had been approved for the
treatment of primary HIV infection and that today, largely due to ACTG
efforts, there are five such drugs with a sixth on the way.

"This organization will play a major role in understanding how these drugs
work," he said.  "We have a tremendous opportunity to move along quickly."

Schooley noted that recent ACTG studies have defined a role for combination
therapy with the nucleoside analog didanosine (ddI) and for the use of the new
protease inhibitor saquinavir.

He promised that the ACTG would make increased use of new laboratory findings
"to tell us what we need to do."

The "new" ACTG will collaborate more closely with DAIDS, Schooley said.  But
most importantly, the ACTG will streamline and simplify the process by which
it generates clinical trial protocols.

"One of the things we were appropriately criticized for was behaving like
civil servants," Schooley said, referring to previous bureaucratic processes
that prevented the rapid testing of new treatments in a clinical setting.

The organization of the ACTG has been streamlined so that the adult section
has only three committees making research decisions.  These three Research
Agenda Committees (RACs) are the HIV Disease RAC, the Immunology RAC, and the
Opportunistic Disease RAC.  Committees that were once separate RACs - the
Pharmacology Committee, the Women's Health Committee, and the Patient Care
Committee - will now be established as standing resource committees within
each of the three main RACs.

There will be two major changes in how the ACTG functions:  there will be
centralized control of both resources and laboratories.

Resources will now be controlled directly by those planning and executing the
ACTG scientific agenda via a Scientific Agenda Steering Committee comprised of
the various committee chairs.

Laboratories previously operated independently of the research committees,
receiving their funds directly from DAIDS.

"Now scientific committees will directly control the labs," Schooley said.  "I
think this will work very well."

But the executive committee chair warned that the ACTG would continue to
change.

"Four years from now this will be a very different organization than now," he
said.  "The changes have been good, they have been enabling."

He called for the active participation of each investigator.

"Two thousand people thinking will get more done than just a few executive
committee members," Schooley said.

 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Conference Coverage (ACTG)
Patient Recruitment and Retention a Problem for ACTG


Many institutions conducting AIDS clinical trials have been unable to find and
keep study participants.

A study of 28 institutions participating in U.S.  government-sponsored
clinical trials showed that 18 of the sites (64 percent) failed to meet their
patient accrual goals.

The study, conducted by Washington University researcher Michael Klebert and
colleagues, was presented at the Twentieth AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG)
Meeting, held December 2-6, 1995, in Washington, D.C.  The ACTG Patient Care
Committee, a resource committee of the ACTG executive committee, performed the
study.

"Adequate recruitment and retention are essential in conducting successful
clinical trials," Klebert said.

Of 35 participating ACTG sites queried anonymously, 28 participated in the
study.  Except that they tended to be located on the east coast,
nonparticipating sites were not significantly different in terms of size or
patient demographics from participating institutions.

Surprisingly, the study found that the number of recruitment strategies used
by a study site was not related to meeting recruitment and retention goals.

Strategies positively correlated with successful patient recruitment and
retention were provision of child care, education of patients, provision of
peer advocates for patients, and payment via cash or vouchers.  Provision of
support groups was negatively correlated with success.

More than half of the sites identified study design as a barrier to
recruitment.  Nearly 40 percent of the sites said that barriers to successful
recruitment were lack of outreach and cultural sensitivity.

The sites with the worst recruitment/retention problems tended not to combine
primary care with study-protocol visits.  But high proportions of minority
patients or high proportions of patients using intravenous drugs was not
associated with poor recruitment or retention.

The major barriers to patient retention were the use of unpopular or too many
drugs in the study, high frequency of visits, and the availability of
alternative drugs.

Based on the study findings, Klebert made several recommendations to improve
patient recruitment and retention:

*  Combine primary care and research visits.
*  Promote a strong relationship between the study nurse and patients.
*  Provide transportation to the study site.
*  Ask patients about factors that might interfere with their participation.
*  Design studies to address retention problems.
*  Study identified problem sites in detail.
 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Disease Markers
Increased Soluble CD14 Useful Marker in TB Patients


Increased levels of soluble CD14 are present in bronchoalveolar lavage
supernatant of pulmonary tuberculosis patients.

CD14 was first identified as a marker of cells derived from the
monocyte/macrophage lineage, although it was later found on other cells like
neutrophils and B lymphocytes.  The cell surface glycoprotein serves as a
cellular receptor for complexes of lipopolysaccharide with
lipopolysaccharide-binding protein.

Soluble CD14 (sCD14) is present in normal plasma and is found increased in
serum of patients with septicemia, polytrauma, and sarcoidosis.  In pulmonary
sarcoidosis, increased levels of soluble CD14 have been detected in serum and
in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.  In this study researcher Gerhard Hoheisel
and colleagues attempted to determine whether increased levels of CD14 are
also found in pulmonary tuberculosis ("Increased Soluble CD14 Levels in
Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid in Primary TB," Chest, December
1995;108:1614-1616).

Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed in 12 patients with active but untreated
pulmonary tuberculosis and 12 healthy persons.  Cytologic and immunologic
characteristics were determined.  sCD14 was measured by a sandwich
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

"The level of soluble CD14 in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis was
increased compared with controls (mean +/- 34.4 +/- ng/mL versus 11.5 +/- 22
ng/mL)," Hoheisel et al.  wrote.

"No correlation was found between sCD14 levels and bronchoalveolar lavage
supernatant of pulmonary tuberculosis patients.  We conclude that similar to
patients with sarcoidosis, increased BAL fluid levels of sCD14 are found in
patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis compared with controls.  Moreover,
this finding might signal a similar immunopathogenetic process contributing to
granuloma formation in both diseases.  Further studies of respective cell
surface markers and endogenous cytokine production seem necessary to determine
the significance and clinical relevance of this finding."

The corresponding author for this study is Gerhard Hoheisel, Department of
Pneumology, Ruhrlandklink, Tuschener Weg 40, D-45239.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Drug Resistance
When the Antibiotic Cupboard Is Bare


Antibiotic treatment options are very scarce when vancomycin does not work
against life-threatening Gram-positive infections, according to a scientific
presentation given at the midyear clinical meeting of the American Society of
Health-Systems Pharmacists (ASHP), held in Las Vegas, Nevada.

"For patients with life-threatening infections that are resistant to currently
available antibiotics, the situation can be as bad as it was 54 years ago when
the United States entered World War II, and there were no antibiotics on the
medical supply shelves," said Chuck Ballow, Pharm.  D., Associate Clinical
Professor at the State University of New York in Buffalo and Director of
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring at Millard Fillmore Hospital.  "The first
penicillins were so scarce they were delivered to field hospitals in
briefcases chained to couriers' wrists."

Over the past few years, Enterococcus faecium (E.  faecium) has developed the
ability to survive and grow in the presence of vancomycin.  This bacterium is
relatively benign in healthy patients, but in those with multiple underlying
diseases, who are often hospitalized for extended periods, this pathogen can
be deadly.

The U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) report an overall
incidence of 14 percent for vancomycin-resistant E.  faecium (VREF) in U.S.
intensive care units.

The death rate for VREF infections exceeds 30 percent in the studies reported
to date, compared to less than 17 percent in patients infected with less
resistant bacteria.

One reason for the increased incidence in resistance is that the Enterococcus
resides in the digestive tract, where resistant strains survive.  Ordinarily,
E.  faecium is relatively harmless, but, as patients are hospitalized due to
chronic illness or additional surgeries and they become increasingly
debilitated, even harmless bacteria overpower their diminishing host defenses.
E.  faecium has outsmarted vancomycin by changing the structure of its cell
wall through a complex interplay of genetic material that has become the most
complicated mechanism of resistance observed to date.

Today, after the introduction of many bigger, better and broader spectrum
antibiotics and the administration of literally millions of doses, the war
against bacteria wages on.  On an increasing number of fronts, the bugs have
outsmarted the drugs.

Ballow said this has happened because of a lack of appreciation for the
incredible adaptability of bacteria and the availability of hundreds of
antibiotic options.  Most pharmaceutical companies turned their attention to
developing new drugs for such diseases as heart attacks, cancer and diabetes,
instead of focusing on antibiotics.

In addition, many infectious disease experts felt confident that the
life-threatening Gram-positive resistance problems they faced in hospitals
could be handled by vancomycin, an antibiotic used for multiresistant
organisms unresponsive to the most sophisticated combinations of agents.

"Of course, this was naive in retrospect," Ballow told fellow pharmacists.
"Today we have a major problem, especially in intensive-care units."

The first agent in a class of antibiotics known as streptogramins may provide
hope against VREF.  Synercid (quinupristin-dalfopristin), an injectable
antibiotic shown to be effective against VREF, is in Phase III clinical trials
worldwide, and is currently available in the United States and Europe through
an emergency use program sponsored and administered by its developer,
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Inc.  (RPR), Collegeville, Pennsylvania.

Ballow reported on preliminary results of this program, which showed, overall,
70 percent of 95 evaluable patients treated with Synercid responded favorably
to the agent, meaning their symptoms improved or resolved.

Sixty-seven percent of patients with bacteremia (the most severe and
life-threatening infections) showed improvement and eradication of the
bacteria.

Ballow believes that these results are significant and promising because these
patients had serious underlying medical conditions, and each had been
previously and unsuccessfully treated with up to 11 antibiotics.

The new antibiotic is made of two individually active molecules, each of which
alone mildly halt reproduction of the bacteria, but combined have the power to
kill bacteria through inhibition of protein synthesis.

The agent has also been shown to be highly effective in laboratory tests
against the major Gram-positive strains of E.  faecium, Staphylococcus aureus,
pneumococci, and Streptococcus, including multidrug-resistant strains.

Some older drugs, which have been rarely used, if at all, for many years, may
also provide some hope, but additional studies are necessary to establish the
effectiveness of these agents in the treatment of VREF.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Emerging Diseases
Could Rabies-Like Diseases Enter the U.S.?


Rabies-like diseases could cause epidemics in the U.S.  if infected animals
are imported from endemic areas, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) researchers warn.

Although each year rabies kills 40,000 to 100,000 people worldwide, only one
or two deaths occur in the U.S.  due to widespread vaccination of domestic
animals, effective (but costly) post-exposure treatment (PET), and recent
programs to vaccinate wild animals.

This reduction in mortality is expensive:  the U.S.  rabies prevention program
costs an estimated $230 million to $1 billion in public and private expenses
per year, reported Charles E.  Rupprecht and colleagues of the CDC in a recent
publication ("The Ascension of Wildlife Rabies:  A Cause for Public Health
Concern or Intervention?"  Emerging Infectious Diseases, 1995;1(4):107ff).

But little-understood cousins of the rabies virus that exist outside the U.S.
are at best only marginally susceptible to rabies vaccine.  Either accidental
or intentional importation of infected animals to non-endemic areas raise the
animal reservoir - for most if not all of these viruses are from various
species of bats.

"Infections with non-rabies lyssaviruses have resulted in rabies vaccine
failures," Rupprecht et al.  noted.  "Such infections raise the specter of
potentially serious public health consequences if introduced and subsequently
established in susceptible bat populations."

Members of the Lyssavirus genus are a group of genetically related
negative-stranded RNA viruses.  The viruses that cause rabies are the
rhabdoviridae, found everywhere except for Australia, Antarctica, and some
isolated islands.  Other Lyssaviruses include:

* Mokola virus.  The reservoir for this virus is unknown, but Rupprecht et al.
suggest that it may be some type of insectivore or rodent as it was first
isolated in a species of shrew trapped in 1968 in the Mokola Forest outside
Ibadan, Nigeria; bushveld gerbils in Zimbabwe were found to be seropositive.
Cases have occurred in Nigeria, South Africa, Cameroon, Zimbabwe, Central
African Republic, and Ethiopia.  There have been two documented human
infections.  Rabies vaccine does not protect against this virus.

* Lagosbat virus.  The reservoir for this virus is thought to be fruit bats.
Only 10 cases have been identified thus far, three in domestic animals, in
Nigeria, South Africa, Zimbabwe, the Central African Republic, Senegal, and
Ethiopia.  No human deaths are documented.  Rabies virus offers only marginal
protection.

* Duvenhage virus.  The reservoir for this virus is not known, but is
suspected to be insect-eating bats.  Cases have occurred in South Africa,
Zimbabwe, and Senegal.  The virus is named after a man from Pretoria, South
Africa who in 1970 developed rabies-like encephalitis after being bitten by a
bat.  The patient died.  No cases in domestic animals have been identified.
Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

* European bat Lyssavirus 1 (EBLV1).  The reservoir for this virus is a
European insectivorous bat, most likely Eptesicus serotinus.  One human case
was documented in 1985, another was suspected in 1977.  Although the virus has
been found in more than 400 bats, no cases in domestic animals have been
identified.  Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

* European bat Lyssavirus 2 (EBLV2).  The reservoirs for this virus is again a
European insectivorous bat, most likely Mytotis dasycneme.  The virus was
first identified in a Swiss bat biologist working in Finland who died of a
rabies-like illness.  Of the five known cases, none have occurred in domestic
animals.  Rabies vaccine offers only marginal protection.

"The distances between Africa, Eurasia, Pacific Oceania, and the New World
mitigate against the dispersal, migration, and introduction of healthy bats
without human intervention," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.  "However, several
recent events illustrate the opportunity for the transoceanic transfer of
rabies-infected bats."

These events include:

* Research institutions.  There have been two close calls in research
facilities.  Canadian researchers in 1986 shipped a live big brown bat
(Eptesicus fuscus) to German associates.  The bat became ill was diagnosed
with rabies.  In 1994, a Massachusetts research team collected 12 wild big
brown bats and sent them to Danish researchers.  Six of the bats died of
rabies.

* Commercial enterprises.  A big brown bat was captured in Hawaii on a
container ship carrying automobiles from Michigan.  The bat was rabid.

* Legal or illegal importation of animals.  Improperly issued federal permits
in 1994 permitted import to the U.S.  of thousands of bats, mostly Egyptian
tomb bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus).  Normally, sales of imported bats or their
offspring are prohibited by federal law except by research institutions or
zoos where contact with the public is limited.  Such bats are normally
subjected to extended quarantine.  The CDC warns people who own imported bats
to prevent contact with humans.

"Although no reports of lyssaviruses isolated from Egyptian fruit bats exist,
active surveillance for such viruses has not been conducted," Rupprecht et al.
warned.  "These bats are relatively common and widespread throughout the area
that extends from Turkey and Cyprus to Pakistan, the Arabian peninsula, Egypt,
and most of sub-Saharan Africa.  Because they may roost by the thousands in a
wide variety of habitats, there is ample opportunity for interaction with
other Chiroptera, such as the widely distributed straw-colored (Eidolon
helvum) or epauletted (Epomophorus wahlbergi) fruit bats; both of these
species have been implicated in Lyssavirus epizootiology in Africa.

"The adaptability of Egyptian fruit bats should be a cause for concern because
of the potential for survival and interaction among indigenous bat fauna,
particularly in the southern United States."

Such a disaster would not be the first importation of a lyssavirus to the
United States.  While folklore recounts tales of bat-spread disease prior to
European colonization of the New World, the importation of dogs and red foxes
for the sport of fox hunting led to widespread epizootics.

When rabies became a nationally reported disease in 1938, limited surveillance
revealed 9,412 cases per year - mostly in domestic animals - with 47 human
deaths.  Rabies control efforts for pet dogs began in the 1920s and by 1960
rabies occurred more often in wild than in domestic animals.

From 1961 to 1989, skunks were the primary U.S.  reservoir for rabies but they
were then supplanted by raccoons, probably boosted by transport of infected
animals from southern states.

Along with this change in animal vectors, the human epidemiology of rabies has
changed.  Until 1965, most up to 80 percent of human cases occurred after a
known exposure, usually a dog bite.  But in the last 10 years - with the 1975
advent of a more effective canine vaccine - rabies deaths occurred in people
who had no history of an animal bite.

"Almost all the recent human cases occurred after an animal exposure that was
unrecognized by the patient as carrying a risk for rabies infection,"
Rupprecht et al.  wrote.  "The apparent source of human rabies has also
changed:  14 of the 18 cases acquired in the United States since 1980 involved
rabies variants associated with insectivorous bats."

As noted above, the cost of rabies protection is high.  Rupprecht et al.
noted that the New York State rabies diagnostic laboratory received 3,000
submissions in 1989, but received 12,000 submissions in 1993 after the
epizootic of raccoon rabies reached the state.

"The cost per human life saved from rabies ranges from approximately $10,000
to $100 million, depending on the nature of the exposure and the probability
of rabies in a region," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.

"What's more, most economic analyses do not take into account the
psychological trauma caused by human exposure to rabies, the subsequent
euthanasia of pets, or the loss of wildlife resources during rabies outbreaks.
Rabies in wildlife has now reached historically high levels in the United
States, and the costs of preventing human rabies are mounting."

Rupprecht, chief of the CDC Rabies Section, and colleagues argue strongly
against population reduction of animal vectors for rabies on ecological,
economic, and ethical grounds.  They instead promote oral vaccination programs
for wildlife, a concept first proposed in the 1960s by the CDC.

"Oral rabies vaccination of the red fox with vaccine-laden baits is an
integral aspect of rabies control throughout southeastern Canada and Europe,
where more than 75 million doses of vaccine have been distributed over 5
million km(2) during the past two decades," they wrote.  "Consequently, rabies
incidence among wild and domestic animals has fallen, as have PETS for human
rabies."

However, the shift of the epizootic from foxes to raccoons required an
extensive laboratory and field research effort, as the vaccines effective for
foxes were ineffective for raccoons and coyotes.

"In 1983, a vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein (V-RG) recombinant virus vaccine was
developed that has proven to be an effective oral immunogen in raccoons and
various other important reservoir species; vaccine advantages include improved
thermostability and an inability to cause rabies," Rupprecht et al.  wrote.
"When vaccine-laden baits are offered under natural conditions, contact with
them by nontarget wildlife species cannot be totally excluded.  However,
studies of V-RG virus have shown no vaccine-associated morbidity, mortality,
or gross pathologic lesions in more than 40 warm-blooded vertebrate species
examined."

An efficacy field trial of the V-RG vaccine took place in Cape May, New
Jersey, between spring 1992 and autumn 1994.  Nearly 100,000 fishmeal baits
laced with vaccine were distributed over 56,000 hectares both by hand and by
helicopter.  Overall rabies incidence and rate of spread was significantly
reduced.

Although oral wildlife vaccination programs are currently in Massachusetts,
New York, Florida, and southern Texas, Rupprecht et al.  noted that there are
many questions yet to be answered:

* What is the optimal ratio of animal population density to bait density?

* What level of herd immunity will be required to eliminate rabies?

* What is the best way to distribute the vaccine bait?

* How can the methods successful for foxes and raccoons be adapted to rabies
control in species such as skunks, mongooses, and dogs?

* Who will fund these programs over time?

* What do rabies control and prevention efforts really cost?

"Given the problems inherent in wildlife control, the greater issue of
extending these methods to the control of dog rabies in the developing world
will be a challenge well into the next century," Rupprecht et al.  concluded.

The following CDC researchers contributed to this report:  Charles E.
Rupprecht, V.M.D., Ph.D., chief of the Rabies Section; Jean S.  Smith, M.S.,
research microbiologist; Makonnen Fekadu, D.V.M., Ph.D., research veterinary
medical officer; and James E.  Childs, Sc.D., chief of the Epidemiology
Section, Viral and Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch, Division of Viral and
Rickettsial Diseases, National Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.

The corresponding author for this study is Charles E.  Rupprecht, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd., Mailstop G33, Atlanta, GA
30333, USA; fax 404-639-1058; e-mail cyr5@ciddvd1.em.cdc.gov.

- by Daniel J.  DeNoon, Senior Editor





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Encephalitis
Microsphere Formulation Improves Encephalitis Vaccine


Mouse studies show that it may be possible to make a safe vaccine against a
deadly form of viral encephalitis.

Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis (VEE) virus - an alphavirus of the family
Togaviridae - is spread by mosquitoes and can cause fatal human infections
during epizootics among horses.

The most effective vaccine against VEE virus is the live attenuated Trinidad
donkey strain TC-83.  But not only do 20 percent of vaccinated humans and
animals fail to develop neutralizing antibody titers to TC-83, evidence
suggests that the vaccine may cause birth defects and diabetes.  Moreover,
there is concern that the vaccine strain could revert to its virulent form.

The alternative to TC-83 is the formalin-killed whole virus vaccine C-84.
While this vaccine is safe, it is far less effective than the live attenuated
vaccine and requires multiple injections for induction of immunity.

Now researcher Terrence E.  Greenway of the University of Alabama, Birmingham,
and colleagues have developed a microsphere delivery system for killed VEE
virus that is apparently both safe and immunogenic.  They reported their
results in the journal Vaccine ("Enhancement of Protective Immune Responses to
Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis (VEE) Virus with Microencapsulated Vaccine,"
Vaccine, 1995;13(15):1411-20).

"The microencapsulated VEE virus vaccine induced systemic immune responses
which were higher and persisted longer than those induced with the free virus
vaccine," Greenway et al.  wrote.  "The microencapsulated virus was more
effective than the free virus in inducing immune responses protective against
systemic challenge with virulent VEE virus."

Biodegradable polymer microspheres were developed over the last decade as a
means of releasing contraceptive steroids.  Vaccinologists were quick to see
the potential benefits of this technology.

"Microsphere technology has the potential benefits of reducing the number of
inoculations, enhancing the immune response via both parenteral and oral
vaccination routes, and in reducing the total antigen dose required to achieve
immune protection," wrote researcher M.C.  Steinhoff of the Center for
Immunization Research, Baltimore, Maryland, in a recent review (Vaccine,
January 1994;12(1):5-11).

Greenway and colleagues noted that a number of different research teams have
shown poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) or DL-PLG microspheres to be effective
vehicles for augmenting immune responses to antigen administered either
mucosally or systemically.

Various types of DL-PLG-based vaccines have already been proven safe in
humans.

Greenway et al.  created several versions of DL-PLG microencapsulated VEE
virus and compared their immunogenicity and protective efficacy to that of
free virus vaccine in BALB/c mice.

Subcutaneous immunization with 50 (micro)g microencapsulated VEE virus yielded
anti-VEE antibody titers up to 32 times higher than that seen with free virus.

When the mice that had received the microencapsulated vaccine received a
second booster immunization, their antibody responses remained stable
throughout the 100-day observation period.  Antibody levels began to wane only
in mice boosted with free virus.

"At high vaccine doses (i.e.  25 or 50 (micro)g), microspheres prepared with
either methylene chloride or ethyl acetate were equally effective in inducing
specific anti-VEE virus antibody response after both the primary and secondary
immunization," Greenway et al.  observed.  "However, when a lower dose (12.5
(micro)g) of the vaccines was tested, methylene chloride processed
microspheres induced higher antibody responses after both the primary and
secondary immunization.  ...  The solvent ethyl acetate reduced the
immunogenicity of formalin-fixed, inactivated VEE virus during the
microencapsulation procedure."

In addition, the researchers found that formalin-fixed VEE was far better than
non-formalin-fixed VEE for use in the microspheres.

"Formalin fixation of the whole inactivated VEE virus vaccine prior to
microencapsulation with the solvent methylene chloride dramatically enhanced
the immunogenicity of the final product, presumably through enhanced
conformational stability," they wrote.

In the mouse experiments, 80 percent of mice immunized with a single dose of 5
(micro)g VEE virus in microspheres prepared with methylene chloride survived
challenge with virulent VEE virus.  Only 20 percent of mice that received the
free virus vaccine survived challenge.

"At a high vaccine dose (i.e., 50 (micro)g), the microencapsulated vaccines
afforded 100 percent protection, whereas a similar dose of free antigen
resulted in 40 percent survival in one experiment and 100 percent survival in
a second experiment," Greenway et al.  wrote.

"These results, taken together with the protection results after secondary
immunization with either free or microencapsulated virus vaccine, indicate
that a single immunization with the microsphere vaccine could afford
protection similar to that attained with multiple immunizations with the free
virus vaccine."

The researchers are currently exploring the effectiveness of microencapsulated
VEE virus administered by various routes in protecting against aerosol
challenge with virulent VEE virus.

The corresponding author for this study is Suzanne M.  Michalek, Department of
Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Alabama 35294.

 - by Daniel J. DeNoon, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Epidemiology (HCV)
500,000 in France Infected with HCV


At least half-a-million people in France are infected with hepatitis C virus,
according to that country's Ministry of Health.

The figures were released for the first time in an effort to clarify how many
people in France actually had hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.  The Ministry
of Health report is the result of seven epidemiologic surveys conducted during
1994 and 1995 by teams of experts including virologists and specialists in
public health.  It was prepared by the National Public Health Network.

Details of the report were published in the November 4, 1995, British Journal
of Medicine (311:1187-1188).

According to the survey, at least 60 percent of the infections were
transmitted by blood transfusions or by illicit injection drug use.  The
prevalence of infections among health staff is not known but was estimated as
high as 3 percent.

The surveys included one study of 20,000 pregnant women and another involving
6,000 volunteers from the roles of people insured under the social security
system.  Results agreed with statistics gathered during routine screening of
blood donors.

Additional studies will be conducted to look at the prevalence of infection
among children and young people under the age of 20 and in people over 60.  A
survey among 6,300 people who attended routine health checks showed that
one-third of those who were seropositive had received a blood transfusion and
that one-third of those infected were not aware of their seropositivity.

It is estimated that 600 new cases of hepatitis C will be diagnosed each year
in France and that 3,500 to 5,000 patients should benefit from treatment with
interferon.

According to the report many doctors were reluctant to use this treatment,
even though studies have shown that the earlier it is started the more
effective it is.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Epidemiology (HIV)
WHO Reports 18.5 Million Have HIV


An estimated 18.5 million people worldwide are infected with HIV - a sharply
higher number attributed to better reporting rather a surge in the epidemic,
the United Nations (U.N.)  health agency said.

About six million people are thought to have developed AIDS since the start of
the epidemic in the late 1970s, the World Health Organization (WHO) said.  Of
these, 4.5 million have died.

An estimated 6,000 people are infected each day with HIV; of the 18.5 million
already infected, 1.5 million are children, the agency said.

WHO previously estimated that 1 million children and between 13 million and 15
million adults are infected with HIV and a total of 4.5 million people had
developed the disease.

The agency said the new figures reflected an improvement in estimating
techniques, better HIV prevalence studies and other research, rather than a
sudden jump in new infections.

Two-thirds of the estimated HIV cases and three-quarters of advanced AIDS
cases, are in sub-Saharan Africa, WHO said.

India has the most HIV carriers - an estimated 1.75 million of its one billion
people.  Thailand - another country where experts fear an explosion in cases -
has 700,000 HIV carriers.

The highest proportional HIV rate was in Botswana, with about 18 percent of
sexually active adults infected.  An estimated 17 percent of adults aged 15-49
had the virus in Zambia and Zimbabwe and 15 percent in Uganda.

In the Americas, Haiti had the highest proportion of HIV carriers, at 4.4
percent.  The Bahamas followed at 3.9 percent, with Barbados at 2.8 percent.
In the United States, where an estimated 700,000 people were HIV positive at
the end of 1994, the infection rate was 0.5 percent.

In Europe, Spain had the highest rate of HIV infections, with 0.58 percent of
sexually active adults, followed by Switzerland with 0.2 percent, WHO said.
WHO is forced to rely on estimates to gauge the spread of HIV and AIDS because
actual cases reported by governments give little idea of the true picture,
especially in Africa.

North Korea reports no cases of HIV.

Although WHO estimated the true number of AIDS cases at six million, the
actual number reported by governments was 1.3 million.  The United States
accounted for 39 percent of all the reported cases but only 7 percent of the
estimated cases.

The figures for HIV infections are for the end of 1994, while the AIDS figures
include cases that developed in 1995.  A WHO official said there was a slight
overlap in the two categories.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Infection Control
TB and AIDS Programs - Natural Partners or Not?


Can tuberculosis and AIDS prevention and treatment programs be successfully
combined?

The question was debated during a tuberculosis (TB) conference in Paris with
researchers expressing differing views.

D.A.  Enarson of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease
(IUATLD) argued that tuberculosis and AIDS prevention services are less than
compatible, because they target different groups.

"Tuberculosis prevention is a medical services related activity whereas HIV
prevention is a general population activity," Enarson noted.

"Because of the difference in the point of implementation of the two programs,
attempts to combine them are difficult."

Enarson made the remarks at the 1995 annual meeting of the IUATLD Conference
on Global Lung Health, held in Paris, France.

Enarson noted that while the goal of TB and HIV prevention programs is the
same - to prevent infections - the focus must be different.

"In the case of tuberculosis, prevention is based on a strategy of case
management in which infectious cases are found and treated, thereby preventing
transmission from the source (the sick patient)," Enarson noted in an abstract
presented at the conference.  "This is the only means of primary prevention.
Persons with the infection who are not sick almost never transmit the
infection to others.  With HIV infection, transmission occurs from an infected
person who usually has no clinical evidence of the infection.

"Prevention of transmission of this infection is, in general, based on general
health education aimed at behavior modification, Thus, the point of
implementation of the two programs is quite different:  for HIV, the point of
implementation must be the general population of subsets of it."

R.  O'Brien of the World Health Organization's Global Tuberculosis Program
countered that collaboration between AIDS and tuberculosis programs is
essential if services for already-infected persons are to be efficiently
implement.

"Isoniazid preventive therapy for co-infected persons may be highly effective,
but little work on its programmatic application has been undertaken," O'Brien
noted.  "Testing of TB patients for HIV may provide for better patient care
and help reduce HIV transmission, but voluntary testing with counselling is
not widely available."

O'Brien noted that virtually no home-based care programs for AIDS patients
with TB exist, even though these programs may help alleviate the burden on TB
programs and prevent further TB transmission in households.

O'Brien also found efforts to control nosocomial transmission of tuberculosis
to be lacking.

"AIDS and TB programs have unique expertise and orientations which together
can address the problems," he wrote in an abstract presented to the IUATLD
meeting.

"Unfortunately, until now these factors have been used as excuses for working
separately rather than for seeking fruitful collaboration.  However, TB is now
recognized as the most important opportunistic infection and cause of death in
HIV infected persons worldwide.  TB and HIV/AIDS programs can no longer be
permitted to function in isolation and must collaborate to improve care and
preventive services for those suffering from this 'deadly duo'."

The World Health Organization's E.  van Praag agreed that home-care programs
for people with AIDS offer unique opportunities to control tuberculosis in
developing areas.

"Over the last few years initiatives to set up community-based or home care
programs for people and families living with HIV/AIDS have mushroomed
rapidly," van Praag wrote in an abstract of a presentation to the IUATLD
conference.  "In countries heavily affected by HIV/AIDS, between 50-100
different home care programs can be identified (Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe,
Thailand).  These initiatives are a response to needs felt by HIV affected
families, communities and health staff in environments where hospitals can
scarcely cope and economic survival and social status of those families have
seriously deteriorated, due to AIDS.

"More than half of the people with HIV related illness will develop
tuberculosis.  Early recognition of tuberculosis and chances to complete
treatment are again hampered by limited collaboration within various health
care programs and by AIDS specific issues such as recurrent illnesses and
reduced income to afford frequent return visits.  Opportunities exist within
home care programs where peripheral health and social staff are in close
contact with patients and family care givers to early recognize TB disease
among HIV infected and affected family members.  Home care staff could provide
drugs, supervise DOT and educate families and communities about HIV and TB
prevention and care.  Projects in Ghana, Zimbabwe and South Africa have
already implemented joint TB and AIDS home care programs."

Researcher D.A.  Enarson is from the IUATLD, Paris, France.  R.  O'Brien and
E.  van Praag are from the Global Tuberculosis Program and the Global Program
on AIDS, World Health Organization, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Influenza
Killer Flu Expected


Influenza could develop a new form and trigger a worldwide epidemic at any
time, experts caution.

At a conference of more than 200 infectious disease specialists, work has
started on a plan to prepare for what some believe is an inevitable pandemic,
or worldwide epidemic, of killer flu.

John LaMontagne of the U.S.  National Institutes of Health (NIH) said at the
conference that the flu virus is "dynamic and very resourceful" and can change
rapidly into forms that overwhelm natural human defenses.  "We anticipate we
will have another pandemic, but we don't know when," he said.

Dr.  Dominick Iacuzio of the U.S.  National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases (NIAID) said concern about another pandemic led to his
organizing the conference.  "It has happened before, and it can happen again,"
he said.

The last major worldwide flu epidemic was in 1968, the so-called "Hong Kong
flu."  New strains of the flu virus typically sweep through the international
population every ten to 40 years.

"Some experts say we are overdue," said Iacuzio.

Alan Hansen of the World Health Organization (WHO) said modern transportation
makes it possible for new flu viruses to touch every continent within a matter
of weeks - it once took many months.

In 1918-1919, a new viral strain infected more than 2 billion people and
killed an estimated 20 million to 40 million.  The "Asian flu" in 1957 was
also new and caused 750,000 deaths in the United States alone.

Iacuzio said the Bethesda, Maryland, conference was called to help
international experts identify the gaps in what is known about the flu virus
and its control.

A formal report is being prepared, but these findings will be among the
conclusions, he said:

* Increased surveillance, particularly in remote Asian areas, is needed for
early detection of new flu viral strains.  If a potentially new form of the
flu is found early enough, said Iacuzio, the pandemic could be blunted by
rapidly producing a new vaccine.

* Some experts believe the concentration of proteins used in the flu vaccine
could be reduced, thus making more doses available.  "We don't know the
answers to this," said Iacuzio, and that knowledge could be critical if there
is a sudden, worldwide need for vaccine.

* Final work on vaccines that can be applied as nose spray or nose drops must
be completed.  These so-called "cold-adapted vaccines" use modified live virus
and have been shown to be effective in some studies.  Iacuzio said their
availability in a pandemic could save many lives by protecting people against
the disease.

* Antivirals, drugs used to treat the flu infections, could provide physicians
with important new weapons in treating patients already infected.  Iacuzio
said candidate drugs are being tested, but are not available.  Such drugs need
to be speedily developed, he said.






<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Occupational Exposure (TB)
Most TB in New York HCWs Due to Recent Infections 


A finding that most tuberculosis cases among health care workers in a New York
study were due to recent infections suggests that occupational transmission of
tuberculosis routinely occurs in facilities without recognized tuberculosis
(TB) outbreaks, according to Cornell University's Public Health Research
Institute.

A number of nosocomial outbreaks of tuberculosis occurred across the United
States during 1990 and 1991, resulting in several deaths among personnel in
contact with infected patients.  These outbreaks prompted the issuance of new
guidelines for health care workers from the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC).

"Since (the implementation of the CDC guidelines) there have been relatively
few reported outbreaks, which suggests that current control measures may be
effective," researcher Kent A Sepkowitz and colleagues wrote ("TB Among Urban
Health Care Workers:  A Study Using Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism
Typing," Clinical Infectious Diseases, November 1995;21:1098-1102).

"However, it is not known whether the apparently sporadic cases of
tuberculosis in health care workers are due to occupationally acquired
infections or, as a recent study suggested, are more likely due to
community-acquired infections.  In addition, the risk for HIV infected
personnel is not well defined, although some have suggested that HIV infected
health care workers should have the option of being assigned to an area
associated with a low risk of exposure to tuberculosis."

In this study Sepkowitz and colleagues at New York's Cornell University
Medical College analyzed cases of tuberculosis using laboratory-based active
surveillance system for TB at six hospitals in New York City (members of the
TBNetwork).

Cases of tuberculosis identified during 1992 to 1994 were analyzed according
to the occupational status of the patients.

The researchers reviewed medical records and restriction fragment length
polymorphism (RFLP) typing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates was
performed.

"No known nosocomial outbreaks of tuberculosis occurred at these hospitals in
the study period," Sepkowitz et al.  wrote.  "Occupational status was known
for 142 of 201 patients whose isolates were available for strain typing.
Patients infected by organisms with a clustered strain typing pattern, as
determined by RFLP analysis, were presumed to have recently acquired disease."

RFLP typing revealed that isolates from 13 (65 percent) of 20 health care
workers and 50 (41 percent) of 122 non-health care workers had a clustered
RFLP pattern.

Multivariate analysis of 75 patients with known HIV and occupational status
revealed that HIV status and health care worker status were independent risk
factors for a clustered RFLP strain.

The recent transmission rate of 65 percent outlined by Sepkowitz et al.  is
greater than that seen among health care workers with tuberculosis in Bern,
Switzerland, San Francisco, California, or the Bronx, New York.

Sepkowitz et al.  conclude that many apparently sporadic cases of tuberculosis
among health care workers may be due to unrecognized occupational
transmission.

The authors note, however, that the cases analyzed in their report probably
reflect transmissions that occurred prior to the time hospitals updated
infection control procedures.

"Our data suggest that occupational transmission of tuberculosis occurs in
hospitals without recognized outbreaks," Sepkowitz et al.  wrote.  "Health
care workers with HIV infection appear to be at particular risk.  Prospective
RFLP-based studies will be useful to confirm these findings and may help
determine the efficacy of current guidelines for preventing transmission of
tuberculosis in health care settings."

The corresponding author for this study is Kent A.  Sepkowitz, Infection
Disease Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New
York, New York 10021.

 - by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Human RSV Succumbs to Bioengineering Techniques


Bioengineered production of infectious human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
provides immediate applications for the development of a live attenuated
vaccine.

RSV is considered the most important pediatric viral respiratory pathogen
worldwide.  It is responsible for considerable morbidity and mortality and
lacks an approved vaccine or effective antiviral therapy.  In addition to the
lack of a good animal model (other than the chimpanzee), RSV does not grow
well in culture.  Both of these problems have impeded research, making the
development of a vaccine difficult.

Peter L.  Collins et al.  produced infectious human RSV from cloned cDNA
particles in vitro paving the way for development of live attenuated vaccine
strains ("Production of Infectious Human Respiratory Syncytial Virus from
Cloned cDNA Confirms an Essential Role for the Transcription Elongation Factor
from the 5' Proximal Open Reading Frame of the M2 mRNA in Gene Expression and
Provides a Capability for Vaccine Development," Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, December 5, 1995;92(25):11563-67).

"An exciting possibility is that RSV might be engineered in ways that enhance
its immunogenicity and induce a level of protection greater than that provided
by natural infection," noted Collins et al.  In addition "RSV can be evaluated
as a possible vector for protective antigens of other respiratory tract
pathogens.  An RSV vector also might have utility in transient gene therapy of
the respiratory tract."

The cloned RSV was produced by the intracellular coexpression of five
plasmid-born cDNAs.  One encoded a complete positive-sense version of the RSV
genome, and each of the other four encode a separate RSV protein.  If any of
these were deleted, RSV was not produced.  The cDNA segments were synthesized
by reverse transcription (RT)-coupled PCR (RT-PCR) from intracellular RSV mRNA
or virion-derived genome RNA.

They noted that the strategy for producing infections RSV from cDNA-express
antigenome involved its coexpression with those RSV proteins that were
necessary and sufficient to complete two important processes:  1) the ability
to produce an antigenomic nucleocapsid capable of RNA replication and 2) to
render the progeny genomic nucleocapsid competent for both RNA replication and
transcription.  Transcription by the genomic nucleocapsid would then provide
all of the other RSV proteins and initiate a productive infection.

Recently, this approach was successfully accomplished with two rhabdoviruses,
rabies and vesicular stomatitis virus, by M.J.  Schnell et al.  (EMBO J.,
1994;13:4195-4203) and N.D.  Lawson et al.  (PNAS, 1995;92:4477-81).

The possibility also exists that defined mutations can be introduced into
these infectious RSV clones.  This could have multiple applications toward the
understanding of the molecular biology and pathogenesis of this particularly
difficult to study virus.

"It may be possible to insert foreign sequence into the RSV genome for
coexpression," concluded Collins et al.  "Genes of interest for evaluation
include those encoding cytokines, antagonists thereof, or proteins rich in
T-helper-cell epitopes.  This offers the possibility of modifying and
improving the immune response quantitatively and qualitatively."

The corresponding author for this study is Peter L.  Collins, Laboratory of
Infectious Disease, 7 Center Drive, MSC 0720, NIAID, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-0720, USA.

 - by Michelle Marble




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Transmission (TB)
Primary School Teacher in Amsterdam Infects 19 Students


A primary school teacher with tuberculous laryngitis in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands, infected all of his students with tuberculosis (TB) before his
disease was detected.

All 19 children who had been taught by the teacher became infected with TB and
four contracted active disease, according to a report presented at the 1995
Annual Meeting of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung
Disease (IUATLD), held in Paris, France.

"Three months after the start of the new school year, the notification of
primary tuberculosis in two children of the same primary school urged the
local Municipal Health Service to perform source detection and contact
tracing," researcher S.T.  Keizer and colleagues from The Netherlands' Health
Service wrote in an abstract presented at the IUATLD conference.

Extensive testing was conducted and those with a skin induration of 10 mm or
more were considered infected.  A case of primary tuberculosis was defined as
the combination of a positive Mantoux test and compatible radiographic
findings.

"A teacher was identified as the source case," Keizer et al.  wrote.  "At the
time of detection he was without symptoms, yet his chest X-ray showed typical
infiltration of the left upper lobe and his sputum was Ziehl-Neelsen positive.
His medical history revealed that he had been suffering from severe hoarseness
for three months until a benign growth was removed from his vocal cords during
the summer-holidays.  The pathologist had reported the presence of epithelioid
cell granuloma indicating tuberculosis, but this had not reached the attention
of the otorhinolaryngist."

Nearly one-third of all 99 children at the school were found to be infected
with tuberculosis.

"All 19 children who had been taught by our patient until the summer holidays
were infected," Keizer et al.  wrote.  "Among them were four cases of primary
tuberculosis.  In the group (13 children) that had entered his class after the
summer-holidays only one infection was detected.  It is concluded that this
teacher was extremely infectious during the time he was hoarse from a
tuberculous laryngeal lesion.  The consideration of TB in the differential
diagnosis of laryngeal lesions needs emphasis for individual and for public
health reasons."

The corresponding author for this study is S.T.  Keizer, Tuberculosis
Departments of the Municipal Health Services, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

- by Salynn Boyles, Senior Editor





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Xenotransplantation
Baboon BMT Experiment a Reality


Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Structured
Biologicals Inc.  (SBI), Toronto, Ontario, Canada, announced that an SBI
sponsored experiment consisting of a bone-marrow transplant from a baboon to
an AIDS patient took place at a San Francisco, California, hospital.

On July 14, 1995, an advisory panel to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) unanimously recommended that one AIDS patient be allowed to receive an
experimental bone-marrow transplant from a baboon.  Collaborators on the
experiment include Dr.  Anthony Fauci, head of the U.S.  National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and Dr.  Robert Gallo, a pioneering
AIDS researcher at the U.S.  National Cancer Institute (NCI).

Avi Ben-Abraham, M.D., also a lecturer in surgery at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, took part in the procedure.

The experiment was devised by Dr.  Suzanne Ildstadt, Chief, Division of
Cellular Therapeutics, Pittsburgh University School of Medicine.  Ildstadt
discovered a novel blood cell, the "facilitating" cell, which eliminates the
risk of graft-versus-host disease, a fatal adverse reaction, and successfully
fights transplant rejection.

Baboons are naturally resistant to HIV-1.  It is therefore believed that the
uninfected baboon bone marrow cells will join the HIV infected human marrow to
restore the patient's immune function.

The applied "facilitating" cell technology may dramatically change the
practice of transplantation in that it could potentially enable permanent
acceptance of transplanted organs such as heart, kidney, lung and liver as
well as transplanted cells or tissue, all without the need for tissue matching
or prolonged administration of immunosuppressive drugs.

The technology could provide effective treatments for blood and autoimmune
diseases, such as:  Leukemia and Lymphoma, Sickle Cell Anemia, Thalassemia,
Systemic Lupus Euythematosis, Crohn's Disease and Type 1 Diabetes, and may
ultimately permit successful xenotransplantation (cross-species
transplantation).





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics
"Accuracy of Chest Radiograph Interpretation in the Diagnosis of Pneumocystis
carinii Pneumonia, Bacterial Pneumonia, and Pulmonary Tuberculosis in HIV
Positive Patients."  P.M.  Boiselle, I.  Tocino, R.J.  Hooley, A.S.

Pumerantz, P.A.  Selwyn and V.P.  Neklesa, et al.  New Haven, Connecticut.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To assess the accuracy of
chest radiographic interpretation in the diagnosis of Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia (PCP), bacterial pneumonia (BP), and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) in
HIV-positive patients and to identify the frequency with which these
infections mimic each other radiographically.  MATERIALS AND METHODS:  The
admitting chest radiographs of 153 HIV-positive patients with laboratory
proved BP (n=71), PCP (n=73) and pulmonary TB (n=9) and those of 10 HIV
positive patients with no active disease were reviewed retrospectively and
independently by 3 radiologists.  Readers were blinded to clinical
presentation, CD4 count, original radiographic interpretation, and final
diagnosis.  For each case, the radiologists listed a single diagnosis followed
by an assessment of degree of confidence.  RESULTS:  A confident diagnosis was
made in 136 of 163 cases (83.4%).  By specific diagnostic category, the median
accuracies are as follows:  pulmonary TB, 85%; PCP, 75%; BP, 64%; and no
active disease, 100%.  Correcting for random agreement, there was moderate
interobserver agreement.  Fifteen of 153 cases (9.8%) mimicked other
infections radiographically and were given the same inaccurate diagnosis by
all 3 independent observers.  CONCLUSION:  Chest radiographic interpretation
allows a confident and accurate diagnosis to be made in the majority of HIV
positive patients with PCP, BP, and TB at the time of hospitalization.  In
approximately 10% of cases, these infections may mimic each other
radiographically."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (TB)
"Effect of HIV Status on Chest CT Findings In Patients with Tuberculosis."
L.B.  Haramati, E.R.  Jenny-Avital and D.D.  Alterman.  Bronx, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  To describe the chest CT
findings of tuberculosis in HIV positive patients compared with a combined
group of HIV negative and untested patients with no known HIV risk factors.
CONCLUSION:  Chest CT in HIV positive patients with tuberculosis demonstrated
bilateral mediastinal lymphadenopathy significantly more frequently (67% vs
20%) and cavitation significantly less frequently (0% vs 80%) than a combined
group of HIV negative or untested patients with no known HIV risk factors."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Diagnostics (TB)
"Sites of Tuberculous Involvement in AIDS Patients:  Correlation with Gallium
Scans."  H.M.  Abdel-Dayem, S.Y.  Naddaf, B.  Mina, M.S.  Aziz, L.  DiFabrizio
and J.S.  Kempf et al.  New York, New York.


According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 81st Scientific
Assembly of the Radiological Society of North America, held November 26 -
December 1, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "PURPOSE:  Tuberculosis (TB) in AIDS
patients has a more aggressive and different pathologic picture than it does
in non-AIDS patients; this fact influences the methods of diagnosis and
treatment.  Gallium studies have been recommended in the work-up of these
patients.  The purpose of this study was to review the gallium scans in all
AIDS patients with a proved diagnosis of TB to find the sites of involvement
and causes of false negative gallium scanning and to provide correlation with
chest x-ray findings.  CONCLUSION:  Lymph node involvement with TB infection
in AIDS patients is more common than parenchymal lung involvement.  The
mediastinal and supraclavicular areas were involved most often, followed by
the axillary, upper abdominal and inguinal regions.  Anti-TB treatment affects
the sensitivity of gallium scanning in AIDS patients with TB."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Histopathology (HCV)
"Clinical and Histological Features in Anti-HCV RIBA Indeterminate Patients
with Normal ALT."  M.  Diago, P.  Carbonell, C.  Gonzalez, R.  Zapater, R.
Cors, P.  Rivera, C.  Tuset and J.  Villalba.  Hepatology and Immunology

Sections, Hospital General University, Valencia, Spain.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "The aim is to determine the clinical and
histological findings in patients with anti HCV RIBA 2 indeterminate and
normal ALT.  We studied 81 patients (39 men and 42 women, age 41.1, range
19-64).  In each patient, the clinical and epidemiological data were
collected.  Liver function test, anti HIV, markers of hepatitis B, RNA-VHC (by
PCR), anti HCV RIBA 3 and liver biopsy were performed in all the patients.  We
compared histological findings according to the results of PCR-VHC (+/-), the
antibody band positive in RIBA 2 and the RIBA 3 results (+/-/indeterminate).
RESULTS:  Previous transfusion was present in 18.5% (15/81) and without
parenteral antecedents in 72.8% (59/81).  ALT levels were persistently normal
in all patients, and they were HIV and HBsAg negative.  Previous HBV infection
was detected in 22.8%.  Histological diagnoses were:  Chronic hepatitis (CAH
or CPH) in 49% (40/81), Fatty liver in 8.6%(7/81), Minimal changes in 31%
(25/81) and normal liver in 11% (9/81).  RNA-VHC (PCR) was positive in 8
patients:  2 CPH, 3 CAH, 3 MC.  Histological diagnoses in the 73 PCR negative
patients were 27 CPH (37%), 7CAH (9.6%), 7 FL (9.6%), 1 CH (1.3%), 22 MC (30%)
and 9 normal liver (12.3%).  The RIBA 3 was positive in 10% of RIBA 2 positive
patients, negative in 10% and indeterminate in 80%.  CONCLUSIONS:  Only 27% of
RIBA 2 indeterminate patients had a parenteral risk of HCV acquisition.  Half
of the patients with RIBA 2 indeterminate had chronic hepatitis and only 8.6%
had a normal liver.  RNA (by PCR) was detected in 10%.  There is no
relationship between the band of RIBA 2 indeterminate and the severity of
liver disease.  Eighty per cent of RIBA 2 indeterminate patients were RIBA 3
indeterminate."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Immunology (TB)
"Regulation of the Human Cellular Immune Response in Tuberculosis."  J.J.
Ellner.  Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.


According to an abstract submitted by the author to The Lancet Conference 'The
Challenge of Tuberculosis', held September 14-15, 1995, in Washington, D.C.,
"Pulmonary tuberculosis is characterized by activation of local and systemic
immune and inflammatory cells and mediators.  Somewhat paradoxically, delayed
type hypersensitivity responses to tuberculin purified protein derivative, and
in vitro correlates frequently are depressed in patients with tuberculosis.
Cross-modulatory cytokines, produced by mononuclear phagocytes, chiefly
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-(beta)), deactivate effector function,
depress T-cell activation and may account for depressed delayed-type
hypersensitivity (DTH) and increased antibody levels.  Ingestion of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis by mononuclear phagocytes stimulates expression of
cytokines.  Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-(alpha)) and TGF-(beta) function
in autocrine circuits producing activating and deactivating signals,
respectively, for macrophage effector function.  Lipoarabinomannen (LAM) from
virulent M.  tuberculosis selectively induces expression of TFG-(beta)
relative to TFG-(alpha) by monocytes.  In patients with tuberculosis,
TFG-(beta) is expressed in granulomas, and blood monocytes show increased
spontaneous and tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD)-stimulated
production of this cytokine.  Moreover, neutralizing antibody to TFG-(beta)
reverses depressed PPD-stimulated blastogenesis and interferon-gamma
expression.  Therefore, TFG-(beta) seems a key mediator of immunosuppression
and energy.  Moreover, neutralizing antibody to interleukin-10 partly restores
PPD-stimulated blastogenesis.  Parallel with depressed T-cell responses,
patients with pulmonary tuberculosis show increased levels of IgM, IgG, IgG-1,
and IgE antibodies directed against M.  tuberculosis.  This finding too may
reflect cross-regulation by TFG-(beta).  Current understanding of
immunoregulation in tuberculosis provides some clear directions for
immunotherapy.  In dually-infected persons, activation of CD4 lymphocytes and
monocytes by tuberculosis might promote replication of HIV-1.  In fact, serum
and cell-derived TNF-(alpha) are increased in HIV infected tuberculosis
patients and this cytokine is known to stimulate HIV replication.  Further,
monocytes from patients with tuberculosis show increased infectability by HIV;
and PPD and M.  tuberculosis stimulate HIV replication in latently infected
macrophages.  Therefore, M.  tuberculosis and HIV infections may be mutually
enhancing.  The human immune response can be used to identify candidates for a
subunit vaccine.  Increasing evidence supports a primary role for
extracellular products of M.  tuberculosis as a target of protective immunity.
Epitope mapping of the secreted 30 kD alpha-antigen indicates immunodominance
of certain peptides that could provide the basis for an improved vaccine or
DTH skin test."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Infection Control (TB)
"Behavioral Factors in Tuberculosis Control."  E.  Sumartojo.  Division of
Tuberculosis Elimination, U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, Georgia.


According to an abstract submitted by the author to The Lancet Conference 'The
Challenge of Tuberculosis', held September 14-15, 1995, in Washington, D.C.,
"Tuberculosis control is directed towards ensuring that patients complete
treatment without infecting others.  Relevant Behavioral and social factors
concern the decisions and actions of individuals who influence treatment
outcomes, including persons at risk for disease, tuberculosis patients, and
health care providers.  Relevant issues include health education for patients
and for the public, provider knowledge and practice, the unique needs of HIV
infected persons and others at high risk of tuberculosis, and the quality of
treatment and control services.  Poor medication adherence remains the core
Behavioral problem in tuberculosis control.  Supervised or directly observed
therapy (DOT) is a currently accepted solution but it is not a panacea; where
successful, it is part of an array of other services.  Continuing social and
Behavioral research describes factors associated with adherence.  Ethnographic
research has addressed the knowledge and beliefs of individuals about
tuberculosis.  Findings are that individuals from various cultures associate
tuberculosis with stigmatization and rejection, have concerns about the
appropriateness and quality of health care, and are often misinformed about
the cause and treatment of the disease.  Studies of interventions show the
effectiveness of community health workers, family and community support, and
comprehensive services that include strong case management, efficient clinic
practices, and additional social or health services for patients.  Research is
emerging on communication strategies used by providers as they talk to
patients, and the impact of poor communication on patient behavior.  Studies
of treatment practices show that some physicians use inadequate regimens, with
implications for the education and supervision of physicians who treat
tuberculosis.  In the next few years, research will emphasize development of
locally appropriate and effective treatment services.  Behavioral research
must focus in intervention studies, informed by findings from existing
descriptive research, but also incorporating social and Behavioral theory and
research methods, and epidemiological research methods.  Critical issues will
be identifying the best mix of services for specific regions and types of
patients, improving provider communication strategies and provider practices,
and ensuring that persons with high likelihood of exposure or HIV infection
seek screening and complete preventive therapy or treatment for tuberculosis."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pathogenesis (HCV)
"Histological Progression of Chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Infection in
Untreated Asymptomatic Blood Donors."  M.M.  Ahmed, E.  Elias, K.  O'Donnell,
J.  Shaw, F.  Kennedy, R.F.  Harrison, F.A.  Ala, H.  Atrah and D.J.  Mutimer.

Queen Elizabeth Hospital Liver Unit, and Regional BTS, Edgbaston, Birmingham,
United Kingdom.

According to an abstract submitted by the authors to the 46th Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, held November
3-7, 1995, in Chicago, Illinois, "The natural history of chronic HCV is poorly
understood.  We prospectively monitored the histological progression of
chronic HCV infection in untreated asymptomatic patients using serial two
yearly liver biopsies.  PATIENTS AND METHODS:  Sixty five asymptomatic HCV
RIBA positive blood donors (48 male, 17 female, median age 37 years) referred
from the Blood Transfusion Service were investigated.  Forty had an overt
parenteral risk factor for HCV exposure - 36 IVDU, 4 prior transfusion.  All
were HCV RNA+ve.  Seventeen patients (26%) had normal initial transaminases.
Median ALT was 48iu (range 9-440, normal <30), AST 48iu (range 14-200, normal
30iu).  Liver biopsy was recommended for all patients, and histology was
scored (without reference to clinical details) according to a modified Knodell
histological activity index (HAI, maximum possible score 13).  63 patients had
an initial biopsy:  median HAI=2, mean HAI=2.8, range 08, none cirrhotic.
When HAI>=6 (9 patients), treatment with alpha interferon was recommended.
When HAI<6 (54 patients), interferon was not used but 2 yearly follow-up
biopsies were recommended.  To date, 29 biopsies have been repeated in
untreated patients - 16 deteriorated, 4 improved, 9 unchanged.  In re-biopsied
patients median HAI increased from 2 to 3.  Serum HCV RNA titre was not
related to progression.  The median ALT at 2 years was unchanged in untreated
patients.  CONCLUSIONS:  In asymptomatic RIBA+ve patients initial histological
changes are mild.  In many patients there is a slow histological progression
over 2 years."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Callitrichid Hepatitis
Montali, R.J.; Connolly, B.M.; Armstrong, D.L.; Scanga, C.A.; Holmes, K.V.
"Pathology and Immunohistochemistry of Callitrichid Hepatitis, an Emerging
Disease of Captive New World Primates Caused by Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis

Virus."  American Journal of Pathology, November 1995;147(5):1441-1449.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Pathology, "Callitrichid hepatitis is an arenavirus infection that recently
emerged as a highly fatal disease of New World primates in the Callitrichidae
family.  As we previously reported, these primates develop hepatitis after
contact with mice that are infected with variants of LCMV (LCMV(CH)), recently
determined to have 86% identity with GC-P gene of the Armstrong and Western
strains of LCMV.  Here, we describe the histopathological lesions and tissue
localization of viral antigens in confirmed cases of callitrichid hepatitis
from recent outbreaks in two U.S.  zoos.  The liver in marmosets and tamarins
with fatal infections consistently showed degeneration, necrosis, and
inflammation, with variable involvement of the spleen, lymph nodes, adrenal
glands, intestine, pancreas, and central nervous system.  Lymphocytic
choriomeningitis virus antigens were identified immunohistochemically in
necrotic foci in these organs as well as in nondegenerating areas in lungs,
kidneys, urinary bladder, brain, and testes.  The multi-organ tropism and
histological pattern of LCMV infection in marmosets and tamarins are similar
to those reported for the highly virulent arenavirus that causes lassa fever
in humans.  Comparative studies of callitrichid hepatitis and Lassa fever
would therefore be mutually beneficial for human and nonhuman primate
medicine."  The corresponding author for this study is:  RJ Montali,
Smithsonian Inst, Natl Zool Pk, Dept Pathol, 3001 Connecticut Ave NW,
Washington, DC 20008 USA.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Amer Soc Investigative Pathology, Inc, 428 East
Preston St, Baltimore, MD 21202-3993.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Drug Resistance
Goldstein, F.W.; Pean, Y.; Gertner, J.; Scaviner, P.; Deshayeslartigue, L.;
Moussion, J.; Moussion, J.; Corteel, P.; Grelat, S.; Sarzier, J.M.;
Lepargneur, J.P.; Masson, P.; Picard, P.; Kunzelmann, J.M.; Massoubre, B.;

Napoly, V.; Fermon, I.; et al.  "Resistance to Ceftriaxone and Other
Beta-Lactams in Bacteria Isolated in the Community."  Antimicrobial Agents and
Chemotherapy, November 1995;39(11):2516-2519.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemotherapy, "The incidence of bacterial species and their
susceptibilities to ceftriaxone and other beta-lactams from patients with
community-acquired infections were evaluated in a multicenter study over a
4-month period.  A total of 5,768 bacterial isolates were classified according
to whether the patient had been previously hospitalized or had received
antibiotic treatment.  The most relevant findings were the presence of 33.8%
penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates, 25%
beta-lactamase-producing Haemophilus influenzae isolates, and 36.4%
amoxicillin-resistant Escherichia coli isolates.  All of these bacteria were
fully susceptible to ceftriaxone.  Nosocomial multiply-resistant bacteria, and
particularly methicillin-resistant S.  aureus, were found, as expected, at a
higher frequency among previously hospitalized patients.  However, such
bacteria may be present in the community; their incidence is high in
particular clinical settings, and such bacteria should be considered when one
is choosing a first-line therapy for the treatment of severe infections."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  FW Goldstein, Fdn Hop St Joseph,
Microbiol Med Lab, 185 Rue Raymond Losserand, F-75674 Paris 14, France.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Soc
Microbiology, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Nosocomial (Catheter Colonization)
Raad, I.; Darouiche, R.; Hachem, R.; Sacilowski, M.; Bodey, G.P.  "Antibiotics
and Prevention of Microbial Colonization of Catheters."  Antimicrobial Agents
and Chemotherapy, November 1995;39(11):2397-2400.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemotherapy, "Slime-producing staphylococci frequently colonize
catheters, and when they are embedded in biofilm, they become resistant to
various antibiotics.  In the study that is described, the comparative
efficacies of vancomycin, clindamycin, novobiocin, and minocycline, alone or
in combination with rifampin, were tested in an in vitro model of
colonization.  The model consisted of the modified Robbins device with
antibiotic-impregnated cement filling the lumen of catheter segments.  The
synergistic combination of minocycline and rifampin was the most efficacious
in preventing bacterial colonization of slime-producing strains of
Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus to catheter surfaces.  A
similar trend was observed when the inhibitory activities of polyurethane
catheters coated with minocycline and rifampin were compared with the
inhibitory activities of catheters coated with other antimicrobial agents.
The inhibitory activities of catheters coated with minocycline and rifampin
against S.  epidermidis, S.  aureus, and Enterococcus faecalis strains, for
example, were significantly better than those of catheters coated with
vancomycin (P<0.05).  The inhibitory activities of catheters coated with
minocycline and rifampin against gram-negative bacilli and Candida albicans
were comparable to those of catheters coated with ceftazidime and amphotericin
B, respectively.  We found that the combination of minocycline and rifampin is
unique and highly effective in preventing the colonization of catheters with
slime-producing staphylococci and that it also displays a broad-spectrum
inhibitory activity against gram-negative bacteria and yeast cells."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  I Raad, Univ Texas, MD Anderson Canc
Ctr, Infect Dis Sect, Dept Med Specialties, Box 47, 1515 Holcombe Blvd,
Houston, TX 77030 USA.  For subscription information for this journal contact
the publisher:  Amer Soc Microbiology, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue, NW,
Washington, DC 20005-4171.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Nosocomial (Infectious Diarrhea)
Porco, F.V.; Visconte, E.B.  "Pseudomonas aeruginosa as a Cause of Infectious
Diarrhea Successfully Treated with Oral Ciprofloxacin."  Annals of
Pharmacotherapy, November 1995;29(11):1122-1123.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Annals of
Pharmacotherapy, "OBJECTIVE:  To describe an immunocompromised patient
(without AIDS) with nosocomial infectious diarrhea caused by Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.  Oral ciprofloxacin therapy proved to be effective.  CASE SUMMARY:
An 80-year-old woman with type II diabetes mellitus and hypertension developed
progressive renal insufficiency, was hospitalized because of uremia, and
underwent hemodialysis.  When the patient developed hematochezia, Duke's C
sigmoid colon cancer was detected and successfully resected.  She received
broad-spectrum antibiotics in the perioperative period.  The patient then
developed profuse diarrhea associated with abdominal cramping, a low-grade
fever, prostration, and headache.  The patient then started to receive
vancomycin 500 mg po qid empirically.  Four days later, the diarrhea continued
unabated, the Clostridium difficile titer was negative, and the vancomycin
therapy was stopped.  However, the stool culture was positive for heavy growth
of P.  aeruginosa sensitive to ciprofloxacin.  The patient then began to
receive ciprofloxacin 500 mg po bid.  Within 3 days the diarrhea stopped.
Oral ciprofloxacin therapy was continued for 10 days and the patient remained
free of symptoms with formed stools thereafter.  DISCUSSION:  Diarrhea
following the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics implicates pseudomembranous
colitis as the cause.  The patient did not respond to oral vancomycin therapy
and had a negative stool assay for C.  difficile toxin.  This patient was
believed to have Pseudomonas enteritis, which was confirmed by 2 positive
stool cultures.  The administration of oral ciprofloxacin therapy stopped her
diarrhea with a rapid resolution of symptoms.  CONCLUSIONS:  P.  aeruginosa as
a cause of infectious diarrhea is unusual.  When it occurs, it usually
represents a nosocomial infection in an immunocompromised host.  This report
illustrates that oral ciprofloxacin therapy is effective for Pseudomonas
enteritis, with rapid resolution of symptoms."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  FV Porco, Lutheran Med Ctr, Dept Med Educ, 150-55TH St,
Brooklyn, NY 11220 USA.  For subscription information for this journal contact
the publisher:  Harvey Whitney Books Co, PO Box 42696, Cincinnati, OH 45242.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Nosocomial (Pneumonia)
Djedaini, K.; Billiard, M.; Mier, L.; Lebourdelles, G.; Brun, P.; Markowicz,
P.; Estagnasie, P.; Coste, F.; Boussougant, Y.; Dreyfuss, D.  "Changing Heat
and Moisture Exchangers Every 48 Hours Rather Than 24 Hours Does Not Affect

Their Efficacy and the Incidence of Nosocomial Pneumonia."  American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, November 1995;152(5):1562-1569.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, "Heat and moisture exchangers (HME)
(Dar-Hygrobac II, Peters) can safely be used every 24 h for longterm
mechanical ventilation and provide a cost-saving alternative to heated
humidifiers.  We have prospectively determined whether changing HMEs every 48
h only affects their clinical and bacteriological efficiency in a series of
consecutive nonselected ICU patients requiring long-term mechanical
ventilation.  Two consecutive periods were compared.  During period 1, HMEs
were replaced every day; during period 2, they were changed every 48 h.
Patients from the two periods were similar in terms of age and indication for
and overall duration of MV (10 +/- 8.6 versus 10 +/- 9 d, P=0.9).  Minute
ventilation and maximum values for peak airway pressure were identical during
the two periods.  These values were also identical after 1 and 2 d of HME use
during period 2, indicating that HME resistance was not increased by prolonged
use.  Obstruction of the tracheal tube occurred only once in a period 1
patient.  The results of quantitative cultures indicate that the maximum and
mean levels of bacterial colonization during the two periods were similar for
the pharynx, trachea, Y-connector, patient, and ventilator side of the HM 8.
More importantly, the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia was similar during the
two periods (6/61 versus 8/68, P=0.7).  Thus, prolonged HME use is safe and
provides a substantial reduction in the cost of mechanical ventilation."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  D Dreyfuss, Hop Louis Mourier, Serv
Reanimat Med, 178 Rue Renouillers, F-92700 Colombes, France.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Lung Assoc, 1740
Broadway, New York, NY 10019.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pediatrics (HBV)
Hurie, M.B.; Saari, T.N.; Proctor, M.E.; Davis, J.P.  "Hospitals' Responses to
Universal Infant Hepatitis B Vaccination Recommendations."  Pediatrics,
November 1995;96(5 Part 1):875-879.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Pediatrics,
"OBJECTIVE:  To assess the extent to which hospitals in a midwestern state
with low acute hepatitis B virus (HBV) morbidity offered hepatitis B (Hep B)
vaccine to all infants, whether offering infants Hep B vaccine was associated
with hospital geographic location or size, as measured by the number of
births, and how hospital staff resolved key programmatic issues.  METHODS:
The managers of hospital newborn nurseries (n=110) were surveyed by mail.  The
written response rate was 72%; all of the nonresponders were interviewed by
telephone.  The outcome measured was the number of hospitals offering Hep B
vaccine to all infants by geographic region and hospital size.  RESULTS:
Sixty-five percent of the hospitals routinely offered Hep B vaccine to all
infants; these hospitals accounted far 80% of reported Wisconsin births.  In
univariate analysis, the decision to offer infants Hep B vaccine was
associated with both hospital size and hospital location.  After controlling
for size, hospitals in the northeastern region were eight times more likely
(relative risk, 8.21; 95% confidence interval, 1.30, 51.79) to offer infants
Hep B vaccine than hospitals in the southeastern (referent) region.  Regional
differences in reported rates of acute HBV infection do not explain this
finding, because morbidity in the northeastern region (1 per 100,000) is among
the lowest in Wisconsin.  Although more than 80% of hospitals with Hep B
vaccination programs required written informed consent for vaccination, had
standing orders for administering Hep B vaccine to infants whose mothers'
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) test results were known, and had
mechanisms to notify the infants' physicians that the infants had been
vaccinated, only 38% had standing orders for testing mothers whose HBsAg test
results were unknown.  CONCLUSIONS:  Hospitals are not necessarily deterred
from implementing infant Hep B vaccination programs by low community HBV
morbidity.  Hospitals should develop policies to assure that parturient women
with unknown HBsAg status are screened and their infants are appropriately
treated."  The corresponding author for this study is:  MB Hurie, Wisconsin
Immunizat Program, 1414 E Washington Ave, Room 167, Madison, WI 53703 USA.
For subscription information for this journal contact the publisher:  Amer
Acad Pediatrics, 141 North-West Point Blvd, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007-1098.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Pneumocystis carinii
Horner, R.D.; Bennett, C.L.; Rodriguez, D.; Weinstein, R.A.; Kessler, H.A.;
Dickinson, G.M.; Johnson, J.L.; Cohn, S.E.; George, W.L.; Gilman, S.C.;
Shapiro, M.F.  "Relationship Between Procedures and Health Insurance for

Critically III Patients with Pneumocystis carinii Pneumonia."  American
Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, November
1995;152(5):1435-1442.

According to the authors' abstract of an article published in American Journal
of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, "The objective of the present study
was to assess the association between type of health insurance coverage and
use of diagnostic tests and therapies among patients with AIDS-related
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP).  Fifty-six private, public, and
community hospitals in Chicago, Los Angeles, and Miami were selected for the
study, and the charts of 890 patients with empirically treated or
cytologically confirmed PCP, hospitalized during 1987 to 1990 were
retrospectively reviewed.  Patients were classified by insurance status:
self-pay (n=56), Medicaid (n=254), or private insurance, including health
maintenance organizations and Medicare (n=580).  Primary outcomes were the use
and timing of bronchoscopy, the type and timing of PCP therapy, and
in-hospital mortality.  The results indicate that Medicaid patients were less
likely than privately insured patients to undergo bronchoscopy (relative odds
= 0.61; 95% CI = 0.40, 0.93; P=0.02) or to have their diagnosis of PCP
confirmed (relative odds = 0.51; 95% CI = 0.33, 0.77), after adjusting for
patient, severity of illness, and hospital characteristics.  Medicaid patients
were approximately three-fourths more likely than privately insured patients
(relative odds = 1.73; 95% CI = 1.01, 2.96; P=0.04) to die in-hospital, after
adjusting for patient, severity of illness, and hospital characteristics.
However, with further adjustment for confirmation of PCP, Medicaid patients no
longer had a significantly higher likelihood of dying in-hospital.  We
conclude that Medicaid patients are less likely to receive diagnostic
bronchoscopy than privately insured or self-insured patients, more likely to
be empirically treated for PCP, and more likely to die in-hospital.  Higher
mortality among Medicaid patients may result from failure to diagnose and
treat alternative pathogens, a consequence of worse access to invasive
diagnostic tests."  The corresponding author for this study is:  CL Bennett,
333 E Huron St, Chicago, IL 60611 USA.  For subscription information for this
journal contact the publisher:  Amer Lung Assoc, 1740 Broadway, New York, NY
10019.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

Varicella-Zoster Virus
Perry, C.M.; Bryson, H.M.  "Oka/Merck Varicella Vaccine:  A Review of Its
Immunogenicity and Protective Efficacy Against Varicella."  Clinical
Immunotherapeutics, November 1995;4(5):396-416.


According to the authors' abstract of an article published in Clinical
Immunotherapeutics, "Oka/Merck varicella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine
produced from the Oka strain of the herpesvirus varicella zoster virus (VZV).
The Oka strain of VZV is recognized as having low virulence while eliciting
humoral and cell-mediated responses to VZV.  In numerous studies, Oka/Merck
varicella vaccine achieved a seroconversion rate of >95% in healthy children
and adolescents.  In immunocompromised children with leukaemia in remission,
seroconversion was achieved in 80% of vaccinees 12 months after vaccination.
Cell-mediated immune responses generally closely paralleled humoral immune
responses.  The vaccine is also immunogenic in healthy adults.  In healthy
children, a high level of protection was conferred by Oka/Merck varicella
vaccine, and in the only double-blind placebo-controlled study conducted to
date the vaccine was 98% effective in protecting healthy children against
varicella during 2 varicella seasons.  In children with leukaemia, Oka/Merck
varicella vaccine was 80% effective in protecting against mild varicella and
conferred 100% protection against moderate and severe varicella.  In healthy
adults, the rate of protection against varicella was reported to be
approximately 50%.  All observed cases of varicella in healthy and
immunocompromised vaccinees were mild and there were no reports of ay
disease-related complications.  Interestingly in children and adolescents with
leukaemia, the incidence of herpes tester was lower in children who received
Oka/Merck varicella vaccine than in similar children who had natural immunity.
Mild varicelliform rash (occasionally accompanied by fever) has been observed
in healthy children, adolescents and adults who have received Oka/Merck
varicella vaccine.  Pain at the injection site was the adverse effect most
frequently reported in one large study of the vaccine in healthy children.  In
children with leukaemia, vaccine-associated rash has been reported in up to
50% of vaccinees.  When Oka/Merck varicella vaccine was administered to
healthy children in combination with measles, mumps and rubella vaccine there
was no increase in the incidence of skin rashes compared with that caused by
measles, mumps and rubella vaccine in combination with placebo.  Thus,
Oka/Merck varicella vaccine is a highly immunogenic vaccine that confers a
high level of protection against typical varicella in healthy children and
adolescents, and in children and adolescents with leukaemia.  While results of
further long term studies investigating the persistence of protective immunity
against varicella are awaited with interest, available darn indicate that
Oka/Merck varicella vaccine is a major advance in the prevention of this
common and highly infectious disease."  The corresponding author for this
study is:  CM Perry, Adis Int Ltd, 41 Centorian Dr, Private Bag 65901,
Auckland 10, New Zealand.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Adis International Ltd, 41 Centorian Dr, Private Bag
65901,, Mairangi Bay, Auckland 10, New Zealand.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
INFECTIOUS DISEASE WEEKLY via NewsNet
December 25, 1995 & January 1

MEETINGS REPORT
*NEW LISTINGS  .  .  .  COMPILED BY KENNETH KIMSEY


January 15-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "BioEast '96."  Information:
BioConferences International, 4405 E.  West Highway, Ste.  501, Bethesda, MD
20814, Phone 301-652-3072, Fax 301-652-4951.

January 24-27, 1996, Lisbon, Portugal, "The Third International Conference on
the Macrolides, Azalides, and Streptogramins (ICMAS)."  Information:  Wallace
Communications, Inc., One Baltimore Place, Suite A-80, Atlanta, GA 30308,
Phone 404-873-6098, Fax 404-873-6198.

January 25-27, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "Epidemiology and Prevention of
Infectious Diseases."  Information:  Office of Continuing Medical Education,
Room MCB-630, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0742, Phone
415-476-4251.

* January 28 - February 1, 1996, Washington, DC, "3rd National Conference on
Human Retroviruses and Related Infections."  Information:  Infectious Disease
Society of America 703-299-0200.

January 28 - February 2, 1996, Vail, CO, "Infectious Diseases in Clinical
Practice."  Information:  University of California, Postgraduate Programs,
Department of Medicine, 1383 9th Avenue, UCSF Box 0656, San Francisco, CA
94143-0656, Phone 415-476-5808.

* February 11-15, 1996, Bethesda, MD, "Advances in AIDS Vaccine Development:
Eighth Annual Meeting of the National Cooperative Vaccine Development Groups
(NCVDGs) for AIDS."  Information:  Marta Glass 303-402-0121 or Elaine Matzen
301-496-6177 or Susan Wescott 301-496-8200.

February 12-16, 1996, Denver, CO, "Postgraduate Courses on Clinical Management
and Control of Tuberculosis."  Information:  Catheryne J.  Queen, National
Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, 1400 Jackson St.,
Denver, CO 80206, Phone 303-398-1700, Fax 303-398-1806.

February 15-16, 1996, Coronado, CA, "Oligonucleotide- & Gene Therapy-Based
Antisense Therapeutics."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

February 16-18, 1996, New York, NY, "Second Annual CME Course for the
Management of the HIV Infected Patient:  A Practical Approach for the Primary
Care Practitioner."  Information:  Center for Bio-Medical Communication, Inc.,
80 West Madison Avenue, Dumont, NJ 07628, Phone 201-385-8080, Fax
201-385-5650.

February 18-21, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "International Conference:
Communicable Diseases as Occupational Hazards - Medical, Biological, Ethical
and Legal Aspects."  Information:  Secretariat, ISAS International Seminars,
P.O.  Box 574, Jerusalem 91004, Israel, Phone 972-2-520574, Fax 972-2-520558,
or 972-2-868165.

* February 26-27, 1996, Rockville, MD, "IBC's 3rd Annual Conference on
Vaccines:  New Advances in Technologies and Applications."  Information:  IBC
USA Conferences, Inc., 225 Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone
508-481-6400.

March 1-2, 1996, Chicago, IL, "Tuberculosis and Migration."  Information:
International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, 68, Boulevard
Saint-Michel 75006 Paris, France, Phone 33-1-44.32.03.60, Fax
33-1-43.29.90.87.

March 4-8, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "STD Comprehensive."  Information:  San
Francisco STD/HIV Prevention Training Center, 1360 Mission St., Ste.  401, San
Francisco, CA 94102-2609, Phone and Fax 415-554-9636, E-mail:
pujo100w@wonder.em.cdc.gov, (Omit final comma from e-mail address.)

* March 5-7, 1996, Shanghai, China, "1996 Shanghai International Symposium on
Liver Cancer and Hepatitis."  Information:  Zhao-You Tang, M.D., Chairman,
1996 Shanghai International Symposium on Liver Cancer and Hepatitis, c/o Liver
Cancer Institute, Shanghai Medical University, 136 Yi Xue Yuan Rd., Shanghai
200032, P.R.  China, Phone and Fax 86-21-403-7181.

* March 7-8, 1996, Washington, DC, "IBC's Biennial International Conference on
Mycobacterial Infection:  Pathogenesis, Prevention and Strategies for New Drug
and Vaccine Development."  Information:  IBC USA Conferences, Inc., 225
Turnpike Road, Southborough, MA 01772-1749, Phone 508-481-6400, Fax
508-481-7911.

March 18-21, 1996, Bangkok, Thailand, "International Congress on Drug Therapy
in HIV Infection."  Information:  Jane Fensome, Conference Coordinator, Phone
44 1625615325, Fax 44 1625 616563.

* March 19-22, 1996, San Francisco, CA, "8th National AIDS Update Conference."
Information:  NAUC 96 Conference Registrar, c/o KREBS Convention Management
Services, 555 DeHaro Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94107-2348, Phone
415-255-1297, Fax 415-255-2244.

March 26, 1996, Washington, DC, "Tuberculosis:  What's New in Diagnosis and
Therapy."  Information:  Howard University, College of Medicine, Office of
CME, 520 W Street NW, Washington, DC 20059, Phone 202-806-5620, Fax
202-806-7934.

* March 29-30, 1996, Dallas, TX, "1996 National Blood Inventory Management
Conference."  Information:  AABB Education Department, 8101 Glenbrook Road,
Bethesda, MD 20814-2749, Phone 301-215-6482, Fax 301-907-6895.

* March 29-31, 1996, London, United Kingdom, "Acting on AIDS:  The Institute
of Contemporary Arts & The Terrence Higgins Trust."  Information:  Keith
Rudkin or Helena Reckitt, The Institute of Contemporary Arts, Phone 0171 873
0052.

April 14-18, 1996, Washington, DC, "Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology - Annual Meeting."  Information:  Experimental Biology
1996, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3998, Phone 301-530-7010.

* April 17-19, 1996, Vancouver, Canada, "The Fourth International Nature
Genetics Conference."  Information:  Diana Berger, Conference Services
Manager, Nature America, Inc., 345 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10010-1707,
Phone 212-726-9281, Fax 212-696-9594.

April 21-23, 1996, Washington, DC, "The 6th Annual Scientific Meeting of the
Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America."  Information:  Society for
Healthcare Epidemiology of America, 875 Kings Highway, Suite 200, Woodbury, NJ
08096-3172, Attention:  Annual Meeting Registration, Phone 609-845-1720, Fax
609-853-0411.

April 22-26, 1996, Denver, CO, "Postgraduate Courses on Clinical Management
and Control of Tuberculosis."  Information:  Catheryne J.  Queen, National
Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, 1400 Jackson St.,
Denver, CO 80206, Phone 303-398-1700, Fax 303-398-1806.

May 2-4, 1996, Leipzig, Germany, "BICON 6th Biennial Conference on
Antiinfective Agents and Chemotherapy."  Information:  6th BICON Congress
Secretariat, P.O.  Box 83 03 58, D-81703 Munich, Germany.

* May 3-6, 1996, Washington, DC, "Biomedicine '96:  Medical Research from
Bench to Bedside."  Information:  Editor-in-Chief, National Office 6900 Grove
Road, Thorofare, NJ 08086-9447, Phone 609-848-1000, Fax 609-848-5274.

May 4-9, 1996, Cairns, north Queensland, Australia, "Third International
Conference in the Series 'Options for the Control of Influenza.'" Information:
Influenza '96 Conference Secretariat, GPO Box 128, Sydney, NSW, 2001,
Australia, Phone 61-2-262-2277, Fax 61-2-262-2323.

May 6-7, 1996, Nice, France, "CIPI 4th International Conference on the
Prevention of Infection."  Information:  CIPI General Secretariat, EXPAND
CONNEXION, 53, rue de Paris, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt, France, Phone +33 1
48 25 80 61, Fax +33 1 46 05 66 03.

May 12-15, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "1996 Annual International Conference."
Information:  American Lung Association/American Thoracic Society, Phone
212-315-8700, Fax 212-265-5642.

* May 19-23, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "95th American Society for Microbiology
General Meeting."  Information:  American Society for Microbiology, 1325
Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171, Phone 202-737-3600.

June 2-6, 1996, New Orleans, LA, "American Association of
Immunologists/American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology/American
Association of Investigative Pathology."  Information:  Mr.  Raymond Palmer,
Exec.  Dir., AAI, 9650 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20814-3994, Phone
301-530-7178, Fax 301-571-1816.

June 10-13, 1996, Wanchai, Hong Kong, "7th International Congress for
Infectious Diseases:  A Collaboration of The World Health Organization, The
International Society for Infectious Diseases and The Dept.  of Microbiology,
Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong."  Information:
Congress Secretariat, Tour East (Hong Kong) Ltd., Level 2, Ritz Plaza, 122
Austin Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Phone 852-2366-3111, Fax 852-2314-1987 or
Norman R.  Stein, Exec.  Dir., ISID, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, MA 02115,
Phone 617-277-0551, Fax 617-731-1541.

July 7-12, 1996, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "XI International
Conference on AIDS."  Information:  Conference Secretariat, XI International
Conference on AIDS, P.O.  Box 48740, 595 Burrard St., Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada V7X 1T8, Phone 604-631-5210, Fax 604-631-5210, Email:
aids96@hivnet.ubc.ca.

August 11-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "10th International Congress of
Virology."  Information:  Secretariat, 10th Intl.  Cong.  of Virology, P.O.
Box 50006, Tel Aviv 61500, Israel, Phone 972-3-514-0000, Fax
972-3-5175674/514-0077, Telex 341171 KENS IL, E-mail:
virology@kenes.ccmail.compuserve.com.  (Omit final period from e-mail
address.)

* August 25-29, 1996, Singapore, "26th Congress of the International Society
of Haematology."  Information:  ISH 1996 Singapore, c/o CEMS Pte Ltd, 1
Maritime Square, #09-43 World Trade Centre, Singapore 0409, Phone 65-278-8666,
Fax 65-278-4077.

August 27-30, 1996, Nagoya, Japan, "14th International Scientific Meeting of
the International Epidemiological Association:  Global Health in a Changing
Environment."  Information:  14th ISM Secretariat, Dept.  of Preventive
Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku,
Nagoya 466, Japan, Phone 81-52-741-2111, ext.  2074, Fax 81-52-733-6729.

September 2 - November 1, 1996, Lima, Peru, "The Gorgas Course in Clinical
Tropical Medicine."  Information:  David O.  Freedman, M.D., The Gorgas
Memorial Institute, UAB Station, Birmingham, AL 35294-2170, Phone 800-822-6478
or 205-934-2687, Fax 205-933-5671.

October 9-15, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "New Insights in HIV Infection and
Disease."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia, 1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper
Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax 617-630-1395.

October 9-15, 1996, Hilton Head, SC, "3rd International Conference on
Engineered Vaccines for Cancer and AIDS."  Information:  Cambridge Symposia,
1037 Chestnut St., Newton Upper Falls, MA 02164, Phone 617-630-1399, Fax
617-630-1395.

October 14-16, 1996, Jerusalem, Israel, "Fifth International Conference on
Human Antibodies and Hybridomas."  Information:  John Herriot, HAH '96
Conference, Meetings Management, The Chestnuts, 1st Floor, 18 East Street,
Farnham, Surrey GU9 7SD, UK, Phone +44 (0)1252 726066, Fax +44 (0)1252 723303.

November 17-22, 1996, Nagasaki, Japan, "XIVth International Congress for
Tropical Medicine and Malaria."  Information:  Dr.  Hideyo Itakura, Secretary
General XIVth ICTM Secretariat, c/o The Institute of Tropical Medicine,
Nagasaki University, 1-12-4, Sakamoto, Nagasaki, 852 Japan.

February 3 - April 4, 1997, Lima, Peru, "The Gorgas Course in Clinical
Tropical Medicine."  Information:  David O.  Freedman, M.D., The Gorgas
Memorial Institute, UAB Station, Birmingham, AL 35294-2170, Phone 800-822-6478
or 205-934-2687, Fax 205-933-5671.

October 26-30, 1997, New Orleans, LA, "63rd Annual Scientific Assembly."
Information:  American College of Chest Physicians, Phone 708-498-1400, Fax
708-498-5460.

December 6-9, 1997, New Orleans, LA, "1997 Annual Meeting."  Information:
American Association for Respiratory Care, Phone 214-243-2272, Fax
214-484-2720.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-9</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B022-63</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh52.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022357 text/html 98108
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:21:45 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:22 GMT
Content-length: 97919
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh52.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet <BR>
January 17, 1994<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS REPORT  .  .  .  JANUARY 17, 1994</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>North Carolina&nbsp;AZOLE RESISTANCE COMMON IN AIDS PATIENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(483 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Sweden&nbsp;MECHANISTIC HETEROGENEITY RESPONSIBLE FOR DRUG&nbsp;SENSITIVITY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(438 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Canada&nbsp;OVEREXPRESSION OF MDR-PROTEIN PRESENT IN RESISTANT LUNG&nbsp;CANCER CELL LINE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(410 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>India&nbsp;NIFEDIPINE MAY ALTER DRUG RESISTANCE IN MALARIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(486 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>United Kingdom&nbsp;CHLOROQUINE-RESISTANCE IN MALARIA PATIENTS MAY BE&nbsp;OVERCOME</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(547 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>Japan&nbsp;NEW MYELOID CELL LINES USEFUL IN EXAMINING MDR1 GENE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(366 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Scotland&nbsp;GST RELATED TO MDR IN CANCER CELL LINES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(491 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Italy&nbsp;MDR ASSOCIATED WITH GLYCOPROTEIN IN AML PATIENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(279 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Tennessee&nbsp;PHENOXAZINE MODULATORS MAY HAVE TWO OR MORE MECHANISMS OF&nbsp;ACTION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(374 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>United Kingdom&nbsp;JSB-1 NOT PREDICTIVE OF THERAPY RESPONSE IN AML</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(377 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Connecticut&nbsp;PROGESTERONE CRUCIAL TO BINDING OF RHODAMINE 123</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(570 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Belgium&nbsp;HEPT-DERIVATIVES ACTIVE AGAINST RESISTANT HIV STRAINS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>The Netherlands&nbsp;CISPLATIN-RESISTANT CELL LINE, TERA-CP, IDENTIFIED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(437 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Canada&nbsp;ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE IN P. AERUGINOSA DUE TO ORFC&nbsp;-DEPENDENT DRUG EFFLUX</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(347 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>Massachusetts&nbsp;TLB EFFICACIOUS IN CISPLATIN-RESISTANCE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(399 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>University of California, Los Angeles&nbsp;PODOPHYLLOTOXIN ANALOGS MAY BE USEFUL IN DR TUMORS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(281 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>United Kingdom&nbsp;CEFPIROME EFFECTIVE AGAINST BACTERIA RESISTANT TO OTHER&nbsp;BETA-LACTAMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(362 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>University of Texas Medical Branch&nbsp;VERAPAMIL ENHANCES ACTIVITY OF SLEEPING-SICKNESS DRUGS IN&nbsp;MICE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(362 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>Canada&nbsp;INHIBITION OF DIGOXIN TRANSPORT IN VERAPAMIL NON&nbsp;-STEREOSPECIFIC</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(197 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>Pennsylvania&nbsp;ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE INHIBITION DUE TO ACTIVE-SITE&nbsp;INHIBITORS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(559 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Australia&nbsp;PGP EXPRESSION AND DRUG RESISTANCE INHERENT IN B-CELL CLL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(297 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>RESEARCH REPORT  .  .  .  JANUARY 17, 1994</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>A Comparative Study of Candida albicans Serotypes A and B&nbsp;on the Sensitivity to Antifungal Agents Using the Disk&nbsp;Method and MIC Determination</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(200 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>Susceptibility to Antifungal Agents of Cryptococcus&nbsp;neoformans Isolated from Cerebrospinal Fluid</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(213 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><LI>Quinolone Resistance</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(228 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>Accuracy of the E-Test for Susceptibility Testing of&nbsp;Staphylococci and Gram-Negative Bacteria Resistance to&nbsp;Antimicrobial Agents</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(179 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>Chloramphenicol (CHL) Treatment of Resistant Enterococcus&nbsp;faecium Infections</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>Combination Therapy with Zidovudine (AZT) and Didanosine&nbsp;(ddI) Selects for AZT Resistant HIV-1 (HIV) Strains&nbsp;Lacking a ddI-Resistance Mutation</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(390 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><LI>Relevance of Gentamicin-Mezlocillin Synergy at LGH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(320 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>Penicillin Resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae&nbsp;Strains:  Analysis and Implications</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(278 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>PERIODICAL REPORT  .  .  .  JANUARY 17, 1994</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>Muller, G.; Wied, S.  The Sulfonylurea Drug, Glimepiride,&nbsp;Stimulates Glucose Transport, Glucose Transporter&nbsp;Translocation, and Dephosphorylation in Insulin-Resistant&nbsp;Rat Adipocytes Invitro</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(485 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><LI>Rigas, J.R.; Francis, P.A.; Muindi, J.R.F.; Kris, M.G.; Huselton, C.;&nbsp;Degrazia, F.; Orazem, J.P.; Young, C.W.; Warrell, R.P.  Constitutive&nbsp;Variability in the Pharmacokinetics of the Natural Retinoid, All-Trans&nbsp;-Retinoic Acid, and Its Modulation by Ketoconazole</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(511 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><LI>Kuks, J.B.M.; Cook, M.J.; Fish, D.R.; Stevens, J.M.;&nbsp;Shorvon, S.D.  Hippocampal Sclerosis in Epilepsy and&nbsp;Childhood Febrile Seizures</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(294 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><LI>Lepage, P.; Devault, A.; Gros, P.  Activation of the&nbsp;Mouse mdr3 Gene by Insertion of Retroviruses in&nbsp;Multidrug-Resistant P388 Tumor Cells</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(400 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><LI>Castro, I.; Bergeron, M.G.; Chamberland, S.&nbsp;Characterization of Multiresistant Strains of Neisseria&nbsp;gonorrhoeae Isolated in Nicaragua</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(215 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

North Carolina
AZOLE RESISTANCE COMMON IN AIDS PATIENTS

    Azole resistance of oropharyngeal yeasts is a common
problem in patients infected with human immunodeficiency
virus type 1, and this resistance has clinical relevance,
according to a study from North Carolina's Duke
University Medical Center.
    Candida species, particularly Candida albicans, are
important opportunistic pathogens in patients with HIV-1
infection.  Infections can range from relatively mild
oropharyngeal or vulvovaginal candidiasis to severe
debilitating mucocutaneous candidiasis including Candida
esophagitis.
    "In our institution, during the past two years
Candida esophagitis has been the AIDS-defining illness in
7 percent of patients with HIV-1 infection," Miram L.
Cameron and colleagues wrote in the article, "Correlation
of In Vitro Fluconazole Resistance of Candida Isolates in
Relation to Therapy and Symptoms of Individuals
Seropositive for Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1,"
published in the November 1993 issue of Antimicrobial
Agents and Chemotherapy.
    "Fluconazole is used frequently for treatment and
prophylaxis of oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis.
Recently we noted several patients who developed severe
oropharyngeal or esophageal candidiasis while receiving
azole therapy.  This finding prompted us to look for in
vitro evidence of azole, specifically fluconazole,
resistance."
    Yeast strains isolated from the oropharynx of 87
consecutive patients infected with HIV were examined for
in vitro susceptibility to fluconazole.  Candida albicans
was isolated from 73 patients.
    Fifty-one of the patients had received antifungal
therapy in the month preceding their yeast infection.
Thirty-two patients had symptomatic oropharyngeal
candidiasis.
    The minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were
correlated with azole use and with clinical symptoms and
signs.
    "Although there is overlap between groups, in vitro
testing identified a large group of patients for whose
yeast isolates the fluconazole MICs were high and who
remained symptomatic while receiving azole therapy,"
Cameron et al. wrote.
    "In vitro susceptibility to fluconazole appears to
correlate with clinical resistance.  Although there is
overlap between the groups in the study, the trend is
apparent, and it is likely that in vitro testing will
become a clinical tool in the management of these yeast
infections."
    Cameron et al. call for further studies, with more
patients from other institutions, to confirm their
findings.
    "There are related questions to be answered," they
noted.  "First, does azole and/or polyene therapy select
for changes in the mucosal mycoflora, such as for the
inherently resistant organisms C. krusei and T. glabrata?
Second, does azole therapy induce the development of
azole and/or polyene resistance in the mycoflora present
during its use, or is azole therapy even necessary for
resistant C. albicans to be present?
    "Finally, what is the effect of drug dosage and
length of exposure to azoles in the development of
clinical resistance?  It is essential to answer these
questions correctly to establish clinically useful in
vitro susceptibility testing for fungi and to help design
appropriate strategies for antifungal therapy and
prophylaxis."
    Corresponding author Miriam L. Cameron is from the
Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Sweden
MECHANISTIC HETEROGENEITY RESPONSIBLE FOR DRUG
SENSITIVITY

    There appears to be a marked mechanistic
heterogeneity responsible for cytotoxic drug sensitivity
in cells with a common histologic origin exposed to the
same drug, according to a report from Uppsala, Sweden.
    In the article, "Characterization of Four Doxorubicin
Adapted Human Breast Cancer Cell Lines with Respect to
Chemotherapeutic Drug Sensitivity, Drug Resistance
Associated Membrane Proteins and Glutathione
Transferases," published in the September-October 1993
issue of Anticancer Research, researcher M. Delatorre and
colleagues examined resistance to doxorubicin.
    Four human breast cancer cell lines with or without
estrogen and progesterone receptors were adapted to
growth in the continuous presence of doxorubicin at 10
(Zr-75-1), 15 (HTB-122), or 50 (MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T)
ng/ml.  The sublines of Zr-75-1, MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T
showed 5-10-fold doxorubicin resistance and also cross
-resistance to vincristine (VCR) and etoposide (VP16).
    "The sublines maintained or slightly increased their
cisplatin sensitivity," the researchers wrote.  "The
sublines of HTB-122 showed resistance only to VP16
combined with a paradoxorubicinical increased sensitivity
to VCR.  The phenotypic alteration in the sublines with
respect to doxorubicin sensitivity was maintained for at
least two months in the absence of doxorubicin."
    The glutathione depletor buthionine sulfoximine (BSO)
and the calcium channel blocker verapamil (Ver) increased
the doxorubicin sensitivity slightly only in the MDA-MB
-231 and Hs578T sublines, respectively.  Ver also tended
to protect some of the sublines from cisplatin.
    The sublines of Zr-75-1 and Hs578T showed increased
expression of the 170-kDa permeability glycoprotein (P
-gp), whereas expression of a 85-kDa membrane protein
determined by the MRK20 antibody was increased in the
sublines of Zr-75-1, and HTB-122.
    Class pi glutathione transferase (GST) levels varied
greatly between the cell lines but increased during
doxorubicin selection only in the subline of Zr-75-1.
Class mu GST was detectable in the MDA-MB-231, Hs578T and
HTB-122 cell lines, whereas class alpha GST was
detectable in these sublines but undetectable in their
parental cell lines.  The Zr-75-1 subline showed a 5-fold
increase in the class alpha concentration.
    "Except for a correlation between increased P-gp
expression and resistance to doxorubicin, VCR and VP16,
no obvious correlations between receptor status,
increased P-gp expression, membrane proteins, GST levels
and acquired drug resistance were found," Delatorre et
al. wrote.
    "Thus, except for a possible role for P-gp in
multidrug-resistance, these findings indicate a
pronounced mechanistic heterogeneity responsible for
cytotoxic drug sensitivity also in cells with a common
histologic origin and exposed to the same drug."
    Corresponding author M. Delatorre is from the
University of Uppsala, Akad Sjukhuset, Department of
Oncology, S-75185 Uppsala, Sweden.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Canada
OVEREXPRESSION OF MDR-PROTEIN PRESENT IN RESISTANT LUNG
CANCER CELL LINE

    The overexpression of multidrug resistance-associated
protein is accompanied by increase in both K(+) channel
and volume-regulated C1(-) channel current in the
multidrug-resistant small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cell
line H69AR.
    "The coexistence of markedly elevated K(+) and C1(-)
channels in the H69AR cells suggests that solute export
from these cells may differ significantly from the
parental and revertant cell lines," researcher J. Jirsch
and colleagues wrote in the article, "Inwardly Rectifying
K+ Channels and Volume-Regulated Anion Channels in
Multidrug-resistant Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells,"
published in the September 15, 1993, issue of Cancer
Research.
    "Experiments are in progress to determine whether
modulation of the activity of these channels has any
bearing on the efficacy of cytotoxic drugs in multidrug
-resistant cells which overexpress multidrug resistance
-associated protein (MRP)."
    The multidrug-resistant SCLC cell line H69AR was
derived from its parental cell line, H69 by stepwise
selection in doxorubicin.  H69AR cells display a drug
cross-resistance pattern very similar to that of cells
overexpressing P-glycoprotein, but levels of P
-glycoprotein in H69AR cells are extremely low and
comparable with those found in parental H69 cells.
    "Multidrug resistance in H69AR cells has recently
been shown to be correlated with approximately a 100-fold
increase in the levels of mRNA encoding a novel member of
the ATP-binding cassette transmembrane transporter
superfamily," Jirsch et al. wrote.  "The physiological
function of this multidrug resistance-associated protein,
MPR, and the mechanism by which it may contribute to drug
resistance are currently unknown."
    Studies of multidrug-resistant H69AR cells which
overexpress the multidrug resistance-associated protein,
compared with drug-sensitive parental H69 cells and
reverant H69Pr cells, revealed an inwardly rectifying
K(+) channel current (conductance, 231 pS/pF) and
increased volume-regulated anion current (limiting
conductance, 2 nS/pF).
    "The anion current was selective for C1(-) ions and
sensitive to 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2-disulfonic
acid (0.1-1 mM) but ATP was not required for initial
current activation even in excised patch experiments,"
Jirsch et al. wrote.
    "K(+) current reversal potential varied 52 mV/10-fold
change in the external K(+) concentration and current was
blocked by BaC1(2) (0.1-1mM).  The results indicate that
overexpression of multidrug resistance-associated protein
is accompanied by increase in both K(+) channel and
volume-regulated C1(-) channel current in the multidrug
-resistant cell line H69AR."
    Corresponding author D. Fedida is from the Department
of Physiology, Queen's University, Kingston, Canada K7L
3N6.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

India
NIFEDIPINE MAY ALTER DRUG RESISTANCE IN MALARIA

    The calcium channel blocker (CCB) nifedipine may be
useful in combination with chloroquine for the treatment
of chloroquine-resistant malaria, but more study is
needed.
    Researchers from Chandigarh, India's Postgraduate
Institute of Medical Education and Research examined the
effect of nifedipine on the course of Plasmodium berghei
infection.
    "Recent reports point to a class of compounds, namely
CCBs, as being able to reverse such chloroquine
resistance by decreasing drug efflux from the cells,"
researcher Anju Kalra and colleagues wrote in the
article, "Altered Course of Plasmodium-berghei Infection
by Nifedipine Treatment," published in the September 1993
issue of APMIS.
    "Circumvention of drug resistance by verapamil and
nifedipine has also been reported in vivo in P.
chalbaudi-infected mice," Kalra et al.. wrote.  "These
workers have shown that calcium antagonists by themselves
do not have any inhibitory effect on the parasite and are
effective only when administered along with chloroquine,
both in chloroquine-sensitive as well as chloroquine
-resistant strains."
    The effect of CCB on the course and severity of
plasmodial infection has not been studied extensively.
    "This is necessary before considering the use of CCB
in combination with chloroquine for chemotherapy or
chemoprophylaxis of chloroquine-resistant malaria," the
researchers wrote.  "Keeping this in view, the present
study was undertaken to investigate different aspects of
the course of P. berghei infection in Swiss Albino mice
following nifedipine treatment."
    The researchers observed that mice receiving a daily
dose of 0.015 mg/kg of nifedipine had significantly
shorter prepatent, patent and survival periods compared
to untreated P. berghei-infected animals (P <0.001).
    "This shows that the calcium channel blockers, in
addition to possessing the property of reversing drug
resistance during combined therapy with chloroquine, may
also alter the pathophysiology of malaria infection,"
they wrote.
    Kalra et al. note that long-term therapy with
nifedipine, as shown in their study, is of interest with
respect to two epidemiological and chemotherapeutic
aspects of malaria.
    "Firstly, even though during short-term treatment of
an acute malaria attack the use of CCB drugs along with
chloroquine may not noticeably alter the host response,
it becomes important if CCB are used in prolonged
prophylactic therapy," they wrote.
    "Secondly, the calcium antagonist drugs are already
being widely used in the treatment of cardiovascular
disorders.  The effect of CCB on the severity and course
of malaria infection in patients on long-term calcium
antagonist drug therapy has not been studied.  Similarly
the long-term effects in patients receiving CCB for
circulatory disorders and chloroquine for malaria
prophylaxis are not known.  If these CCB drugs are to be
used in combination with prophylactic doses of
chloroquine in areas with a high incidence of chloroquine
resistance, their possible action on the general immune
status of the human host must be investigated before
initiating such a chemotherapeutic approach."
    Corresponding author R.C. Mahajan is from the
Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research,
Department of Parasitology, Chandigarh 160012, India.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

United Kingdom
CHLOROQUINE-RESISTANCE IN MALARIA PATIENTS MAY BE
OVERCOME

    Studies with agents such as verapamil suggest that it
may be possible to enhance chloroquine sensitivity in
malaria patients, according to a study from the
University of Liverpool.
    Resistance to quinoline containing drugs,
particularly chloroquine (CQ), is a major impediment to
the successful chemotherapy and prophylaxis of malaria.
CQ-resistant parasites fail to accumulate as much drug as
their sensitive counterparts, but the reason for this
phenomenon has not been determined.
    "There are at least two principal forms of drug
resistance in malaria," researchers Patrick Bray and
Stephen Ward wrote in the article, "Malaria Chemotherapy:
Resistance to Quinoline Containing Drugs in Plasmodium
falciparum," published in the October 1, 1993, issue of
FEMS Microbiology Letters.
    "First, resistance to the inhibitors of parasite
folate metabolism, which results from specific single
point mutations of the active site (the dihydrofolate
reductase molecule).  This form of resistance arose soon
after introduction of the antifolate drugs and spread
independently from many different foci.  Second,
resistance to chloroquine, which is thought likely to
involve more than one gene, took much longer to develop
and spread from only two foci.  The chloroquine
resistance mechanism, which forms the basis of this
review, has been intensively investigated and whilst not
fully elucidated, probably involves alterations in drug
transport rather than changes at the site of drug
action."
    Bray et al. suggest that CQ-resistant parasites are
believed to maintain lower intracellular drug levels by
means of an active efflux system, similar to that found
in multidrug resistant cancer cells, despite major
differences in both the genetic and biochemical
manifestations of drug resistance in the two cell types.
    Another theory suggests that CQ-resistance could be
linked to a defective CQ uptake mechanism, possibly an
impaired acidification process in the food vacuole of the
resistant parasite.
    "In our opinion, the rate of chloroquine efflux can
no longer be considered to be a reliable phenotypic
indicator of resistance, although the ability of
verapamil to increase steady-state chloroquine
concentrations (albeit at low extracellular chloroquine
concentrations) was found to be specific to resistant
strains," Bray et al. wrote.
    "We believe that chloroquine resistance cannot be
explained simply in terms of enhanced chloroquine efflux
(although efflux is certainly one of the factors
involved), and further, that the reversal of chloroquine
resistance cannot be explained simply by the global
inhibition of drug efflux."
    Despite the fact that the molecular basis of
chloroquine sensitization is poorly characterized in P.
falciparum, the prospect remains that by careful
selection of chemosensitizer it may be possible to
enhance chloroquine sensitivity in vivo, according to
Bray and Ward.
    "Regrettably, because of the unacceptable
pharmacological properties of known enhancers and their
loss of effect both in vitro and in vivo due to plasma
protein binding, none of the currently identified
enhancers is a suitable candidate," they wrote.
    "Studies which provide an improved understanding of
the resistance mechanism(s) evolved by the parasite could
highlight the sites at which pharmacological intervention
may reverse drug resistance.  Such studies may also
provide information that can be applied to the rational
design and use of future antimalarials, so that drug
resistance is less readily developed by the parasite."
    Corresponding author Stephen A. Ward is from the
Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University
of Liverpool, PO Box 147, Liverpool L69 3BX, United
Kingdom.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Japan
NEW MYELOID CELL LINES USEFUL IN EXAMINING MDR1 GENE

    Two newly identified myeloid cell lines, K051 and
K052, may be useful for investigating the cellular and
molecular events in leukemogenesis and drug resistance,
according to a report from a Japanese research center.
    The two cell lines were established from a patient
with multilineage CD7-positive acute leukemia.  The K051
and K052 lines were taken from the patient's bone-marrow
cells at diagnosis and at relapse, respectively.
    "The K051 cell expressed myeloid-associated antigen
(CD13 and CD33), a platelet-associated antigen (CD41),
and an erythroid antigen (glycophorin A)," researcher
Junko Abo and colleagues reported in the article, "p53
and N-ras Mutations in Two New Leukemia Cell Lines
Established from a Patient with Multilineage CD7-Positive
Acute Leukemia," published in the November 1, 1993, issue
of Blood.
    "The K052 cell expressed myeloid-associated antigens
(CD13, CD14 and CD33), lymphoid markers (CD2, CD5 and
CD7), and HLA-DR," Abo et al. wrote.  "Chromosome
analysis of both cell lines showed a 17p-chromosome."
    Both cell lines were investigated for aberrations of
the p53 gene and the N-ras gene.  A p53 mutation detected
in both cell lines consisted of a C to T substitution in
codon 248.  An N-ras mutation detected only in the K052
cell consisted of a G to C substitution in codon 13.
    Expression of the multidrug resistance gene (MDR1)
was also investigated by the semiquantitative reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).  MDR1
mRNA was more highly expressed by the K052 cell than the
K051 cell, being equivalent to that in HEL cells.
    The functional MDR1 protein against vincristine was
also observed, and its function was inhibited by
verapamil and cyclosporin A.
    "The K052 cells were capable of phenotypic or
morphologic differentiation after being incubated with
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, interleukin-2,
phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, or 1,25-dihydroxy
-vitamin D3," the researchers reported.  "In contrast,
the K051 cells responded phenotypically to retinoic acid.
    "Thus the K051 and K052 cell lines will be useful for
investigating the cellular and molecular events in
leukemogenesis and differentiation, and the mechanism of
expression of the MDR1 gene."
    Corresponding author Koiti Inokuchi is from the Third
Department of Internal Medicine, Nippon Medical School,
1-1-5 Sendagi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113, Japan.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Scotland
GST RELATED TO MDR IN CANCER CELL LINES

    Increased glutathione S-transferase (GST) has been
found to be involved in the drug resistance mechanism in
a human cancer cell line, suggesting that GST over
-expression is directly related to drug resistance.
    GST enzymes are often over-expressed in tumor cells
made resistant to cytotoxic drugs, but it has been
unclear whether GST over-expression is directly linked to
the resistance mechanism.
    Researcher Clare J. Wareing and colleagues at a
Scottish research center developed a human lung tumor
cell line resistant to 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB)
in an effort to establish whether selection for
resistance with a model GST substrate results in
selection of a cell line with higher GST levels.
    "The GST are represented by several gene families,
termed alpha, mu, pi, theta and microsomal, each of which
detoxify harmful electrophiles by catalyzing their
conjugation with glutathione," Wareing et al. wrote in
the article, "Increased Levels of alpha-Class and pi
-Class GST in Cell Lines Resistant to CDNB," published in
the October 1993 issue of European Journal of
Biochemistry.
    "In addition to the increases in GST in drug
-resistant cell lines, other evidence implicating these
enzymes in resistance includes the findings that GST
catalyze the conjunction of anticancer drugs such as
chlorambucil and melphalan with reduced glutathione, that
alpha class GST genes are amplified in a cell line made
resistant to chlorambucil and that the expression of GST
cDNAs in heterologous systems can lead to drug
resistance."
    Wareing et al. found that the resistant line of CDNB
(CDNBr), although only twofold more resistant to the
compound, exhibited a significant (15-fold) increase in
GST activity compared to the wild-type cell line.
    "Resistance to CDNB was associated with a marked
increase in the level of both alpha-class and pi-class
GST," the researchers wrote.
    "The increased levels of alpha-class and pi-class GST
in the CDNBr cells was not due to either gene
amplification or increased mRNA levels and appears to
involve either altered mRNA utilization or protein
stabilization.  In addition to being resistant to CDNB,
the CDNBr cell line also showed a 2.5-fold resistance to
cumene hydroperoxide but was not cross-resistant to the
anticancer drug chlorambucil."
    "The fact that the CDNB-resistant cell line was
cross-resistant to cumene hydroperoxide is consistent
with the ability of alpha-class GST to reduce organic
hydroperoxides," the researchers wrote.  "However, it was
surprising that the resistant line was sensitive to
chlorambucil.  There is strong evidence from the study of
chlorambucil-resistant cell lines and from gene-transfer
experiments that the GST have the capacity to protect
against the toxic effects of this compound.
    "The reason why no cross-resistance to chlorambucil
was observed in the CDNBr cell line is unclear and
suggests that a number of interacting factors are needed
to generate the drug-resistance phenotype."
    Corresponding author C.R. Wolf, is from the
Biomedical Research Center, Level 5, Ninewells Hospital
and Medical School, Dundee DD1 9SY, Scotland.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Italy
MDR ASSOCIATED WITH GLYCOPROTEIN IN AML PATIENTS

    An Italian study of multidrug resistance (MDR) in
acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) patients has confirmed
that in at least two patients blasts previously negative
for the glycoprotein P-170 became P-170 positive after
treatment with low-dose arabinosylcytosine (ARA-C) and
vitamin D(3).
    Researcher Mario Petrini and colleagues report
preliminary results from a pilot study begun in 1986 on
patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia treated for
several months with low-dose ARA-C and vitamin D(3).
During treatment or at the time of relapse, a monoblastic
component was frequently found.  A high percentage of
patients were P-170 positive.
    In the two cases of drug-resistance presented in
detail by Petrini et al. conversion of blasts from P-170
negative before ARA-C/vitamin D(3) treatment to P-170
positive after treatment was significant in failure of
clinical response to the agents.
    "The reported cases raise several issues about the
role of low doses of ARA-C, the monoblastic shift of
leukemias during vitamin D(3) administration, the
development of MDR and a possible therapeutic role of
calcium antagonists," Petrini et al. wrote in the
article, "Vitamin D(3) Administration and Multidrug
Resistance in Acute Nonlymphoblastic Leukemia," published
in the 1993 89(4) issue of Acta Haematologica.
    "The addition of the revertant drug nicardipine to
the previously inactive treatment induced a partial
response.  Thus, previously reported in vitro
observations on the differentiating activity of vitamin
D(3) metabolites, possible induction of multidrug
chemoresistance by differentiating agents and the
revertant activity of Ca(++) antagonist nicardipine
appear to be confirmed in vivo in the reported patients."
    Corresponding author Mario Petrini can be reached at
U.O. Ematologic, Medical Clinic 1, University of Pisa,
Pisa, Italy.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Tennessee
PHENOXAZINE MODULATORS MAY HAVE TWO OR MORE MECHANISMS OF
ACTION

    At least part of the activity of some N-substituted
phenoxazine modulators may be mediated through a P
-glycoprotein-independent mechanism, according to a
report from Memphis, Tennessee's St. Jude Children's
Research Hospital.
    In previous studies Julie K. Horton and colleagues
reported the synthesis and partial characterization of 21
N(10)-substituted phenoxazines in reversing resistance to
the Vinca alkaloids.
    "To more fully understand the mechanisms for
modulating multidrug resistance (MDR), we have
synthesized a series of phenoxazine derivatives, based
upon our initial observation that phenoxazine, where the
5-position sulfur of phenothiazine is replaced by an
oxygen atom, was a more effective modulator of Vinca
alkaloid accumulation than was phenothiazine," Horton et
al. wrote in the article, "Pharmacological
Characterization of N-Substituted Phenoxazines Directed
toward Reversing Vinca Alkaloid Resistance in Multidrug
-Resistant Cancer Cells," published in the October 1993
issue of Physiological Reviews.
    The researchers compared the activity of the 21
N(10)-substituted phenoxazines in increasing Vinca
alkaloid accumulation and reversing drug resistance in
two human colon carcinoma cell lines.
    Results demonstrated that N-substituted phenoxazines
increased accumulation of vinblastine and that, within
this series, there was little correlation between the two
cell lines when Vinca alkaloid accumulation was compared
at equal concentrations of modulator.  It was also shown
that N-substituted phenoxazines demonstrated both
quantitative and qualitative differences, compared with
verapamil.  The series included at least two compounds,
10-[3'-[N-bis(hydroxyethyl)amino]propyl]phenoxazine and
10-(N-piperidinoacetyl)phenoxazine, which increase Vinca
alkaloid accumulation but do not significantly inhibit
efflux.
    Several of the MDR modulators significantly enhanced
the accumulation (8-50-fold) of Vinca alkaloids in cell
lines with very low or undetectable P-glycoprotein
levels.
    "The studies presented here suggest that within the
series there are compounds that inhibit efflux
(verapamil-like activity), whereas others markedly
increase Vinca alkaloid accumulation without having
significant detectable inhibitory activity on the efflux
component," Horton et al. wrote.  "Several of the
phenoxazine modulators characterized enhance Vinca
alkaloid accumulation in cell lines where verapamil has
no significant activity.  Data support the concept that
influx of Vinca alkaloids may be enhanced in a P
-glycoprotein-independent manner by several N-substituted
phenoxazines."
    Corresponding author Julie K. Horton is now with the
Sealy Center for Molecular Sciences, University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

United Kingdom
JSB-1 NOT PREDICTIVE OF THERAPY RESPONSE IN AML

    The assessment of multidrug resistant (MDR) status by
immunocytochemistry using JSB-1 monoclonal antibody is
not predictive of response to chemotherapy in patients
with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), according to a report
from Great Britain.
    Forty one patients with AML, including 27 at
presentation and 14 relapsed or resistant cases, were
assessed for laboratory evidence of the MDR phenotype by
researcher A.B. Mehta and colleagues from London's Royal
Free Hospital.  The study was reported in the October
1993 issue of Leukemia and Lymphoma.
    Leukemic cells from all 41 cases were studied by
immunocytochemistry using the JSB-1 monoclonal antibody
and simultaneously by reverse transcription polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR) to evaluate expression of the MDR
1 gene.  Cells from 32 of the 41 cases were also assessed
for daunorubicin (DNR) accumulation and retention by flow
cytometry (FC).
    Nineteen of the 41 (46 percent) patients were
positive for MDR by JSB-1 immunocytochemistry (11 of 27
at presentation and eight of 14 relapsed or resistant
cases).  Nine of the 19 (47 percent) P-gp positive, de
novo patients achieved complete remission.
    Twenty-two patients were negative by JSB-1
immunocytochemistry (16 of 27 at presentation and six of
14 of the relapsed or resistant cases) and 11 of 22 (50
percent) P-gp negative patients achieved a complete
remission.
    Of the 32 patients assessed by FC, seven (22 percent)
were positive for the MDR phenotype with increased DNR
accumulation and retention in the presence of the MDR
reversing agent verapamil (VPM).  Six out of seven of the
FC positive cases were also JSB-1 positive, and six had
additional poor risk features.
    Of the 25 FC negative patients, six had received
previous chemotherapy and 15 (60 percent) achieved
complete remission.  MDR 1 mRNA levels were increased in
all seven FC positive cases whereas only seven of 19 JSB
-1 positive cases had raised MDR 1 mRNA levels.
    "These results suggest that the assessment of MDR
status by immunocytochemistry using JSB-1 is not
predictive of response to chemotherapy," the authors
conclude.
    "Flow cytometric analysis of blast cells appears to
correlate well with MDR 1 mRNA levels and may be a better
predictor of treatment outcome."
    Corresponding author A.B. Mehta is from the Royal
Free Hospital, Department of Hematology, Pond Street,
London NW3 2QG, England.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Connecticut
PROGESTERONE CRUCIAL TO BINDING OF RHODAMINE 123

    Progesterone appears to act by a non-genomic
mechanism to decease intracellular binding of rhodamine
123, making the dye accessible to the multidrug
resistance (MDR) pump, according to a report from the
Yale University Comprehensive Cancer Center.
    Rhodamine 123 is a mitochondrial dye that is retained
for prolonged periods by carcinoma cells.  In previous
studies it was reported that many transformed epithelial
cell lines and carcinoma-derived cell lines retain the
dye much longer than do normal epithelial cells.
    An important factor that decreases rhodamine 123
retention in cells is the MDR pump.  It has been widely
reported that resistance to cancer chemotherapy may be
caused by a pump that removes drugs from cells, and that
effective substrates for the pump are lipophilic and
cationic.  Compounds with these characteristics, such as
verapamil, directly interact with the pump to inhibit
transport of other substrates.
    "Rhodamine 123 is a good substrate for the pump, as
would be predicted by its structure; retention of this
dye has been suggested to be an assay for the presence of
the MDR pump in resistant cancer cells," researcher Erik
M. Jancis and colleagues wrote in the article, "Rapid
Stimulation of Rhodamine 123 Efflux From Multidrug
-Resistant KB Cells By Progesterone," published in the
November 2, 1993, issue of Biochemical Pharmacology.
    "In the course of analyzing the factors that
contribute to prolonged rhodamine 123 retention in
carcinoma cells, we found that progesterone did not
always inhibit efflux of rhodamine 123 from KB cells
selected for multidrug resistance," the researchers
wrote.
    "While investigating causes of retention of this dye,
we found that 10 uM progesterone caused a rapid
stimulation of efflux of rhodamine 123 within 15 minutes
from KB V20C cells, which overexpress the multidrug
resistance pump."
    Progesterone did not stimulate efflux from KB cells
that do not overexpress the pump, and verapamil blocked
rhodamine 123 efflux in the presence or absence of
progesterone, indicating that rhodamine 123 is removed
from KB V20C cells by the MDR pump.
    "Progesterone, however, is unlikely to stimulate
rhodamine 123 efflux by simply increasing pump activity
for two reasons:  (1) progesterone inhibited the efflux
of daunomycin from KB V20C cells, so it did not stimulate
efflux of all drugs, and (2) progesterone inhibited
efflux of rhodamine 123 from L1210/VMDRC cells and had
little effect on Adr(R) MCF7 cells; both overexpress the
multidrug resistance pump," Jancis et al. reported.
    In the experiments with KB V20C cells, progesterone
was the most active steroid tested.  At 10 uM,
progesterone caused a 70-fold stimulation,
desoxycorticosterone, testosterone, promegestone and
estradiol caused about 20-fold stimulation, and others
had little or no effect.
    "Progesterone may act by a non-genomic mechanism to
decrease intracellular binding of rhodamine 123, making
the dye accessible to the multidrug resistance pump," the
authors concluded.
    "The results of this paper demonstrate that retention
of rhodamine 123 is rapidly changed by factors other than
the simple overall activity of the multidrug resistance
pump and so the interpretation of retention is more
complex that simply reflecting the amount of the
multidrug resistance pump.  Determining how progesterone
influences rhodamine 123 retention will not only lead to
a greater understanding of why this dye is retained so
well by carcinoma cells but also may lead to new
knowledge of progesterone actions."
    Corresponding author Priscilla S. Dannies is from the
Department of Pharmacology, Yale University School of
Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06510.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Belgium
HEPT-DERIVATIVES ACTIVE AGAINST RESISTANT HIV STRAINS

    1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl]-6-(phenylthio)thymine
(HEPT) derivatives retain significant activity against
human immunodeficiency type 1 (HIV-1) mutant strains that
are resistant to other HIV-1-specific inhibitors,
according to a report from a Belgian research center.
    Several classes of structurally different compounds
have been credited with a highly specific activity
against HIV-1.  These compounds are not inhibitory to any
DNA or RNA viruses other than HIV-1.
    "The HEPT derivatives have not been analyzed for
their resistance to HIV-1 mutant strains that were
selected for resistance to the other classes of HIV-1
-specific inhibitors and contain a well defined amino
acid substitution in their reverse transcriptase (RT)
genome," researcher Jan Balzarini and colleagues wrote in
the article, "HIV-1 Drug-Resistance Patterns with
Different HEPT Derivatives," published in the October
1993 issue of Molecular Pharmacology.
    "Nor has the emergence of drug-resistant virus under
HEPT therapy been investigated.  In the present study, we
found that HEPT derivates in general remain inhibitory to
HIV-1 strains selected for resistance to various other
classes of HIV-1-specific inhibitors."
    The researchers also found that HIV-1 mutant strains
selected for resistance to various other classes of HEPT
derivatives show cross-resistance to virtually all of
other HIV-1-specific inhibitors.  Different HEPT
derivatives were also found to select for different
mutations in the HIV-1 RT gene.
    "When directly selected for resistance to the HEPT
derivates, the HIV-1 mutant strains are resistant not
only to the HEPT derivatives but also to the other HIV-1
-specific RT inhibitors," Balzarini et al. wrote.
    "From a clinical viewpoint, our observations suggest
that the HEPT derivatives may be beneficial in the
treatment of those HIV-1 infections that have become
resistant to other HIV-1-specific inhibitors."
    Corresponding author Jan Balzarini is from the Rega
Institute for Medical Research, Katholieke University,
Leuven, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

The Netherlands
CISPLATIN-RESISTANT CELL LINE, TERA-CP, IDENTIFIED

    Researchers from the Netherlands describe a
cisplatin-resistant embryonal carcinoma cell line of
teratocarcinoma with the capacity to differentiate in
vitro.
    Teratocarcinoma is the most common form of cancer in
young adult men, consisting of two histological
components, embryonal carcinoma (EC) and teratoma.  EC
cells are the stem cells from which the teratoma
component is derived.  EC is highly malignant with a
tendency to early metastatic spread, but also responds
well to therapy with cisplatin.
    Resistance to cisplatin can be due to reduced drug
accumulation and increased detoxification of drug in the
cellular cytoplasm, but mechanisms of resistance are not
uniform and vary among different cell lines.
    In this study researcher Hetty Timmer-Bosscha and
colleagues describe the Tera-CP subline, which enables
the study of cisplatin-resistance in extremely sensitive
cells and the effect of serial cisplatin incubations on
the EC phenotype of the cells.
    "In the embryonal carcinoma cell line Tera and its
3.7-fold cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cisplatin)
-resistant subline, Tera-CP, parameters were studied that
might have changed in relation to induction of cisplatin
resistance," Timmer-Bosscha et al. wrote in the article,
"cis-Diamminedichloroplatinum(II) Resistance In Vitro and
In Vivo in Human Embryonal Carcinoma Cells," published in
the December 1, 1993, issue of Cancer Research.
    "Phenotypes of both lines were embryonal carcinoma.
Karyotypes were related with a decreased mean number of
chromosomes and fewer copies of the short arm of
chromosome 12 in Tera-CP."
    Tera-CP showed cross-resistance for melphalan and 4
-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide and had an 1.4-fold
increased glutathione (GSH) level, a 1.5-fold increased
glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, and a 1.4-fold
increased GSTpi expression compared to Tera.
    Tera-CP was cross-resistant to 5-fluorouracil, but
thymidylate synthase activity was not increased.
Topoisomerase I and II activities and c-myc RNA and
protein expression were the same in both lines.
    Platinum accumulation was equal in both lines, and
platinum-DNA binding was lower in Tera-CP than in Tera.
Both cell lines were xenografted into nude mice and
tumors showed marked differentiation.
    Tera-CP tumors were 2.8-fold more resistant to
cisplatin than Tera tumors.  In new cell lines derived
from xenografts of Tera and Tera-CP cisplatin
sensitivity, GST activity and GSH level corresponded with
their sensitivity and resistant origin.
    "Tera-CP is a model of in vitro and in vivo cisplatin
resistance with the GSH/GST detoxifying system as an
important mechanism," the researchers wrote.  "Cisplatin
resistance could be induced without a concomitant
increase in differentiation."
    Corresponding author Hetty Timmer-Bosscha is from the
Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital,
Oostersingel 59, 9713 EZ Groningen, Netherlands.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Canada
ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE IN P. AERUGINOSA DUE TO ORFC
-DEPENDENT DRUG EFFLUX

    ORFC-dependent drug efflux contributes to multiple
antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
according to a report from Ontario, Canada's Queen's
University.
    P. aeruginosa is a clinically significant pathogen
characterized by intrinsic resistance to a number of
antimicrobial agents.
    Recently researcher Keith Poole and colleagues
identified an operon (ORFABC) in P. aeruginosa apparently
involved in pyoverdine secretion.
    "We report here the characterization of ORFC, which
encodes an outer membrane protein whose overproduction is
associated with multiple antibiotic resistance," Poole et
al. wrote in the article, "Multiple Antibiotic Resistance
in Pseudomonas-aeruginosa - Evidence for Involvement of
an Efflux Operon," published in the November 1993 issue
of Journal of Bacteriology.
    An outer membrane protein of 50 kDa (OprK) was
overproduced in a siderophore-deficient mutant of P.
aeruginosa capable of growth on iron-deficient minimal
medium containing 2,2'-dipyridyl (0.5 mM).
    "The expression of OprK in the mutant (strain K385)
was associated with enhanced resistance to a number of
antimicrobial agents, including ciprofloxacin, nalidixic
acid, tetracycline, chloramphenicol and streptonigrin.
OprK was inducible in the parent strain by growth under
severe iron limitation, as provided, for example, by the
addition of dipyridyl or ZnSO4 to the growth medium,"
Poole et al. wrote.
    "The gene encoding OprK (previously identified as
ORFC) forms part of an operon composed of three genes
(ORFABC) implicated in the secretion of the siderophore
pyoverdine.  Mutants defective in ORFA, ORFB or ORFC
exhibited enhanced susceptibility to tetracycline,
chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, streptonigrin and
dipyridyl, consistent with a role for the ORFABC operon
in multiple antibiotic resistance in P. aeruginosa."
    Sequence analysis of ORFC revealed that its product
is homologous to a class of outer membrane proteins
involved in export.  Similarly, the products of ORFA and
ORFB exhibit homology to previously described bacterial
export proteins located in the cytoplasmic membrane.
    "These data suggest that ORFA-ORFB-oprK (ORFC)
-dependent drug efflux contributes to multiple antibiotic
resistance in P. aeruginosa," the authors noted.  "We
propose, therefore, the designation mexAB (multiple
efflux) for ORFAB."
    Corresponding author Keith Poole is from the
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Queen's
University, Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Massachusetts
TLB EFFICACIOUS IN CISPLATIN-RESISTANCE

    Thaliblastine may be of value in the treatment of
cisplatin-resistant malignancies with hyperthermia,
according to a report from Boston's Harvard University.
    Researcher G. Chen and colleagues examined
thaliblastine (TBL), a natural compound, in a murine
study examining a cisplatin-resistant ovarian tumor cell
line.
    "TBL showed a twofold higher cytotoxicity in a
cisplatin-resistant rat ovarian tumor cell line (0
-342/cisplatin) than in its parental sensitive line (0
-342), as determined by an antiproliferation assay with
24-hour continuous exposure," Chen et al. wrote in the
article, "Collateral Sensitivity to Thaliblastine and/or
Hyperthermia Exhibited by a Rat Ovarian Tumor Cell Line
Selected for Resistance to Cisplatin," published in the
September-October 1993 issue of Anticancer Research.
    This phenomenon was also observed following two-hour
pulse exposure if combined with heat treatment (40deg.C).
Further escalation of the temperature to 43deg.C alone
brought about 74.7 +/- 17.0 percent growth inhibition in
the sensitive and 97.2 +/- 1.8 percent in the resistant
line.
    "Under this condition, the ID50 of TBL was again only
half as much in 0-342/cisplatin cells as in the parental
cells (12 vs 24 mug/ml) when compared to the hyperthermic
treatment alone," Chen et al. wrote.  "In a colony
formation assay with two-hour pulse exposure, the
hypersensitivity of the resistant cells to cisplatin
and/or heat was further confirmed."
    Alkaline elution showed that 24-hour continuous
treatment with TBL induced DNA single-strand breaks (SSB)
in a dose-dependent manner in 0-342/cisplatin cells,
whereas there was almost no DNA-SSB production by TBL in
the sensitive line, possibly in part accounting for the
hypersensitivity of the cisplatin resistant cells to TBL.
    The heat treatment (40deg.C for two hours) induced
single strand breaks in both lines, which was further
enhanced by combination with TBL.
    This damage was repaired in part in 0-342 but almost
completely in 0-342/cisplatin line after cells grew in
drug-free medium for 48 hours following the exposure,
indicating that resistant cells can more efficiently
repair DNA damage by either TBL or hyperthermia.
    "Altogether, these results suggest that TBL may have
the potential to be used clinically as an alternative in
the treatment of cisplatin-resistant malignancies with
hyperthermia," the authors concluded.
    Corresponding author G. Chen is from the Harvard
University School of Medicine, Dana Farber Cancer
Institute, JF-525, 44 Binney Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

University of California, Los Angeles
PODOPHYLLOTOXIN ANALOGS MAY BE USEFUL IN DR TUMORS

    Podophyllotoxin analogs can overcome resistance to
etoposide and may be of value in the treatment of drug
-resistant (DR) tumors, according to a report from the
University of California, Los Angeles.
    Researcher H. Morimoto and colleagues described two
podophyllotoxin analogs in their article, "Cytotoxic
Activity Against Resistant Human Tumor Cell Lines by Two
Synthetic Demethylpodophyllotoxin Derivatives - A Single
Stereoisomeric Change Prevents Cell Death by Apoptosis,"
published in the December 1993 issue of the International
Journal of Oncology.
    "The present study investigated the cytotoxic
properties of two synthetic podophyllotoxin derivatives
namely 4-o-butanoyl-4'-demethylepipodophyllotoxin (BEPT)
and 4-o-butanoyl-4'-demethylpodophyllotoxin (BDPTN or
BN58705)," Morimoto et al. wrote.
    Both BEPT and BDPTN were shown to be cytotoxic
against a battery of human tumor cell lines.
    "In comparison to etoposide, the magnitude of
cytotoxic activity by BEPT and BDPTN was higher," the
researchers wrote.  "Furthermore, both compounds were
cytotoxic to drug resistant lines and also were able to
overcome the etoposide and cross-resistance of an MDR
positive cell line."
    The mechanism of cytotoxicity was also examined.
Like etoposide, a topoisomerase II inhibitor and inducer
of apoptosis, BEPT was found to mediate its cytotoxic
activity by an apoptotic pathway.  BDPTN, however, did
not mediate apoptosis.
    "These findings demonstrate that a simple
modification in the stereoisomeric structure results in
significant modification in both the cytotoxic patterns
and the induction of apoptosis," Morimoto et al. wrote.
"Furthermore, the findings show that the podophyllotoxin
analogs can overcome drug resistance and suggest their
possible application in the therapy of resistant tumors."
    Corresponding author B. Bonavida is from the
University of California, Los Angeles, School of
Medicine, Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
10833 Le Conte Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90024.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

United Kingdom
CEFPIROME EFFECTIVE AGAINST BACTERIA RESISTANT TO OTHER
BETA-LACTAMS

    A report from England finds that cefpirome has a
potential clinical advantage against gram-positive and
gram-negative bacteria resistant to other beta-lactams,
including imipenem.
    Researcher R.C. Spencer and colleagues examined
several beta-lactams in a multicenter in vitro study
involving 8,625 isolates from 13 countries, in an effort
to determine both the current bacterial epidemiology in
intensive care and hematology/oncology units and the
cross-susceptibility of the organisms to cefpirome,
ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, imipenem and piperacillin.  The
specimens were examined between May and November of 1992.
    "Bacterial species with 20 or more isolates resistant
to one of the six antibiotics were examined for their
susceptibility to the beta-lactams," Spencer et al. wrote
in the article, "Cross-Susceptibility of Cefpirome and
Four Other beta-Lactams Against Isolates from Hematology
Oncology and Intensive Care Units," published in the
Supplement 91, 1993 issue of Scandinavian Journal of
Infectious Diseases.
    Cefpirome and imipenem had the smallest total numbers
of isolates.  Bacteria resistant to ceftazidime or
ceftriaxone were often susceptible (>50 percent) to
cefpirome.  Conversely, cefpirome resistant isolates were
frequently resistant (>90 percent) to ceftazidime and
ceftriaxone.  P. aeruginosa was an exception, exhibiting
cross-resistance to all cephalosporins.
    Beta-lactamase producing Enterobacter, Citrobacter
and Klebsiella spp. were especially resistant to
piperacillin and ceftazidime but not cefpirome or
imipenem.  Two-thirds or more of coagulase-negative
staphylococci resistant to any single agent, including
imipenem, maintained their susceptibility to cefpirome.
    Cross-class resistance was not exhibited by imipenem
and cefpirome against ciprofloxacin resistant isolates
but was more evident for piperacillin, ceftazidime and
ceftriaxone.  Cefpirome was more active than ceftazidime
against bacteria resistant to both piperacillin and
gentamicin, especially coagulase-negative staphylococci
(76 percent versus 6 percent) and Enterobacter spp. (56
percent versus 21 percent).
    Many coagulase-negative staphylococci and
Enterobacter spp. resistant to two or three compounds
(piperacillin, gentamicin, ceftazidime) remained
susceptible to cefpirome (50-89 percent).
    "These results suggest that cefpirome has a potential
clinical advantage against gram-positive and gram
-negative bacteria resistant to other beta-lactams,
including imipenem," Spencer et al. conclude.
    Corresponding author R.C. Spencer is from the
Sheffield University Hospital, Royal Hallamshire, Glossop
Road, Sheffield S10 2JF, United Kingdom.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

University of Texas Medical Branch
VERAPAMIL ENHANCES ACTIVITY OF SLEEPING-SICKNESS DRUGS IN
MICE

    The calcium channel blocker verapamil was shown to
enhance the efficacy of drug response in mice infected
with human sleeping sickness strains of Trypanosoma
brucei brucei, but it showed no effect when given alone.
    Researchers at the University of Texas Medical Branch
at Galveston found that enhancement by verapamil of the
anti-trypansomal effects of ethidium were reflected in
accelerated clearing of the parasites from the blood, and
by the increased production, in the treatment schedule,
of dyskinetoplastic organisms.
    K. Lemone Yielding and colleagues concomitantly
administered verapamil during treatment for two different
strains of the parasite with the anti-trypanosomiasis
agents ethidium bromide or berenil.  This resulted in
enhancement of the drug effect as shown by increased
formation of dyskinetoplastic organisms, increased rates
of clearing of the parasites from the blood, and by
enhanced survival of infected mice.
    Verapamil treatment was associated with increased
intracellular accumulation of drug, as shown by
fluorescence of cells exposed to ethidium or DAPI, a
fluorescent surrogate for berenil.
    "In keeping with the reported involvement of
verapamil in preventing efflux of drugs from cells,
ethidium bromide accumulation in intact trypanosomes was
monitored by fluorescence in the presence and absence of
verapamil, and was reflected by detectable fluorescence
in treated cells at ethidium concentrations only 1/10 of
those required for detection in the controls," Yielding
et al. wrote in the article, "Effect of Verapamil on
Antitrypanosomal Activity of Drugs in Mice," published in
the October 1993 issue of Acta Tropica.
    "These results suggest that verapamil can enhance
drug accumulation in trypanosomes as it does in drug
resistant cancer cells and in chloroquine-resistant
malaria.  For trypanosomes the data do not permit
assignment of the effect to either efflux or influx,
however.  The findings in the present experiments suggest
that a verapamil sensitive gene product which can
influence drug response is expressed constitutively in
trypanosomes."
    The authors conclude that if, as implied by these
results, parasites express drug-resistance genes
constitutively, "the search for new drug strategies must
include manipulation of these resistance mechanisms in
concert with the application of new antiparasitic
agents."
    Corresponding author K. Lemone Yielding is from the
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas
77550.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Canada
INHIBITION OF DIGOXIN TRANSPORT IN VERAPAMIL NON
-STEREOSPECIFIC

    The inhibition of digoxin transport by verapamil
appears to be non-stereospecific, according to a report
from a Canadian research center.
    Verapamil, usually given as a racemic mixture,
decreases in vivo and in vitro digoxin renal tubular
secretion, which is suggested to be mediated by P
-glycoprotein, an ATP-dependent multidrug efflux pump.
    "Importantly, the two enantiomers of verapamil have
been reported to similarly inhibit P-glycoprotein
-mediated transport of chemotherapeutic agents,
researcher S. Ito and colleagues wrote in the article,
"The Mechanism of the Verapamil-Digoxin Interaction in
Renal Tubular Cells (LLC-PK1)," published in the Volume
53, Number 24, 1993 issue of Life Sciences.
    "In this study, we examined effects of enantiomers of
verapamil on digoxin transport across an LLC-PK1 cell
monolayer, a model of proximal renal tubular cells," the
researchers wrote.
    "The results indicate that verapamil inhibition of
digoxin transport is non-stereospecific.  Furthermore,
the verapamil-digoxin interaction is not competitive.
The two drugs may not share a common initial step in the
P-glycoprotein-mediated transport."
    Corresponding author S. Ito is from the Hospital for
Sick Children, Department of Pediatrics, Division of
Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, 555 University
Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Pennsylvania
ORNITHINE DECARBOXYLASE INHIBITION DUE TO ACTIVE-SITE
INHIBITORS

    Inactivation of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) by the
inhibitor, alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) can occur
via interaction with either of two separate residues that
form essential parts of the active site.
    "This renders it unlikely that resistant mutants will
arise from changes in the enzyme structure," researcher
C.S. Coleman and colleagues wrote in the article, "Effect
of Mutations at Active Site Residues on the Activity of
Ornithine Decarboxylase and Its Inhibition by Active
Site-Directed Irreversible Inhibitors," published in the
November 25, 1993, issue of the Journal of Biological
Chemistry.
    Mouse ODC and mutant changing residues thought to be
involved at the active site were expressed in Escherichia
coli, purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography
on a pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate-agarose affinity column,
and tested for their kinetic properties and their
inactivation by enzyme-activated irreversible inhibitors.
    "All of the mutant enzymes were expressed at
comparable levels to the wild type protein (2-4 percent
of the total soluble protein), all bound to the affinity
column, and there were only small differences in the
apparent K(m) values for L-ornithine, providing strong
evidence that the mutations did not lead to any gross
changes in the protein structure," Coleman et al. wrote.
    The mutation K69A led to a change in the spectrum of
the enzyme and a 550-fold decrease in the k(cat)/K(m)
(specificity constant) value.
    "These results are consistent with lysine 69 being
the residue that forms a Schiff base with the pyridoxal
5'-phosphate co-factor," the researchers wrote.
"Mutation C70S did not greatly affect the activity
despite its proximity to this lysine but increased the
K(m) about 2-fold.  In contrast, the mutation C360A
greatly reduced the specificity constant (by 26-fold)
despite a 2-fold decrease in the K(m), suggesting that
this cysteine residue is critically involved at the
active site."
    Although cysteine 360 is known to be the major site
of binding of the inhibitor DFMO, the C360A mutant was
still sensitive to inhibition by this drug.  However, the
kinetics of inactivation were altered, the partition
ratio was 10 times greater, and the labeled adduct formed
by reaction with [5-C-14] DFMO was removed from the
protein under some denaturing conditions.  This adduct
was found to occur at lysine 69.
    The K69A mutant was also sensitive to DFMO with a
lower partition ratio than the wild type enzyme.
    "These results indicate that inactivation of ODC by
DFMO can occur via interaction with either of two
separate residues that form essential parts of the active
site." Coleman et al. wrote.
    "In contrast to the results with DFMO, the C360A
mutant ODC was completely resistant to inactivation by
(R,R)-delta-methyl-alpha-acetylenicputrescine and was
much less sensitive than the wild type enzyme to alpha
-monofluoromethyldehydromethylornithine, showing that the
reactive species formed from these inhibitors either
cannot be formed by this mutant or are unable to react
with lysine 69.  Finally, the well known, extreme
reliance of mammalian ODC on the presence of thiol
-reducing agents to maintain activity is probably
explained by the critical role of cysteine 360, since the
C360A mutant was much less sensitive to inactivation by
incubation in the absence of dithiothreitol."
    Corresponding author A.E. Pegg is from Penn State
University, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, College of
Medicine, Department of Cellular and Molecular
Physiology, POB 850, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Australia
PGP EXPRESSION AND DRUG RESISTANCE INHERENT IN B-CELL CLL

    P-glycoprotein expression and drug resistance are
inherent characteristics of the B-cell chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) lymphocyte, according to a
report from an Australian research center.
    The expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), which is
associated with multidrug resistance (MDR), was
investigated by researcher R.L. Sparrow and colleagues in
20 B-CLL patients by flow cytometry using two Pgp
-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAb).  These mAB's were
MRK-16, which recognizes an extra-cellular epitope, and
JSB-1, which recognizes an intracellular epitope.
    Sixteen (80 percent) patients were positive with MRK
-16 whereas all patients were positive with JSB-1.  The
proportion of Pgp-positive lymphocytes from each patient
sample varied from 2-94 percent for MRK-16 and 20-93
percent for JSB-1.
    "There was no correlation between the level of
positivity and disease stage or treatment history,"
Sparrow et al. wrote in the article, "Common Expression
of the Multidrug Resistance Marker P-glycoprotein in B
-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia and Correlation with
In Vitro Drug Resistance," published in the November 1993
issue of Leukemia Research.
    In vitro drug resistance to vincristine (VCR) and
doxorubicin (DOX) was determined by the colorimetric MTT
assay.  All patients were resistant to one or both drugs
being consistent with the expression of Pgp.
    No correlation was seen between the level of
resistance and disease stage or drug treatment.
    "We investigated the expression of Pgp in the normal
counterpart of the B-CLL cells, CD5+CD19+ B-lymphocytes,"
Sparrow et al. wrote.  "A minor subpopulation (3 percent)
of CD5+CD19+ lymphocytes isolated from normal controls
expressed Pgp suggesting that these cells may be the
potential precursors to the B-CLL cell.  We conclude that
Pgp expression and drug resistance are inherent
characteristics of the B-CLL lymphocyte."
    Corresponding author R.L. Sparrow is from the Alfred
Hospital, Hematology Unit, Commercial Road, Prahran,
Victoria 3181, Australia.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

A Comparative Study of Candida albicans Serotypes A and B
on the Sensitivity to Antifungal Agents Using the Disk
Method and MIC Determination

AUTHORS:  A. Velegraki, N.J. Legakis and O. Marcelou
-Kinti.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 1st Scientific Meeting of the European Society of
Chemotherapy Infectious Diseases held November 25-27,
1993, in Budapest, Hungary, "Candida albicans isolated
from 108 patients with immunosuppressive regimens and
AIDS were typed into 61 serotypes A and 47 serotypes B.
Synchronous cultures of the isolates were tested for drug
susceptibility with standardized MIC procedures and with
a semisynthetic commercially available kit.  The mean MIC
values of serotype A did not differ significantly from
the drug sensitivities shown on the semisynthetic medium
(P<0.05) to 5-FC (MIC, A:1.76-1.88, B:5.98-6.29),
nystatin (MIC, A:1.48-1.53) and miconazole (MIC, A:0.39
-0.45, B:2.42-2.64).  The mean MIC values to amphotericin
B of all four B serotypes isolated from AIDS patients
were 2 ugml(-1) and two of those had increased mean MIC
values to fluconazole (5.32 ugml(-1)) and were read as
'partially resistant' to the drug on the semisynthetic
medium.  The significance of C. albicans serotype-
-dependent drug susceptibility and the effect of initial
imidazole monotherapy to the in vitro resistance to
amphotericin B, are issues currently addressed by further
studies."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Susceptibility to Antifungal Agents of Cryptococcus
neoformans Isolated from Cerebrospinal Fluid

AUTHORS:  V. Arsic, S. Mitrovic, I. Kranjcic-Zec and A.
-S. Dzamic.  Institute of Microbiology and Immunology
School of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Yugoslavia.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 1st Scientific Meeting of the European Society of
Chemotherapy Infectious Diseases held November 25-27,
1993, in Budapest, Hungary, "In recent years, fungi and
especially Cryptococcus neoformans (CN) play increasingly
important roles in patients with compromised host
defense.  Systemic fungal infections are sometimes
accompanied by the appearance of resistance to the
antifungal agents most commonly used in clinical
practice.  For this reason we investigated the in vitro
susceptibility of 9 strains of CN isolated from
cerebrospinal fluid:  from patients with AIDS (5), non
-Hodgkin Lymphoma (3) and renal transplantation (1).  The
in vitro susceptibility of yeasts to amphotericin B,
nystatin, miconazole, econazole, ketoconazole and 5
-fluorocystine (5-FC) was determined by agar diffusion
disk test (using complex casitone media and semisynthetic
media, Institute Pasteur, Paris), and by agar dilution
method (yeast nitrogen base, ATB Fungus, API).  There
were correlations between results obtained with this two
methods.  The examined strains of CN were susceptible to
polyenes and imidazoles, but one of them was intermediate
susceptible to 5-FC (MIC= 16ug/ml) and 2 of them were
resistant to 5-FC (MIC >128ug/ml)."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Quinolone Resistance

AUTHORS:  U. Hollenstein, Ch. Wenisch, S. Breyer, A.
Georgopoulos, E. Presterl and W. Graninger.  University
Hospital of Vienna, Austria.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 1st Scientific Meeting of the European Society of
Chemotherapy Infectious Diseases held November 25-27,
1993, in Budapest, Hungary, "In 1980, when the first
advanced spectrum fluorinated 4-quinolones became
available, they were particular effective for treating
gram-negative bacillary infections and some agents were
also active against gram-positive organisms.  However, in
recent years resistant strains of Pseudomonas and other
Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive organisms like
Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis and
Streptococcus pneumoniae have evolved.  We examined
routine bacterial samples from 1986 to 1992 for changes
in susceptibility to quinolones.  A loss of
susceptibility in most pathogens was observed.  In 1992
the resistance pattern in Austria (Pseudomonas aeruginosa
5.3 %, Staphylococcus aureus 33.3%, Staphylococcus
epidermidis 36.5%, Enterobacter cloacae 7.1%) resembles
the level of resistance in other countries.  Increased
use in the hospital, outpatient setting and even in
veterinary medicine might contribute to an expanded
inefficacy of quinolones in infections due to gram
-positive cocci, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Campylobacter
spp.  A control of quinolone resistance can be achieved
by continuous determination of the current resistance
situation, by limiting their use to infections like
typhoid fever, shigellosis, cholera, gonorrhoea and
urinary tract infections and by optimal dose and length
of treatment."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Accuracy of the E-Test for Susceptibility Testing of
Staphylococci and Gram-Negative Bacteria Resistance to
Antimicrobial Agents

AUTHORS:  E.D. Platsouka, E. Kitea, H. Dimopoulou, F.
Koroyannaki, S. Constantoulaki and O. Paniara.
'Evangelismos' Hospital, Athens, Greece.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 1st Scientific Meeting of the European Society of
Chemotherapy Infectious Diseases held November 25-27,
1993, in Budapest, Hungary, "We compared the results of
the E-Test MIC method with the results of agar dilution
susceptibility testing for 17 antimicrobial agents
against 114 strains of gram-positive and gram-negative
bacteria including 35 strains of staphylococci and 79
strains of antimicrobial-resistant gram-negative bacilli.
Overall agreement of MICs (+/-1 log2 dilution) was 98.2%
for staphylococci and 95.2% for gram-negative bacilli.
The E-Test produced MIC results comparable to those of
agar dilution when multiresistant organisms were tested.
It was necessary to add 2% NaCl to the Mueller-Hinton
agar (MHA), when testing oxacillin against staphylococci
and the plates were incubated aerobically at 30deg.C for
24h.  The E-Test is easy, quick to set up, does not
require special equipment and therefore has practical
advantages compared to other MIC methods."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Chloramphenicol (CHL) Treatment of Resistant Enterococcus
faecium Infections

AUTHORS:  C. Hardalo, M. Rigsby, L. Chen, C. Dykewicz, J.
Elmore, S. Nagy-Agren, P. Wetherill, S. Edberg and W.
Hierholzer.  Yale School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 31st Annual Meeting of the Infectious Disease Society
of America, held October 16-18, 1993, in New Orleans,
Louisiana, "We describe a series of patients with
resistant E. faecium infections treated with CHL.
Methods:  Cases were patients with isolates of E. faecium
resistant to ampicillin (AMP), vancomycin (VAN),
ciprofloxacin, and imipenem by standard methods.
Results:  18 cases were identified from review of
microbiology records at Yale New Haven Hospital between
7/1/92 and 4/1/93; 17/18 were also high level gentamicin
(GM)-resistant.  Three cases had positive cultures
without evidence of infection.  The other 15 cases
included the following infections:  6 lower urinary tract
(one with bacteremia), 6 line-related bacteremias, 2
peritonitis, 1 wound, 1 CNS, 1 lower respiratory tract.
14 (93%) were nosocomial with median of 22 days between
admission and infection.  9 patients (60%) required
intensive care units during hospitalization.  Antibiotics
received before infection included VAN (10 patients), GM
(10), cephalosporins (12) and other beta-lactams (11).
All isolates were sensitive to CHL (MIC <4 mcg/ml) and 11
patients were treated with CHL:  9 (36%) treated patients
are alive without infection after median follow-up of
28.5 days; 6 died, but in 9 there was sterilization of
cultures on CHL.  One patient who relapsed after initial
treatment is alive on CHL at the end of the observation
period.  Conclusions:  CHL was used to treat resistant E.
faecium infections, however, success was limited by
significant co-morbidity.  In some patients CHL may be
useful for treatment of resistant Enterococcal infections
and susceptibility testing for CHL should be considered."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Combination Therapy with Zidovudine (AZT) and Didanosine
(ddI) Selects for AZT Resistant HIV-1 (HIV) Strains
Lacking a ddI-Resistance Mutation

AUTHORS:  R.W. Shafer 1, H.J. Kozal 1, H.A. Winters 1,
D.A. Katzenstein 1, S. Fiscus 2, D. Katzman 2, P. Gupta
2, R. Meyer 2, R. Coombs 2, M.V. Ragni 2 and T.C. Merigan
1.  1Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford,
California and 2ACTG Protocol 143 Group.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 31st Annual Meeting of the Infectious Disease Society
of America, held October 16-18, 1993, in New Orleans,
Louisiana, "Introduction:  Antiviral drug resistance,
induced by specific pol gene mutations, has been linked
to clinical progression in HIV-infected patients
receiving antiretroviral drug therapy.  Experiments with
HIV constructs suggest that, in some cases, mutations
selected for by one antiretroviral drug may lessen
resistance induced by another antiretroviral drug.  For
instance, a ddI-resistance mutation at codon 74 of the
HIV pol gene has been shown to suppress the effects of an
AZT-resistance mutation at codon 215 of the HIV pol gene.
Method:  We studied drug susceptibilities (using an in
vitro culture assay) and drug-resistance mutations (using
a nested PCR protocol) of HIV strains from pts with 200
-500 CD4 cells/ul, treated for 1 year with either AZT and
ddI (24 pts) or ddI alone (26 pts).  Results:  HIV could
not be cultured from 7.5-12.5 million peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMC) after 1 year in 10/24 (42%)
combination therapy pts.  Among the 14 culture-positive
pts on combination therapy, 8 (57%) had an IC(90) (uM
ZDV) >/=10-fold higher than the IC(90) of a pre-therapy
isolate.  10/14 (79%) culture-positive combination
therapy pts had a codon 215 mutation in PBMC (3 pts)
and/or plasma (10 pts); in contrast, 10/10 culture
-negative combination therapy pts had a wildtype sequence
at codon 215 in PBMC or plasma (P=0.002).  ddI
susceptibilities of the combination therapy patients and
the ddI monotherapy pts were similar.  However a ddI
-resistance mutation at codon 74 was detected in 13/26
patients on ddI monotherapy as opposed to 2/24 patients
on combination therapy (P=0.004).  Conclusion:  To grow
in the presence of AZT and ddI, HIV strains acquired an
AZT-resistance mutation but lacked a ddI-resistance
mutation.  The drug-resistance mutations selected in the
clinical setting of combination therapy may be explained
by previous in vitro findings."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Relevance of Gentamicin-Mezlocillin Synergy at LGH

AUTHORS:  R.O. Dowd, D. Bryniarski and M.D. Batt.
Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, Illinois.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 31st Annual Meeting of the Infectious Disease Society
of America, held October 16-18, 1993, in New Orleans,
Louisiana, "Presently, at Lutheran General Hospital, a
742 bed acute care teaching hospital, the drug
acquisition cost for an average dose of gentamicin is
$1.50; for tobramycin, $13; and for amikacin, $56.  With
800 patient days per month of aminoglycoside therapy
prescribed, the cost implications of routine use of
aminoglycoside antibiotics other than gentamicin would be
significant.  At many hospitals, antibiotic choice is
based on 'worst case scenarios' for presumed
microbiologic etiology of clinical syndromes, and part of
the decision equation is the antibiogram, which
summarizes the antibiotic susceptibility data from the
most recent available time period.  Based on data from
our Vitek system, only 73% of Pseudomonas isolates were
susceptible to gentamicin, whereas 98% were susceptible
to tobramycin (We do not routinely print out amikacin
susceptibility.)  Because of concern, that in the unknown
clinical setting, there could be a Pseudomonas bacteremia
that would not be successfully treatable if the
antibiotic program recommended were ineffective 27% of
the time, we asked our epidemiology laboratory to look at
the 'resistant' Pseudomonas isolates more closely.  We
found that 84% of 'gentamicin resistant' isolates, in the
presence of mezlocillin showed synergy with gentamicin
mics of 2ug or less.  Since we always advise the usage of
2 drug therapy for treatment of non-urinary potential
Pseudomonas infections, we were able to recalculate the
antibiotic profile to 95% gentamicin susceptible in the
presence of mezlocillin.  The actual number of
Pseudomonas isolates identified each month averaged 32,
representing 1 isolate for every 25 patient days of
aminoglycoside therapy.  Based on these observations, we
have continued to include gentamicin as part of our
treatment of choice in our guidelines for empiric
antibiotic therapy."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Penicillin Resistance in Streptococcus pneumoniae
Strains:  Analysis and Implications

AUTHORS:  A.Z. Hakim, L.M. Alba-Sedutto and E.D.
Sinaguinan.  Maimonides Hospital, Brooklyn, New York.
    According to an abstract presented by the authors to
the 31st Annual Meeting of the Infectious Disease Society
of America, held October 16-18, 1993, in New Orleans,
Louisiana, "Prevalence of penicillin-resistant S.
pneumoniae (PR-PS) in the US has been low (5%) compared
to certain parts of the world (30-70%).  In 1991, 100
isolates at our institution were tested for
susceptibility to penicillin by standard disc diffusion
(DD) method.  PR was reported if a zone size of </=19 mm
was measured around a 1 ug oxacillin disc.  23 isolates
were found to be PR.  To analyze the impact of our data
on patient management, seven PR-SP isolates were
collected prospectively between 10/1992-4/1993.  Five
were recovered from blood, 1 from pleural fluid, and 1
from eye cultures.  They were tested for PR by the
microdilution technique.  Minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) results were interpreted as follows:
<0.1 ug/ml sensitive (PS), 0.1 to 1.0 ug/ml moderately
sensitive (MS), and >/=2.0 ug/ml highly resistant (HR).
4 isolates were PS and 3 were MS.  All patients
recovered.  Vancomycin therapy was resorted to in two
patients.  We did not find HR-SP in our limited study.
High rate of resistance to cephalosporins has been
reported among HR-SP strains.  There is no evidence that
therapy for proven or possible SP infection should be
initiated with vancomycin at our institution.  MS-SP can
be treated with high dose penicillin or third generation
cephalosporin.  DD results for SP indicating PR should be
verified by MIC to avoid potentially toxic therapy."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Muller, G.; Wied, S.  The Sulfonylurea Drug, Glimepiride,
Stimulates Glucose Transport, Glucose Transporter
Translocation, and Dephosphorylation in Insulin-Resistant
Rat Adipocytes Invitro

SOURCE:   Diabetes, December 1993;42(12):1852-1867.
    According to the authors' abstract of an article
published in Diabetes, "Sulfonylurea drugs are widely
used in the therapy of NIDDM.  The improvement of glucose
tolerance after long-term treatment of NIDDM patients
with the drug can be explained by stimulation of glucose
utilization in peripheral tissues that are characterized
by insulin resistance in these patients.  We studied
whether the novel sulfonylurea drug, glimepiride,
stimulates glucose transport into isolated insulin
-resistant rat adipocytes.  After long-term incubation of
the cells in primary culture with high concentrations of
glucose, glutamine, and insulin, stimulation of glucose
transport by insulin was significantly reduced both with
respect to maximal responsiveness (65% decrease of
V(max)) and sensitivity (2.6-fold increase of ED50)
compared with adipocytes cultured in medium containing a
low concentration of glucose and no insulin.  This
reflects insulin resistance of glucose transport.  In
contrast, both responsiveness and sensitivity of glucose
transport toward stimulation by glimepiride were only
marginally reduced in insulin-resistant adipocytes (15%
decrease of V(max); 1.2-fold increase of ED(50)) versus
control cells.  Glimepiride, in combination with glucose
and glutamine during the primary culture, caused
desensitization of the glucose transport system toward
stimulation by insulin, but to a lesser degree than
insulin itself (50% reduction of V(max); ninefold
increase of ED(50)).  Again, the maximal responsiveness
and sensitivity of glucose transport toward stimulation
by glimepiride were only slightly diminished.  The
presence of glimepiride during primary culture did not
antagonize the induction of insulin resistance of glucose
transport.  The stimulation of glucose transport in
insulin-resistant adipocytes by glimepiride is caused by
translocation of glucose transporters from low-density
microsomes to plasma membranes as demonstrated by
subcellular fractionation and immunoblotting with anti
-GLUT1 and anti-GLUt4 antibodies.  Immunoprecipitation of
GLUT4 from 32Pi-and [S-35]methionine-labeled adipocytes
revealed that the insulin resistance of GLUT4
translocation is accompanied by increased (three- to
fourfold) phosphorylation of GLUT4 in both low-density
microsomes and plasma membranes.  Short-term treatment of
desensitized adipocytes with glimepiride or insulin
reduced GLUT4 phosphorylation by approximately 70 and
25%, respectively, in both fractions.  We conclude that
glimepiride activates glucose transport by stimulation of
GLUT1 and GLUT4 translocation in rat adipocytes via
interference at a site downstream of the putative
molecular defect in the signaling cascade between the
insulin receptor and the glucose transport system induced
by high concentrations of glucose and insulin.  The
molecular site of glimepiride action is related to GLUT4
phosphorylation/dephosphorylation, which may regulate
glucose transporter activity and translocation.  These in
vitro findings implicate an additional mode of
sulfonylurea action in the improvement of glucose
tolerance of NIDDM patients."  The corresponding author
for this study is:  G Muller, Hoechst Ag Frankfurt Main,
Div Pharmaceut Res, Sbu Metab Dis H825, D-65926
Frankfurt, Germany.  For subscription information for
this journal contact the publisher:  Amer Diabetes Assoc,
1660 Duke St, Alexandria, VA 22314.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Rigas, J.R.; Francis, P.A.; Muindi, J.R.F.; Kris, M.G.; Huselton, C.;
Degrazia, F.; Orazem, J.P.; Young, C.W.; Warrell, R.P.  Constitutive
Variability in the Pharmacokinetics of the Natural Retinoid, All-Trans
-Retinoic Acid, and Its Modulation by Ketoconazole

SOURCE:   Journal of the National Cancer Institute,
December 1, 1993;85(23):1921-1926.
    According to the authors' abstract of an article
published in the Journal of the National Cancer
Institute, "Background:  All-trans-retinoic acid (all
-trans RA) induces complete remission in most patients
with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).  However,
continuous oral dosing results in progressive decline in
plasma drug concentrations, which is associated with
relapse and resistance to this retinoid.  We speculated
that the decline in drug levels, indicating acquired
resistance, resulted partly from inducible cytochrome
-P450 oxidative enzymes, which can catabolize all-trans
RA.  Purpose:  We studied the clinical pharmacology of
all-trans RA in cancer patients to determine possible
mechanisms of acquired resistance and evaluated the
potential for reversal by ketoconazole, an inhibitor of
cytochrome-P450 oxidative enzymes.  Methods:  Serial
plasma samples were obtained from 54 patients with APL or
advanced lung cancer after a single oral dose of all
-trans RA (45 mg/m(2)).  In the 34 patients with advanced
lung cancer, all-trans RA (45 mg/m(2)) was administered
twice daily for 4 weeks, and, on days 2, 28, and 29,
serial plasma samples were again obtained after a single
45-mg/m(2) dose.  One hour prior to drug administration
on days 2 and 29, a single oral dose (200-1200 mg) of
ketoconazole was administered.  Endogenous plasma
concentrations of all-trans RA and 13-cis-retinoic acid
were measured in a subset of these patients and in 11
with early-stage lung cancer.  Results:  The mean area
under the curve for plasma drug concentration times time
(AUC) for all-trans RA on day 1 varied substantially
among patients.  Compared with patients with APL, the 28
patients with advanced lung cancer who completed therapy
demonstrated significantly lower AUC levels on day 1
(P=.06); a subgroup with levels less than 300 ng/mL per
hour on day 1 had lower endogenous plasma all-trans RA
concentrations than patients with APL or early-stage lung
cancer or 14 normal subjects.  Following continuous oral
treatment, the mean day 28 AUC for all-trans RA was
significantly lower than that on day 1 (213 ng/mL per
hour versus 467 ng/mL per hour; P<.01), a decline
significantly attenuated by ketoconazole, which increased
the mean plasma all-trans RA AUC on day 29 to 375 ng/mL
per hour (P<.01).  Conclusion:  Reported variability for
the pharmacokinetics of all-trans RA may result from
disease-related or population-based differences in basal
catabolic rates influenced by genetic or environmental
factors.  However, the pattern of inducible catabolism of
all-trans RA is not disease specific.  Ketoconazole
attenuates this accelerated catabolism, suggesting that
oxidation by cytochrome-P450 enzymes is an important
pathway for both constitutive and induced pathways of
all-trans RA metabolism."  The corresponding author for
this study is:  JR Rigas, Cornell Univ, Mem Sloan
Kettering Canc Ctr, Dept Med, 1275 York Ave, New York, NY
10021.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Natl Cancer Institute, Journal
Subscriptions, Building 82,, Room 123, Bethesda, MD
20892.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Kuks, J.B.M.; Cook, M.J.; Fish, D.R.; Stevens, J.M.;
Shorvon, S.D.  Hippocampal Sclerosis in Epilepsy and
Childhood Febrile Seizures

SOURCE:   Lancet, December 4, 1993;342(8884):1391-1394.
    According to the authors' abstract of an article
published in the Lancet, "The connection between
hippocampal sclerosis and childhood febrile seizures
(CFS) is a contentious issue in the study of epilepsy.
We investigated 107 patients with drug-resistant epilepsy
by high-resolution volumetric magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI).  20 had a history of CFS, 45 had focal (26) or
diffuse (19) hippocampal volume loss (HVL).  The
frequency of CFS was significantly (P<0.001) higher in
the patients with HVL, especially of the diffuse pattern,
compared to other epileptic patients without HVL and to
the general population.  Furthermore, the severity of HVL
was greatest in those with a history of CFS.  No other
clinical or demographic features were associated with
either a history of CFS or HVL.  The frequency of CFS in
patients with other structural congenital causes of
epilepsy did not differ from that in a general
population.  Although these findings show that
hippocampal sclerosis is strongly associated with a
history of CFS, they do not indicate whether this is a
causal relationship.  If CFS do cause some cases of
hippocampal sclerosis, this can not be the only
mechanism, as 64% of those with HVL gave no history of
CFS.  As diffuse HVL is more strongly associated with a
history of CFS than focal HVL, it is also possible that
CFS convert pre-existing congenital focal abnormalities
into diffuse hippocampal sclerosis.  Given the
possibility that CFS may cause hippocampal damage and
epilepsy, they require urgent medical intervention."  The
corresponding author for this study is:  DR Fish, Natl
Hosp Neurol & Neurosurg, Queen Sq, London WC1N 3BG,
England.  For subscription information for this journal
contact the publisher:  Williams & Wilkins, 428 E Preston
St, Baltimore, MD 21202.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Lepage, P.; Devault, A.; Gros, P.  Activation of the
Mouse mdr3 Gene by Insertion of Retroviruses in
Multidrug-Resistant P388 Tumor Cells

SOURCE:   Molecular and Cellular Biology, December
1993;13(12):7380-7392.
    According to the authors' abstract of an article
published in Molecular and Cellular Biology, "In
multidrug-resistant (MDR) derivatives of the mouse
lymphoid tumor P388, the emergence of MDR is associated
with overexpression and transcriptional activation of the
mdr3 gene, either in the absence of (P388/VCR-10) or
concomitant with (P388/ADM-2) gene amplification.  In
both instances, Northern (RNA) blotting analyses have
suggested the presence of altered mdr3 transcripts in
these cells, possibly originating from novel
transcription initiation sites.  The mechanisms
underlying mdr3 overexpression in these cells have been
investigated.  In P388/VCR-10 cells, Southern blotting
analyses together with genomic DNA cloning and nucleotide
sequencing have demonstrated the presence of an intact
mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) within the boundaries of
intron 1 of mdr3.  cDNA cloning and nucleotide sequencing
indicated that this integration event results in the
synthesis and overexpression of a hybrid MMTV-mdr3 mRNA
which initiates within the U3 region of the 5' long
terminal repeat (LTR) of the provirus.  Consequently,
this mRNA lacks the normal exon 1 of mdr3 but contains
(i) MMTV LTR-derived sequences at its 5' end, (ii) a
novel mdr3 exon, mapping within the boundaries of intron
1 downstream of the MMTV integration site and generated
by alternative splicing, and (iii) an otherwise intact 3'
portion of mdr3 starting at exon 2.  A similar type of
analysis of P388/ADM-2 cells revealed that mdr3
overexpression in these cells is associated with the
integration of an intracisternal A particle (IAP) within
an L1Md repetitive element, immediately upstream of mdr3.
The IAP insertion results in the overexpression of hybrid
IAP-mdr3 mRNA transcripts that initiate within the 3' LTR
of the IAP and which contain IAP LTR-derived sequences at
the 5' end spliced 14 nucleotides upstream of the normal
exon 1 of mdr3.  Taken together, these results indicate
that independent retroviral insertions were the initial
mutagenic event responsible for mdr3 overexpression and
survival during drug selection of these cell lines.
Amplification of the rearranged and activated mdr3 gene
copy occurred during further selection for high-level
drug resistance in P388/ADM-2 cells."  The corresponding
author for this study is:  P Gros, McGill Univ, Dept
Biochem, Montreal H3G 1Y6, Quebec, Canada.  For
subscription information for this journal contact the
publisher:  Amer Soc Microbiology, 1325 Massachusetts
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20005-4171.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
DRUG RESISTANCE WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 17, 1994

Castro, I.; Bergeron, M.G.; Chamberland, S.
Characterization of Multiresistant Strains of Neisseria
gonorrhoeae Isolated in Nicaragua

SOURCE:   Sexually Transmitted Diseases, November
-December 1993;20(6):314-320.
    According to the authors' abstract of an article
published in Sexually Transmitted Diseases, "The
extensive use of antibiotics in Nicaragua raises concerns
about the resulting levels of susceptibility of
pathogenic bacteria.  This is the first study that
characterizes 18 strains of N. gonorrhoeae isolated in
Nicaragua (1989), for their antibiotic susceptibility.
Strains were predominantly of the auxotype/serotype
Proto/PIB.  There was no difference in
lipopolysaccharides profiles obtained after SDS-PAGE for
all strains.  Variable expression of the PII outer
membrane protein was not associated to antimicrobial
resistance.  All strains were susceptible to ceftriaxone,
spectinomycin, rifampin and cefoxitin.  The strains were
classified in five groups based on plasmid profiles.  A
total of 78% of the isolates were penicillinase-producing
(PPNG) and 22% were tetracycline-resistant N. gonorrhoeae
(TRNG).  One PPNG strain shelved a concomitant decreased
of penicillin binding to penicillin-binding protein 2.
These randomly chosen isolates of N. gonorrhoeae from
Nicaragua possess high levels of resistance to multiple
families of drugs."  The corresponding author for this
study is:  S Chamberland, Chul, Ctr Rech, Lab & Serv
Infectiol, St Foy G1V 4G2, Pq, Canada.  For subscription
information for this journal contact the publisher:  J B
Lippincott Co, 227 East Washington Square, Philadelphia,
PA 19106.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-10</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B022-95</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh57.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022503 text/html 508
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:22:46 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:25 GMT
Content-length: 321
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh57.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS REPORT via NewsNet <BR>
January 11, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-11</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA060-000326-B022-135</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh23.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022600 text/html 42103
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:23:39 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:11 GMT
Content-length: 41914
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh23.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet <BR>
JANUARY 5, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>Margaret Stanley, New Chief of CalPERS Chief Sees Room for More HMO Rate Cuts</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(281 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>AHA Goes Shopping With $40 Million To Spend</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(188 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Drug Store Revolt Scotches Medco Maryland Contract</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(478 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Three-year Caps on Fees Big Plus for Minnesota Coalition</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(536 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>New Texas Regulations for HMOs Mandate Extensive ER Out-of-Network Coverage</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(316 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>THE 25 HOTTEST AREAS FOR HMO GROWTH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(117 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Pinpointing Where HMOs Will Grow:  The Key Factors Depend on Market Size</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(412 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>High Pay for HMO Execs Blasted in New Study</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(267 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>SC Blues See Big Profits Selling Network Software</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(258 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>American Ambivalence:  For-profits Called Efficient But Not Community-minded</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(347 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>With a Quarter Million Persons To Cover, Colorado Coalition Starts with a Lot&nbsp;of Clout</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(529 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>Do Small Firms Have Sicker Workers?  Study Says 'No'</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(391 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>Article Proposes New Standards for Paying For Experimental Technology</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(168 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>HCFA Says Drop Certification As A HEDIS Measurement</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(303 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>Hearing Set Jan.  10 on Kentucky Rate Review Authority</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(247 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>States Curb Health Care Costs</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(381 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>Affiliates No More, Two Top Hospitals Merge</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(267 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>In Brief</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(411 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Margaret Stanley, New Chief of CalPERS Chief Sees Room for More HMO Rate Cuts


California HMOs are unlikely to see any letup in the aggressive practices that
put the California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS) in the
vanguard of the health care purchasing revolution now that Margaret Stanley is
taking over as head of the program.  Stanley, named to fill the vacancy
created by the departure last year of Tom Elkin (HAA 5/12, p.  1), doesn't buy
the complaint that the HMO rate reductions negotiated by her predecessor on
behalf of the million-person pool have sliced too close to the financial bone.
Quite the contrary.  "I have reviewed the loss ratios and it struck me that
there is some room" to cut, she says.

Stanley, who served as administrator of the Washington Health Care Authority
for the past seven years, has established herself as a price-maker rather than
a price-taker.  In Washington, she negotiated rate cuts with 19 HMOs and
point-of-service plans on behalf of a pool of 300,000 public employees and
their families.  Rates for those employees dropped an average of 6 percent in
1995 and will remain flat this year.  But Stanley, formerly an HMO executive
with Blue Cross of Washington and Alaska and Group Health Cooperative of Puget
Sound agreed to let HMOs in Washington raise rates 2.9 percent in 1997.

In Washington, Stanley was also head of Washington's Basic Health Plan.
Despite the widespread perception that the state gutted its health reform law
last year, lawmakers kept funds to subsidize purchase of the plan by 330,000
low-income uninsured residents and their children.  Enrollment in the plan has
risen from 52,000 a year ago to 90,000 as of Jan.  1.  "The access expansions
are dramatic," she notes.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

AHA Goes Shopping With $40 Million To Spend


The American Hospital Association (AHA) wants to spend up to $40 million
buying as many as four new businesses that provide services it can sell to
members.  An acquisition search notice says the association is looking for
publishing, education, insurance brokerage, financial service, software and
information system development, real estate management, third party
administration, temporary help, physician recruitment, market research,
medical transport, and outsourcing firms - virtually any part of the health
business except providing direct patient care or underwriting insurance.

To vault to the top of the AHA list, a company should have annual revenues of
at least $1 million, profit margins between 12 percent and 15 percent, and no
significant capital investment requirements.  The $40 million comes from the
sale last spring of AHA's liability reinsurance company, Health Providers
Insurance Co.  There is no timetable for the purchases, says AHA VP Rick Wade.
And, he says the possible purchases are "not related in any way" to current
downsizing at the AHA.  The association continues to try to sell its old
Chicago headquarters building, reduce staff, and consolidate efforts around
advocacy and education.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Drug Store Revolt Scotches Medco Maryland Contract


Trying to exercise too much muscle can be as ineffective as having too little.
That may be the lesson the health care industry can learn from the year-end
debacle in Maryland, which saw the state canceling a new pharmacy benefit
management (PBM) contract for its 92,000 employees and retirees - and an equal
number of dependents - just five days before it was to go into effect Jan.  1.
Much of the recent capping of health care outlays has come from big buyers
using their clout to extract bargain deals from suppliers, but the Maryland
story suggests that if the bargains are too great suppliers simply won't go
along.

Eli Lilly's PCS Health Systems had been the drug management contractor for
Maryland workers since 1992, but in September, after receiving bids from 11
PBM firms, the state decided to switch to Medco, the Merck & Co.  subsidiary.
The four-year, $266 million contract would have saved the state $60 million
compared with the PCS deal, estimated state budget director Marita Brown.

But those savings were based on reimbursements to participating drug stores
that were more than $2 per prescription below what the retailers had been
getting from PCS, and the retailers balked.  The three largest pharmacy chains
in the state - chains that fill Medco prescriptions under other contracts and
had therefore been included in the network Medco used to win the state
contract - announced they would not fill prescriptions under the plan.  They
said the reimbursement rate was so low that they would lose money on each
transaction.  In all, 600 outlets making up about 60 percent of the drug
stores in the state nixed participation.

Medco insisted that the rates it was planning to pay the stores, while below
what they had been getting, were in line with payments under similar plans in
other states.  The firm scrambled to find enough other outlets to provide
statewide coverage, but couldn't satisfy state officials in time.  "Medco
promised something it couldn't deliver," Brown complained; the attorney
general's office began looking into whether the PBM firm had made
misrepresentations about its delivery network in its September bid.  After
Maryland canceled the Medco contracts, officials told workers to keep dealing
with PCS, and began planning to garner new bids in early spring.  In the new
round, the state may demand that bidders show contracts at the bid price with
the outlets they claim are in their networks.

But at the same time, state law enforcement officials began investigating the
decision by the big chains to reject the Medco business.  The question:  Were
the decisions arrived at individually, or were they the fruit of an unlawful
conspiracy among the chains?  Rite Aid Corp., with the largest number of
outlets in Maryland, owns Eagle Managed Care, one of the losing bidders for
the PBM contract.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Three-year Caps on Fees Big Plus for Minnesota Coalition


For some employer insurance buying coalitions, the pitch that closes a sale is
lower rates.  For some, it's that buying is made easy.  But for the Minnesota
Business Coalition, the feature that makes its insurance plan a real winner is
budgetability.  The fact that a company that signs up now has a guaranteed
rate cap through 1998 is what has allowed the program to almost double in size
in the year it has been in operation, say the top officials of the Employers
Assn.  (EA) and the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce, its two sponsoring
organizations.  The coalition now supplies insurance to 18,000 persons at 275
companies.

Of course, it's important that the rate guarantee is an attractive one.  When
the coalition began at the start of 1995, it had a contract with Allina Health
System's Medica HMO calling for 1996 rates to go up no more than 6.5 percent
and the hike in 1997 to be no more than 6 percent.  But when it emerged in
December from negotiations with Allina, EA's James Mulrooney says, "there was
very powerful news:  we had beat the cap."  In fact, rates are going up only
4.9 percent this year.  And Allina promised that the 1998 rates will be no
more than 6 percent above 1997's.

An employer doesn't get an immediate bargain when it joins the coalition.  Its
initial rates are based on the demographic characteristics and claims
experience of its workforce.  But in all subsequent years, all those covered
are treated as part of the same pool, and any year-to-year increases are a
uniform percentage from that initial rate.  A company must sign on for at
least three years, and promise to pick up for its workers at least half of the
total cost.  Almost all of the coalition participants offered health coverage
before, and a substantial number - close to 20 percent - have more than 100
employees.

The coalition was born when Prudential, which had long sold a health plan to
EA members, in mid-1994 announced it would no longer offer a managed care
product in the Twin Cities.  EA sifted through bids from other plans, and
picked Medica, but at the same time decided it would be in a stronger
bargaining position if it teamed up with the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce.

Two Medica plans are available; one uses a broad 6,000-doctor network and no
gatekeeper, the other has a much more limited choice of physicians and
requires that all referrals to specialists be from a primary care provider.
To get into the coalition plan, a business must be a member of one of the two
groups.  The coalition itself imposes no fees; the work is done by staffers of
the two business organizations.

In addition to the three-year rate cap, the other demand from the coalition
was that the winning HMO keep up a constant program of health education
efforts for enrollees.  Much of that effort last year was dedicated to
profiling workers to pinpoint just which topics would produce the biggest
payoff in holding down health care outlays.  That produced the priority list
for this year's program:  back pain, stress, heart disease, and smoking
cessation.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

New Texas Regulations for HMOs Mandate Extensive ER Out-of-Network Coverage


Texas is a fertile ground for the growth of managed care.  A new report by
InterStudy (see below) rates Galveston as the small market with the greatest
HMO growth potential, and spotlights Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Ft.  Worth,
Lubbock, Amarillo, and Waco as other comers.  But as of Jan.  1, plans eyeing
those markets must cope with new insurance regulations from the state Dept.
of Insurance.  The regulations were developed on orders from Gov.  George W.
Bush (R) after he vetoed as "too much government regulation" HMO restrictions
passed by the legislature.

The most controversial part of the new rules covers reimbursement for
emergency services from out-of-network providers.  Not only is Texas requiring
that plans cover all medical examinations performed by emergency care
providers and all services to stabilize an emergency condition, but it is also
mandating HMOs okay coverage of post-stabilization services -thereby closing
the option of later denying coverage for doctor-approved treatment.  This,
complains Geoff Wurzel, executive director of the Texas HMO Assn., undercuts
the goal of reducing unnecessary use of emergency rooms and "could pull the
primary care doctor out of the role of directing the care of his or her
patient."

The new regulations also demand that plans provide enrollees policy outlines
"in a readable and understandable format" that detail:

* services covered, including limitations and exclusions, * how members can
obtain treatment when they are away from their hometowns, * preauthorization
requirements, and * appeals procedures.

The new regulations also give bargaining muscle to doctors who want to sign up
with a reluctant HMO - although less than the advocates of an any willing
provider provision had hoped for.  The HMO does not have to accept an
applicant, but does have to explain in writing why it has said "no" and make
available any economic profiling data that played a part in that decision.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

THE 25 HOTTEST AREAS FOR HMO GROWTH


RANK MARKET

1 Galveston TX

2 Springfield IL

{3 Cedar Rapids IA

{3 Lubbock TX

{3 Ft.  Smith AR

{3 Biloxi MS

7 Merced CA

{8 Redding CA

{8 Cumberland MD

{8 Ft.  Collins CO

{8 Florence SC

{8 Roanoke VA

{8 Wheeling WV

{8 Amarillo TX

{15 Boston

{15 Long Island NY

{15 Philadelphia

{15 St.  Louis

{19 New York City

{19 West Palm Beach FL

{19 Albany NY

{19 Springfield MA

{19 Jamestown NY

{19 Vineland NJ

{19 Gainesville FL


Souce:  InterStudy's Regional Market Analysis





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Pinpointing Where HMOs Will Grow:  The Key Factors Depend on Market Size


Managed care penetration continues to be spotty around the country, with
wildly different rates of HMO membership in what might seem to be similar
markets.  But the longer the plans operate, the easier it is for analysts to
pinpoint the factors that make an area ripe for rapid HMO growth.  A new set
of calculations from InterStudy, the Minneapolis-based group that has been
following the industry since 1973, produces a list of the hot targets for HMO
expansion.  The list ranges from markets that already have a lot of patients
in managed care - such as Sacramento CA and Rochester NY, where penetration is
more than 50 percent - to cities where the concept now barely has a toehold.

Everywhere, plans that are already successful in keeping down the days of
hospitalization per 1,000 enrollees are poised for zesty growth.  That's the
situation in Los Angeles, Albany, and Jersey City, for example.  Equally
important is the plan proving that it gives adequate care to those who do need
to go to the hospital:  the higher the average length of stay, the higher the
potential for HMO growth (a factor deemed important in the healthy projections
for such markets as St.  Louis, Pittsburgh, and Newark).

But perhaps the most significant InterStudy finding is that major growth
stimulants are different in different sized markets:

In big cities, the fact that HMOs have already garnered a big chunk of the
population is likely to lead to more growth.  HMOs that have ties to preferred
provider organizations (PPO) already established in the market are good bets
for growth, but it is actually a deterrent to HMO signups for the managed care
plan to be affiliated with an indemnity insurer that is successful in the
market.

In medium-sized cities, what counts is competition.  If there are more than
two competing plans, it inhibits growth; it is especially inhibiting if the
rival already has a big market share.  And it is a deterrent if the HMO is
affiliated with a PPO.  But the presence of for-profit plans spurs further HMO
growth.

In smaller towns, the key issue is whether those enrolled in public programs
are already in HMOs; if there's a popular Medicare managed care plan and if a
significant number of Medicaid participants are in HMOs, rapid growth can be
expected.  Here, it is the presence of not-for-profit plans that is an
indicator that the market will take off.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

High Pay for HMO Execs Blasted in New Study


When doctors set out to set up their own managed care organizations, they
always say that one advantage the plans will have is that they will not pay
the kind of salaries that insurers pay the executives who run their HMOs.  Now
the doctors have gotten some support from a survey of executive compensation
that finds that in fact those at the top of commercial health insurance
companies do take home disproportionately high pay.  The report from Graef S.
Crystal, a compensation specialist who has long complained that many public
companies pay their top brass too much, also spotlights pharmaceutical and
biotechnology firms as paying chief executives far more than other types of
companies of similar size and performance pay their counterparts.

Crystal began with a three-year pay average - including salary, stock options,
bonuses, and all other forms of compensation - of the CEOs of 896
publicly-traded businesses.  About 40 percent of the differences he found
could be attributed to company size or to rewards given brass who had boosted
their corporation's dividends or stock prices.  The rest he attributed to
industry practices.  As a group, those running health insurance companies got
80 percent above the average for all businesses of their size and track
records - a figure at least partially explained by the heavy use of stock
options as compensation and the escalating stock prices since the beginning of
the study in 1992.  The $6.1 million a year made by Foundation Health CEO
Daniel D.  Crowley was calculated by Crystal to be 277 percent above the
average for its group.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

SC Blues See Big Profits Selling Network Software


For tyro networks of hospitals and physicians to be truly integrated, they
need ways to communicate treatment and financial information quickly and
reliably.  And Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South Carolina is eyeing that
need as a potential moneymaker.  Within months, the insurer expects to roll
out, through its Companion Technologies subsidiary, software that will
integrate hospital computer systems and the practice management systems of
affiliated doctors into an existing South Carolina Health Information Network.
The next step:  licensing the software in North Carolina, Kentucky, Florida,
and Texas, where Companion already has a major market presence.  Hookup and
transaction fees will be other sources of revenue.

The existing network already links every hospital in South Carolina and 60
percent of the doctors.  It allows providers to submit claims electronically
to virtually any payer, and get answers to questions about patient eligibility
and the status of pending claims.  The next step is to add an automated
utilization review system that will give providers access to the Blues'
treatment protocols and automatic okays for admissions and stay continuations
that fit within those protocols.

For integrated delivery networks, Companion promises additional services.  For
instance, the plan will store information stripped from detailed billings,
patient statements, and claim forms for use by customer service
representatives at the providers' offices.  When a patient calls with a
billing question, the representative can pull that information from the Blues'
mainframe computer and have it presented on one screen.  "That's a big-time
productivity enhancement," says Companion marketing vice-president David Ward.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

American Ambivalence:  For-profits Called Efficient But Not Community-minded


In the first week of November 1995, Louis Harris & Associates conducted
telephone interviews with a randomly-selected representative 1,007 adults
across the country to gauge their perceptions - not their knowledge - of
ownership trends in the health care industry.  Respondents correctly spotted
the trend towards more and more hospitals and health plans being in the hands
of for-profit corporations and decried the development, but admitted that it
made little difference in their own selection decisions.  Here is an excerpt
from the report on the results by the Kaiser Family Foundation, which funded
the survey:

Americans generally believe for-profit care organizations, whether hospitals,
HMOs or other health insurance plans, are more efficient and provide a better
quality service than their not-for-profit counterparts, but they also think
for-profits are less community-oriented and more costly for the individual
consumer, according to new survey findings reported by the Kaiser Family
Foundation.  The survey also finds that most Americans perceive a trend
towards for-profit health care to be underway in this country and a majority
(54%) believe this to be a "bad thing" for health care.  A quarter (24%) think
the increase in for-profit health care doesn't matter very much and 19% say it
is a "good thing" for health care in this country.

When it comes to making decisions about their own health care, however, the
largest group - 46 percent of Americans - say an organization's profit status
doesn't make much of a difference in who they "trust to provide [them] with
high quality health care at a reasonable price."  Almost equal percentages
specify a preference for not-for-profit (26%) as do for for-profit (25%).

"This data illustrates the ambivalence that exists on the part of the public
toward for-profit and not-for-profit health care.  Americans want health care
organizations to be efficient and responsive, and in that way 'business-like,'
but at the same time they don't want them to be 'like other businesses' for
fear of higher costs and community interests being sacrificed," said Mark D.
Smith, MD, MBA, executive vice-president, Kaiser Family Foundation.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

With a Quarter Million Persons To Cover, Colorado Coalition Starts with a Lot
of Clout


The campaign begun last spring to lure Colorado's biggest employers back into
an affiliation with the Colorado Health Care Purchasing Alliance (HAA, 3/24,
p.3) didn't work.  The big companies, after nine months of meetings, decided
that they could benefit from being part of a coordinated attack on health
coverage issues, but that they should have their own group with no formal ties
to the Alliance.

That new organization, called the Colorado Business Group on Health (CBGH),
includes the state, the Denver public school system, and 10 big companies,
including Lockheed Martin, U.S.  West, Norwest Banks, and the one big firm
that had been a faithful backer of the Alliance:  Coors Brewing Co.  Together
they spend just over $400 million providing health care coverage to 250,000
Coloradans.

The 12 announced formation of the group last month, but have yet to
incorporate or select officers.  CBGH ads for an executive director will
appear in Denver newspapers next week.  "We'd like someone who has some
knowledge of the local health plans and providers and a real good
understanding of the local markets," says U.S.  West Health Benefits Manager
Patricia Theno, whose invitation in March to Patricia Powers, head of the
Pacific Business Group on Health (PBGH), to speak to Colorado companies kicked
off the talks that led to the formation of the new group.  Some of the
companies that showed up for the Powers presentation, such as Safeway and IBM,
have not joined CBGH yet.  The current members say that they are welcome, but
that the present members are willing to put up enough money to make the new
coalition run:  they aren't going to spend any energy recruiting additional
members.

CBGH has formed what it calls a "strategic partnership" with PBGH, where U.S.
West and Lockheed are already active participants.  Initially, that
partnership means that the Colorado group will borrow PBGH's structure and
some of its projects (for instance, on encouraging preventive care and
developing performance standards) and jointly participate with the West Coast
group on its annual survey pinpointing the value of the health care delivered
by each participating health plan.  Eventually the Colorado group plans to
negotiate with insurers on behalf of its members, hammering out prices but
leaving it up to each employer to decide which plan or plans to offer its
workers.  But that's not likely to happen until the 1998 plan year.

The state's biggest companies pulled out of the Alliance in the 1980s, when it
decided to operate as a purchasing cooperative.  The Alliance had hoped to
develop some sort of affiliate membership that would get the big boys back in
its fold, but the CBGH members continued to look at the Alliance as a grouping
of small businesses that didn't address what they saw as the very different
needs of large firms.  "Many cities have more than one purchaser coalition -
one for larger employers, another to represent small business," the group
explained in a fact sheet issued with the announcement of its formation.  But
both groups promise that they will work together on some projects, such as
member satisfaction surveys and lobbying in the state legislature.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Do Small Firms Have Sicker Workers?  Study Says 'No'


One of the reasons behind the formation of health insurance purchasing
cooperatives for small employers is the prohibitive rates quotes some such
firms receive when they go out on their own to buy policies.  Those high rates
are based, in part, on the belief by insurers that even when all other factors
are equal workers in such firms are higher risks than those who work for big
employers.  That's hooey, say the authors of a report published in the winter
issue of Health Affairs.

The study was conducted on a huge database:  20.5 million records on 1.4
million persons covered by the Blues of western Pennsylvania over the three
years ending Dec.  31, 1990.  Those enrollees got their coverage through firms
that bought insurance for 1 to 18,730 persons; about 95 percent of the
employers had 50 or fewer persons enrolled.

EEEEEE

oEEEEEE- those with no more than 10 persons covered by the Blues - did have
higher than average medical costs:  $992 compared with an overall average of
$916.  But employees of the very biggest companies (those with over 1,000
subscribers) also had high costs:  an average of $987.  Those differences
could be entirely explained by differences in the insured populations at such
firms - both had a higher proportion of workers over age 55.

The authors of the study - a team led by Wanda Young, founder of the
International Center for Health Services Research in Pittsburgh - do admit
that "small businesses do in fact post greater financial risks to insurers -
that is, their health care costs are less stable and thus harder to predict
with sufficient accuracy for firm-specific experience rating."  But the answer
to that, they argue, is a community rating approach which lumps large numbers
of companies together.  Of the 28,990 employers in the database, 65 percent
would have paid more under community rating - but the amount of their
subsidization would have been far less than the savings given the other 35
percent.

Even a small increase for firms with healthier employees is a problem however,
warns Health Insurance Assn.  of America VP Edward Neuschler.  He says that
since "so many small employers are right at the margin, 'Can I afford this or
not?' that's a prescription for driving healthy lives out of the market."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Article Proposes New Standards for Paying For Experimental Technology


Health plans are being offered a compromise solution to the growing
contentious problem of when to rate an innovative medical technology no longer
experimental and therefore reimbursable.  A proposal to appear in a
forthcoming issue of Health Affairs suggests that health plans write into
their policies this bargain:  They will pay the costs of new technologies,
although they are still experimental, if they are part of a well-designed
trial, but only if the manufacturers agree that the devices will not be
available outside the trial.

A new approach is necessary because with government limiting its support for
assessment of medical technology, health plans are becoming the "control
valves" determining which new ideas are accepted, says Sean Tunis, MD, former
director of the health program at the now-defunct federal Office of Technology
Assessment and an author of the article.  Yet health insurance is "an
increasingly stressed, very competitive, over-stretched industry that doesn't
have the tools or capacity to make those kinds of decisions," he says.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

HCFA Says Drop Certification As A HEDIS Measurement


The widespread acceptance of the Health Care Employer Data & Information Set
(HEDIS) of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) is not without
its attendant problems.  NCQA is now under pressure to back off on at least
one key measure because managed care plans, eager for a good HEDIS rating, are
being too diligent about responding to it.

At least that is the view of the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA),
which is working with NCQA to develop by January 1997 a third generation HEDIS
that can be used by Medicare recipients as well as the business buyers of
health coverage that now constitute HEDIS's primary audience.  Under fire from
HCFA:  the use of board certification as a measure of the competence of the
doctors on an HMO panel.

That criterion, HCFA persuaded the Medicare subcommittee of NCQA's Committee
on Performance Measure- ment, at least as applied to primary care physicians,
is guilty of exacerbating the shortage of such gatekeepers available through
HMOs.  Many plans, says Jeffrey Kang, chief medical officer of HCFA's Office
of Managed Care, translated the HEDIS measure into an absolute requirement
that all doctors who sign up for participation in an HMO must have board
certification.  That excludes many good doctors and makes it tougher for
Medicare recipients to choose a plan with an easy-to-reach primary care
provider.

The core problem:  While virtually everyone agrees that there are other
measures of quality - such as getting continuing education and even having
demonstrated competence - none of them are as easily determined as whether or
not a doctor is board certified.  And buyers of health coverage - the
companies HEDIS was designed for - want to assure their workers that they are
being sent to board-certified doctors, according to NCQA VP Cary Sennett.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Hearing Set Jan.  10 on Kentucky Rate Review Authority


Kentucky officials have a Jan.  10 hearing date on their motion to toss out of
court a suit filed by HMOs who fear state insurance regulators may order them
to lower 1996 premiums.  The state insurance commissioner is reviewing the
sharply higher rates insurers are charging following implementation of the
state's 1994 reform law, and needs dismissal of the suit to order any changes
based on that review.

The commissioner ordered the review following complaints by some state workers
about rates they're paying through the Kentucky Health Purchasing Alliance.
However, the review covers all rates in the state, both inside and outside the
alliance.  Departing Gov.  Brereton Jones (D) charged late last year that
insurer rates were far higher than they needed to be to cover added costs
imposed by the 1994 reforms (HAA 12/8).  Jones ordered insurers to refile
rates by Dec.  11, triggering the suit by the Kentucky Assn.  of HMOs.

Robert Quirk, KAH President, tells HAA that although the state has authority
to review rates and reject unreasonable charges, it can't actually set rates.
Quirk says the commissioner in effect is setting rates by specifying in the
ongoing review that they can't vary by more than 10 percent from a specified
figure.

In addition to fighting for lower rates, state officials are bracing for an
attempt in the legislature to exempt university and local government workers
from a requirement that public sector workers purchase coverage through the
Alliance.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

States Curb Health Care Costs


For the first time in 10 years, the increase in the cost of health benefits
provided to state employees under indemnity plans was less than the medical
care components of the Consumer Price Index (CPI).  The annual survey by Segal
Co., a benefits consulting firm, found that in 1995 the average total monthly
cost for family coverage for state workers was $448.29 a month, up just 1.95
percent from the 1994 average.  Just over half the states reported no increase
at all in the cost of the coverage.  Overall hikes for employee-only and
retiree-only coverage were also low, although the rise in the cost of covering
retirees and their dependents was higher than the CPI.

As in previous years, costs varied widely between the more generous states and
those with less lush benefits.  Michigan's costs, at $800.99 per month per
family, were far higher than any other state's; Montana's $289, while $20 more
than its 1994 costs, was still the lowest in the nation.  There were also
dramatic regional variations in the percentage of the total cost absorbed by
the state.  In the Northeast and the West, many states pick up the entire
cost, while in the South the burden falls heavily on employees.

Nationwide, 35 percent of state employees are enrolled in health maintenance
organizations, with the portion amounting to more than 80 percent of the
workers in Arizona and California, but fewer than 5 percent in North Dakota,
Idaho, and Connecticut.

In many jurisdictions, the state buys coverage for a lot of public sector
employees not on its own payroll.  In Georgia, for instance, in addition to
its 65,200 state government workers, the state buys coverage for 130,600
public school teachers.  In North Carolina, only 28 percent of the workers in
the state pool are actually state employees.  Segal's Clark Yaggy and Daniel
W.  Jackson write, "We can see a continuation of the relatively new trend for
state health benefits plans to include other public employers.  State employee
plans have always been among the largest in their states, and the increased
negotiating clout produced by their representation of large numbers of
employees has not escaped the notice of legislators and others seeking to
solve some of the cost pressures of smaller public entities."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

Affiliates No More, Two Top Hospitals Merge


Can hospitals realize the efficiency benefits of size through affiliations
that let each keep its own separate identity?  Two of the premier institutions
in St.  Louis have decided the answer is no.  After three years of working
together under an umbrella health plan, Barnes Hospital and Jewish Hospital
have agreed to a full-fledged merger.  At the beginning, the combined
29-member board will have co-chairs.  The philanthropic foundations that
support the two hospitals will also be combined into one.

Links between the two institutions are longstanding:  Barnes was founded as a
teaching affiliate of the Washington University medical school in 1914 and
Jewish affiliated with Washington in 1964.  Since its creation in 1992, their
jointly-owned Barnes-Jewish Health System has rapidly expanded, merging with
Christian Health Services and forging ties with Missouri Baptist and St.
Louis Children's.  The health system includes 5,000 beds and provides close to
30 percent of the inpatient care in the St.  Louis market.

But the halfway house of affiliation wasn't enough, the brass at both
institutions decided.  There was still too much duplication.  With the merger,
the medical staff will be fully integrated and clinical services can be
realigned by dropping some services offered by both institutions.  The first
project of the merged Barnes-Jewish Hospital will be to build new cancer care
and outpatient centers.

Also in St.  Louis, United HealthCare agreed to sell its 31,000-member
MetraHealth HMO to Principal Health Care.  United had to get rid of the HMO to
get approval of its merger with MetraHealth.  Principal already owns a St.
Louis plan with 18,000 members.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HEALTH ALLIANCE ALERT via NewsNet
JANUARY 5, 1996

In Brief


Two of the savviest investors in the health care industry have turned their
attentions to behavioral care.  Richard Rainwater, a co-founder of Columbia
Hospital and an investor in the HCA leveraged buyout in 1989, and Columbia/HCA
board member Darla Moore together are buying a 12.3 percent stake of Magellan
Health Services, formerly known as Charter Medical, which manages behavioral
benefits for 12 million enrollees.

Beleaguered AHI Healthcare Systems, which integrates physicians into local
networks and negotiates HMO contracts for them, was hit by a suit from
stockholders claiming that when it went public it was not frank enough about
potential difficulties with its acquisition of the Lakewood Health Plan.  At
the same time, the company admitted that is larger-than-expected losses have
put in it default with its bank loan agreement.

Summit Medical Systems, which sells clinical outcomes database software, has
gotten its hands on a valuable new compilation.  The company signed a joint
venture agreement with Duke University to commercialize the information on
500,000 cardiovascular procedures on 95,000 patients, which Duke has collected
over 26 years.  The first products, expected to be on the market late this
year, are supposed to improve providers' ability to collect and analyze
clinical outcomes data.

The Rocky Mountain Heart Consortium shut down at the end of December, unable
to get the grants from Denver hospitals and other funding sources needed to
keep going.  In operation since 1991, the group's research projects focused on
the cost and outcomes of cardiovascular procedures in the state, sixth in the
nation in number of open-heart surgery programs.

Discounts negotiated by health insurers will be shared with enrollees under a
new Missouri law that went into effect Jan.  1.  Passed in response to a state
survey that showed many plans base the insured's copayment on usual and
customary charges, the new law requires that the split be of the actual
charge.

In markets with little managed care, hospitals are cutting costs just as
vigorously as those under pressure from HMOs, according to a report from the
Center for Healthcare Industry Performance Studies (CHIPS).  While hospitals
in markets with high managed care penetration continue to have, on average,
shorter lengths of stay and lower costs for most surgical procedures, the gap
is narrowing, CHIPS found.  In fact, for some procedures, such as cardiac
catheterization and excision of intervertebral disc, the average is actually
lower at hospitals in markets where there's little use of HMOs.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-12</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B009-319</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh61.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022654 text/html 35114
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:24:55 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:27 GMT
Content-length: 34925
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh61.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet <BR>
February 21, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>U.S. Attorney to Sue Some Hospitals&nbsp;In Metzinger Lab False Claims Case</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(443 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Experimental Device Repayment Sought;At Least One&nbsp;Criminal Case Expected</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(549 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Feds: Sutter Knew of Errors,Thought Policy Non-Binding</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(422 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>New Medicare Enrollment FormSeeks More Financial Data</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(363 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Providers: Medicaid Contractor Owes Millions for&nbsp;Claims</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(697 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Feds Target More HospitalsFor Attending MD Billing</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(358 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Whistleblower: Providers BoldIn Device Fraud Practices</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(419 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>Hospitals Say Blues ContractFacilitates `Network&nbsp;Leasing'</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(420 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>FTC OKs Urology Network;Shows Antitrust Fears Persist</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(273 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>COMPLIANCE STRATEGIES</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>Take These Steps to Avoid Medicare Payment Suspension</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(403 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>Try Team Method in Audits for Attending MD Billing Errors</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(416 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

U.S. Attorney to Sue Some Hospitals
In Metzinger Lab False Claims Case


Some hospitals reportedly will face false claims
charges this week, as the government expands the scope of a case in
which an outside consultant allegedly suggested questionable
billing practices. Experts say the feds will hit consultants hard
if their goal is to up Medicare revenue, so make sure lab claims
are backed by documentation.

The government this week is expected to sue up to 19 hospitals,
adding them to a pending false claims lawsuit the feds filed last
year against the Metzinger Associates billing consultants.
The feds will claim the hospitals, on Metzinger Associates' advice,
billed Medicare for clinical lab work that wasn't needed or wasn't
provided as charged. Dozens of other hospitals that used Metzinger
Associates are expected to settle false claims allegations after
doing self-audits at the government's request (HBLS 7/19/95, p. 1).
According to sources, the U.S. attorney in Phildelphia says it
chose which hospitals to sue based on: (1) their size; (2) the
amount of evidence the feds have against the hospital; (3) the
degree of cooperation in the federal investigation; (4) how much
Metzinger earned based upon payments received from the hospital;
and (5) the nature of voluntary disclosure of misconduct to the
government.

The latest development in the case has implications for consulting
firms and the providers who use them, because the Metzinger lawsuit
opened a Pandora's box of potential false claims cases over
squeezing revenue from Medicare.

"The Metzinger Associates case will prompt the government to review
other consultants who are providing the same services, or other
types of services, when the arrangements are structured for revenue
enhancement instead of compliance with governmental regulations,"
says one expert, who asked that his name not be used.

The insider says consultants should:
o       "Raise their internal quality
control programs to a much higher level to assure their
recommendations comply with third-party documentation and billing
requirements;"
o       "Have documentation in their files
to support recommendations;" and
o       Do more than interview hospital
personnel to determine compliance with third-party regulations.
Review underlying documents to corroborate the information gathered
inthe interview process. "Talk is cheap," the expert notes.
"Looking at underlying documents to support what personnel says and
keeping a set of documents in the consultant's file are important
in the event the government challenges the consultant's
recommendations."

For example, if the hospital bills for a five-part complete blood
count with an automatic differential, verify that the laboratory
has the capacity and the equipment to perform such tests, says
another billing expert.
The two executives who ran Metzinger Associates, Harry Metzinger
and William Ritter, are slated for a trial this spring. They deny
wrongdoing. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Experimental Device Repayment Sought;At Least One
Criminal Case Expected


Hospitals need to set up a system to make sure they
do not bill Medicare for non-reimburseable, breakthrough
experimental devices and related services. Meanwhile, the feds have
taken the first step to recoup pre-November 1995 payments for the
devices.

Some hospitals are starting to get letters from the government
requesting records of Medicare claims for experimental devices and
related medical care so the government can figure out how much
hospitals allegedly owe Medicare because HCFA says the devices
weren't covered before Nov. 1, 1995, sources say.
The government's next step will be to actually demand a specific
amount of money back, a source says.
And in a new revelation, every hospital scrutinized by the feds for
improper Medicare claims for experimental medical devices allegedly
submitted these claims, at least half knew the claims were
inappropriate, and almost 30 hospitals tried to cover it up, a top
official from the HHS Inspector General's Office told a Senate
panel last week.
Deputy IG Jack Hartwig, testifying at a Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations hearing, outlined the government's
strategy in dealing with alleged improper billing for experimental
devices:
(1) The IG and HCFA are calculating overpayments to providers and
plan to seek repayment (HBLS 1/24/96, p. 1);
(2) Evidence of alleged criminal conduct will be investigated;
(3) Fraud that has been identified is being addressed by Justice
(see story below); and
(4) The feds are addressing weaknesses in accounting and tracking
of investigational devices, in hospital oversight, and in obtaining
informed patient consent.
Physicians also are being probed on the issue.
To avoid further trouble over device billing, attorney Len Homer
advises hospitals to "have absolute controls so no billings are
submitted to Medicare for services involving [breakthrough]
investigational devices" not covered by Medicare. The FDA calls
breakthrough non-covered devices category A devices.
But hospitals still must submit "no pay" bills so Medicare can keep
track of care patients receive, even if it's not reimbursable, and
to reflect statistical changes in the cost report, says Homer, who
represents hospitals in the device case.
Plus, hospitals should "work out with beneficiaries [getting
category A devices] whether they will look to the beneficiary for
payments," which Homer says is legal if the patient is told in
advance and gives consent.
Also at the hearing, the Senate panel blasted HCFA and the IG for
not cracking down on Medicare payments for experimental devices
before HCFA began covering them. Subcommittee Chairman William Roth
(R-Del) displayed internal hospital memos that purportedly showed
some hospitals' knowledge of improper Medicare billing for
experimental devices.
In a memo on letterhead from Sutter Memorial Hospital in
Sacramento, an official wrote, "Clearly, by the letter of the law
we are at risk. However, there is obviously no communication
between the FDA and HCFA, which would easily allow HCFA to identify
the devices, and given the number of exemptions currently occuring,
I would think our overall risks are small."
Testifying at the hearing, the administrator who wrote the memo
denied he was admitting knowledge of wrongdoing.
In their defense, hospital officials at the hearing said Medicare
rules on this were fuzzy.
A University of Washington Medical Center executive said his
"belief was that HCFA's policy was not binding and was flexibly
enforced, and is amply supported by HCFA's own actions."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Feds: Sutter Knew of Errors,Thought Policy Non-Binding


A California hospital stays in Medicare, but pays more
than $1 million and agrees to a compliance plan to resolve
allegations it knew it wrongly billed Medicare for experi-mental
cardiac devices.

Sutter Memorial Hospital knew it wasn't entitled to Medicare
payments for experimental medical devices and was told this more
than once by its peer review organization, the prosecutor in the
case against Sutter told HBLS.
The Sutter health system in California last week became the first
hospital in the country to settle false claims allegations that it
billed Medicare for devices that lacked FDA premarketing approval
and therefore were not covered by Medicare.
In addition to paying the government $1.3 million, Sutter agreed to
a compliance plan to prevent and detect fraud in its organization.
"I think the Medicare billing rules were clear and not confusing,"
says Michael Hirst, chief of affirmative civil enforcement in the
Sacramento U.S. attorney's office and a prosecutor who worked on
the case.
Los Angeles attorney Russell Hayman, Sutter's outside counsel,
responded that "Sutter was unaware of manual provisions until about
the end of 1991. When they learned about the manual provisions,
they concluded it was non-binding - it was policy and not law - and
continued to bill. They regret that, and wish they had sought
clarification from the government prior to that time."
@SUBHEAD = Sutter Dropped from Whistleblower Lawsuit
The settlement notes that Sutter, as a Medicare provider, got at
least one copy of the Medicare manual provisions that says
procedures involving investigational devices are not reasonable and
necessary, and therefore not covered by Medicare.
Providers say the manual provisions are not official, that no
regulations were ever finalized disallowing such payments, and that
Medicare contractors knowingly reimbursed providers for such
devices for years.
HCFA started officially covering next-generation experimental
devices in November.
In return for settling, Sutter will not be thrown out of Medicare
and was dropped from the whistleblower-initiated false claims
lawsuit pending against a number of hospitals for billing Medicare
for experimental devices and related medical care.
But the settlement relates only to cardiac experimental devices,
Hirst notes, and the settlement frees only the hospital, not
physicians, from further legal problems related to investigational
devices.
Among the elements of Sutter's compliance plan:
(1) Hold training sessions on experimental device billing for
relevant fourth-year students, residents, staff physicians and
clerical employees;
(2) Include in new-employee orientations instruction on proper
billing; and
(3) Distribute written materials to all relevant physicians and
clerical staff stating Sutter's commitment to accurate billing.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

New Medicare Enrollment FormSeeks More Financial Data


Make room for Medicare's new enrollment form in your
business plan because filling it out will take a lot of time - and
you must certify in writing that the information is true.

HCFA will soon issue a new Medicare provider enrollment form that
asks providers for more detailed financial and other information to
prove they are qualified to bill Medicare.
"It's very extensive and people should take extreme care in filling
out the form because" they must certify at the end that everything
reported in the form is true, says attorney Anne Branan, with Broad
and Cassel.
Branan, of Fort Lauderdale, also suggests upper management complete
the form or review it - especially if your outside billing agency
fills it out for you.
The new form is part of HCFA's push to stop paying improper claims
on the front end, instead of paying wayward providers and getting
law enforcement to try to get the money back.
"The first step to ending pay-and-chase is to take a good look at
who comes into the system," says Judy Berek, special advisor on
fraud to HCFA Administrator Bruce Vladeck.

Manager, Subcontractor Data Demanded

Among other things, the form asks:

o        Whether providers use a billing
agency, and, if so, the agency's name, phone number, and employee
identification number. "Get that information from reliable sources
in the billing company," Branan advises.
o       Who is managing the organization,
and personal data on them, including Social Security numbers.
o       For independent physiological labs,
subcontractors' names and related information, such as their
Medicare numbers and, if they're doctors, what CPT codes they will
perform.

Completing the form "will be an overwhelming amount of work and
can't be approached in a haphazard manner," Branan says. "Count
this in your business plan."
This is another reminder for providers to make sure billing systems
churn out accurate claims and to install a compliance plan to
prevent and detect fraud, observes San Francisco attorney Paul
DeMuro. Apparently, HCFA feels "if they can develop a better form
or tracking system, they'll be able to use their statistical edits
and other tools" to sniff out fraud, he says.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Providers: Medicaid Contractor Owes Millions for
Claims


Providers say a company that has a risk-bearing contract for Massachusetts'
Medicaid managed mental health program owes them millions of dollars, so
the providers may sue.  The state has pledged to make sure providers get
any money they may be owed.

Massachusetts mental health providers are prepared to sue the
state's Medicaid managed mental health contractor over $6 million
to $9 million in allegedly unpaid claims, and the state has
promised that providers will get any money if it's owed them.
The providers, who may sue Mental Health Management of America for
breach of contract, say the contractor trapped them in a catch-22
to avoid paying claims for mental health and substance abuse
treatment. The contractor required that providers submit claims
within 90 days of service and put preauthorization numbers on
claims, then the contractor allegedly didn't furnish the
preauthorization numbers promptly enough for the providers to meet
the deadline.

Claims Processing `Not Their Strength'

"Claims processing was not [Mental Health Management's] strength,"
acknowledges Bruce Bullen, commissioner of the state Division for
Medical Assistance, which oversees Medicaid. There was a problem
with a claims backlog.
"We'll work this through with providers," Bullen says. "We'll make
sure [Mental Health Management] is responsible for complying with
the contract. But it doesn't mean we'll pay all claims."
He noted that Mental Health Management "performed in a superior
fashion in some areas, like quality management."
John Kahn, a lawyer representing Mental Health Corp. of
Massachusetts, an organization of 65 mental health agencies
allegedly owed money by Mental Health Management, agreed that
quality of care wasn't at issue. But he says providers worry when
contractors are rewarded, even indirectly, for keeping clinical
costs down. "The arrangement under which service providers have a
financial incentive not to maximize service is at the heart of the
concern about managed care programs," Kahn says.
Massachusetts did not renew Mental Health Management's Medicaid
managed care contract past June. And about a year ago, Mental
Health Management's parent company lost a contract in New Mexico.
In a letter to a Mental Health Management outside lawyer, Kahn asks
the contractor to process the providers' unpaid claims and suspend
troublesome edits related to prior approval, billing within 90
days, a 365-day payment appeals process, and claims identification
numbers.
Kahn says Mental Health Management hasn't yet met the providers'
demands, and, if necessary, they'll take the contractor to court.
At press time, the contractor did not respond to a request for an
interview. But the two sides are scheduled to meet next week.

State: Providers Will Get Money Owed Them

Mental Health Management of America, owned by First Financial
Management of Atlanta, got the Massachusetts managed care contract
for mental health and substance abuse treatment in 1992.
Mental Health Management broke new ground in providing
comprehensive managed mental health care to Medicaid, so there were
growing pains, says Ron Preston, HCFA associate regional
administrator. But that's not why Mental Health Management's
contract wasn't renewed beyond June, he maintains.
"Other applicants had more solid applications," Preston says.
Massachusetts Behavioral Health Partners won the bid.
Meanwhile, Massachusetts' mental health providers claim Mental
Health Management owes them money. "There's a lot of anxiety that
every bill is honored, and that's a reasonable concern. We want to
make sure [the contractor does] everything in compliance" as the
contract is closed out in June, Bullen says. He notes the state
agency is auditing the firm.
In the state contract, Mental Health Management was paid $11.5
million for administrative expenses under a risk-bearing contract
that allowed it to make up to $750,000 if they kept expenses in
line or shell out up to $750,000 if the company went over budget.
The first 92 cents of every dollar saved went to the state, and the
remaining 8 cents to Mental Health Management, since renamed First
Mental Health.
Because the firm's and providers' reimbursement pools were linked,
the less paid out in medical costs, the more the firm made under
the contract, Kahn says.
But Mental Health Management was "not unduly rewarded," Bullen
says. "There's always limited risk and limited savings. It doesn't
provide an incentive for overly restrictive clinical behavior."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Feds Target More HospitalsFor Attending MD Billing


You don't have to be a major teaching hospital to face
false claims problems over billing Medicare for attending
physicians supervising residents' work, as more Pennsylvania
hospitals have found out.

The feds have begun a broader false claims dragnet for attending
physician billing improprieties by sending letters to teaching
hospitals and faculty practice plans primarily in the Philadelphia
area.
The letters say the providers may have billed Medicare for work
done by residents, even though HCFA says it pays for that work
under hospital graduate medical education payments.
Some hospitals without substantial teaching affiliations will be
targeted, says John Foley, a Pennsylvania consultant who helps
hospitals comply with Medicare billing regulations.
The feds also reportedly want academic medical providers to hire
external auditors to scour records to determine how much exposure
there is for attending physician billing, says Foley, with Parente,
Randolph, Orlando, Carey & Associates (see Compliance Strategy).
The U.S. attorney's office in Philadelphia would neither confirm
nor deny the existence of the letters.

Case May Be Ripe for Self-Audit

Because documenting false claims for attending physician billing
would be labor-intensive and time-consuming for the government,
this case may be ripe for the type of self-audits for alleged
billing errors done at the government's behest in the Metzinger
Associates case.
Providers in that case agreed to have an independent audit and
submit the findings to the feds. In return, providers will refund
less to the government than they would pay in damages under the
federal False Claims Act.
Almost two months ago, the faculty practice plans at the University
of Pennsylvania struck a deal to pay $30 million to resolve
allegations of attending physician billing fraud lodged by the U.S.
attorney in Philadelphia (HBLS 12/20/95, p. 1).
HCFA says payment for work performed by residents is already
included in graduate medical education payments to hospitals and
faculty practice plans. Attending physicians can only bill Medicare
for work performed by residents when the attending physician is
physically present for "key portions" of the service.
HCFA formalized its position, initially taken in Intermediary
Letter 372, in regulations published in the Dec. 8 Federal
Register.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Whistleblower: Providers BoldIn Device Fraud Practices


The whistleblower in the experimental device false claims
lawsuit said the feds urged him to file it, which may weaken his
case. The feds deny doing so.

The providers who allegedly billed Medicare for experimental
devices knowing it was supposedly illegal were undaunted by the
threat of government retaliation, a former device industry
executive said at a Senate hearing last week.
The man, who is suing some providers on behalf of the government
under the whistleblower provision of the False Claims Act, told the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations some providers
allegedly risked patients' lives, tampered with files, and lied on
claims forms to make sure Medicare paid for their work - with
little fear of getting punished. The lawsuit claims providers
improperly billed for experimental devices and related medical
care. His identity remains shielded.
He noted that AMA and AHA, arguing that their members believed HCFA
had no hard-and-fast rule on the experimental device issue,
successfully pressured HHS to change coverage rules "and to get
[the feds] to back off on the investigation." And that, he said,
made some providers bold in the face of the government's warnings
against billing for experimental devices.
An AHA official said there was "a concerted effort on behalf of all
sectors of the health care field to promptly examine the issues
raised by this investigation and try to address them."
HCFA started officially paying for next-generation experimental
medical devices Nov. 1.
The whistleblower, who said he is "involved in the purchase and
billing loop for hospitals' use of experimental medical devices,"
alleged some hospitals and physicians: (1) falsely billed Medicare
for experimental automatic implantable cardiac defibrillators as
FDA-approved pacemakers; (2) billed Medicare for angioplasties when
they really did experimental atherectomies. To cover their tracks,
providers allegedly reinvaded patients' arteries, inserted a cheap
balloon, took an X-ray and put it in the patient file in case a
Medicare auditor checked; (3) removed patient consent forms from
files because they served as evidence the hospitals knew the
procedures were experimental; and (4) reused single-use-only
ablation and electrophysiology catheters.
The whistleblower says he "was asked by the HHS IG and Department
of Justice to come forward as a whistleblower and encouraged to
file a suit under the federal False Claims Act." Given that, the
lawyers defending the hospitals named in the false claims lawsuit
plan to contend the whistleblower is not the originator of the
allegations - a key requirement for winning such cases.
The feds denied asking the whistleblower to sue. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Hospitals Say Blues ContractFacilitates `Network
Leasing'


A silent PPO-like practice is one of a hospital group's
complaints about a new Blue Cross contract the state may review.
The Massachusetts Hospital Assn. has complained to the state about
a Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts contract that
includes something the hospital group says is akin to silent
discounting.

The Blues is offering a new provider contract for HMO, PPO,
indemnity and Medicare risk products.
The state attorney general has promised to look into the contract
provisions, and the state insurance division met with the Blues at
least once on the matter, says Andrew Dreyfus, hospital association
spokesman.
The association questions the legality of certain aspects of the
contract, including alleged:

o       Network leasing provisions that
allow Blue Cross to cut deals with other payers and require
providers to give to other insurers the same terms they give Blue
Cross. Dreyfus says the provision is similar to silent discounting.
In silent discounting, providers unwittingly give discounts to
indemnity patients whose insurers bought a PPO's negotiated
discounts with the providers.
o       Full-line forcing, which means
hospitals allegedly have to participate in all Blue Cross lines.
"The insurer won't let a hospital contract only with indemnity or
MediGap products," Dreyfus says.
o       A termination option that lets the
Blues kill a contract with a hospital if the hospital enters into
an arrangement with non-insurers, like employers.

Despite the complaints, 48 out of 54 hospitals have signed the
contract, notes Bob Brooks, Massachusetts Blue Cross' director of
health services contracting.
No network leasing is planned, and Blue Cross envisions renting its
network only to union health plans that already have third-party
administrative functions but need to rent a provider network, says
Maria Butler, counsel in the law department at the Blues.
Brooks notes that Blue Cross informed hospitals that it reserves
the right to rent its network, with 90 days notice to the hospital.
The hospital can opt out if Blue Cross doesn't live up to its
contractual terms.
Brooks acknowledges the product lines are negotiated all-or-nothing
with hospitals, but notes that hospitals can opt out of any line
without cause. He says the termination option merely lets the
insurer renegotiate rates if a hospital turns into a competitor.
Susan Grakowski, another counsel in the insurer's law department,
says Blue Cross is close to completing negotiations with the rest
of the hospitals. "We had an informational session with the
division of insurance" about the contract, but "we've heard nothing
from the AG's office," she says. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

FTC OKs Urology Network;Shows Antitrust Fears Persist


Limiting MD participation to under 30% and selling MD
services for capitation garners a urology network antitrust
approval.

In a deal that shows antitrust anxiety still prompts providers to
seek assurance that even routine deals won't be challenged under
antitrust laws, a Louisiana urology independent physician
association (IPA) got FTC clearance late last month.
Uronet of Louisiana, a limited liability company owned by a group
of New Orleans area urologists, asked the FTC for antitrust
approval to sell their services to managed care plans for
capitation.
The 19 urologist-owners of Uronet make up 22% of the urologists
practicing in the area. Uronet may add up to three more urologists
to the network if managed care plans want extra practice locations
or MDs with privileges at other hospitals. If that happens, the
percentage of urologists in Uronet would reach 26%, but the extra
urologists wouldn't be owners.
Uronet is non-exclusive, so its members could join other networks
and contract with assorted payers. Most of the owners are in
various managed care plans.
Uronet will use an agent, Physicians Health Corp., to negotiate
capitated contracts, which Uronet's medical director will approve.
Each member will decide separately whether to participate in the
contract. Members don't have to participate in any contract.
In a staff advisory opinion, Bob Leibenluft, assistant director of
the FTC Bureau of Competition, told Uronet it appears to qualify
for antitrust immunity under the FTC-Justice Department antitrust
safety zone for physician networks. The safety zone limits
non-exclusive networks to 30% of the MDs in the market.
Uronet also passed FTC antitrust muster because the MDs share
financial risk through capitation.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Take These Steps to Avoid Medicare Payment Suspension


Losing Medicare revenue even temporarily can be financially
devastating, so it's worth taking the "ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure" approach to preventing carriers and fiscal
intermediaries from suspending payments.
Medicare contractors may suspend provider or supplier payments to
recover alleged overpayments or for suspected fraud (HBLS 12/20/95,
p. 7).
Washington lawyer Irv Cohen recommends taking these steps to help
avoid situations that may prompt Medicare contractors to suspend
Medicare payments:
(1) Have a sound in-house claims processing policy, including
well-trained staff. "Most mistakes are made by staff who don't
understand the fine differences between what Medicare covers and
what Medicare doesn't cover," says Cohen, with Fulbright &
Jaworski.
(2) Carefully monitor changes in policies and other announcements
from Medicare carriers.
(3) Attend carrier training programs.
(4) If you're very risk-averse, avoid product lines, such as
incontinence supplies, that are under intense scrutiny for fraud
and abuse. One way to keep up on the government's investigative hot
buttons: Read the HHS inspector general's annual workplan, which
describes what will be targeted.
(5) Immediately respond to disallowances. Don't just write off a
minor disallowance without checking it out. It could be a tipoff to
future, larger disallowances. For example, a disallowance might
alert providers or suppliers to a coverage change that means
Medicare will pay for a medical supply only under one diagnosis
code.
(6) Promptly comply with carrier requests for more information
about a claim. "I've seen several suppliers not respond to the
carrier, [writing the disallowance off] as just one unpaid claim,"
Cohen says. "The suppliers [faced] a major disallowance or an
investigation because they failed to respond" to the carrier.
(7) Check whether an inquiry comes from the carrier's utilization
review or anti-fraud unit. If a fraud probe seems underway, notify
employees of how they should respond to contacts by investigators,
which may be made at their homes at night. Your lawyer can help
with this issue.
(8) Be on guard for unusual delays in Medicare reimbursement. "It
may be a sign of a prepayment review or other kind of review,"
Cohen says. "Early intervention gets the money flowing [again]
sooner - before you're on the verge of bankruptcy."
(9) Do internal audits to make sure billing practices are on the up
and up.
(10) Install a corporate compliance plan to prevent and detect
fraud and abuse, preferably before it gets out of hand, Cohen
suggests.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS & LEGAL STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 21, 1996

Try Team Method in Audits for Attending MD Billing Errors


With the feds ready to pounce on teaching hospitals or faculty
practice plans for improper billing for attending physician
services, academic providers should do a self-audit to get a handle
on legal vulnerability - and forensic accountants may be the
ingredient that makes the audit process work.
Millions of dollars are at stake, as evidenced by the $30 million
false-claims settlement the government struck with the faculty
practice plans at the University of Pennsylvania. The government
accused the providers of billing Medicare for attending physician
services when they were not physically present for work performed
by their residents (HBLS 12/20/95, p. 1).
Experts recommend you have outside counsel hire independent
auditors to do the audit.
"When you start to self-audit, make sure you have the right team
assembled to do this work," says consultant John Foley, with the
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., offices of Parente, Randolph, Orlando, Carey &
Associates.
A major player on the team is the forensic accountant who analyzes
financial data to help resolve disputes, such as alleged fraudulent
billing, business insurance claims and contract disputes.
"Everyone tends to send in nursing personnel or people familiar
with medical records or coding, but we don't believe that's the
largest part of the engagement. The largest part should be forensic
accountants," Foley contends.
Forensic accountants will meet with university personnel to outline
the work plan for the project. A proposed workplan should be
reviewed by the HHS inspector general, Foley advises.
"The IG has to bless any workplan in advance. One would not want
the firm"to do a lot of work and find out at the end of the day the
workplan was insufficient," he says.

Sample Used to Figure Error Rate

The forensic accountants will select a method for determining how
many errors were made in attending physician billing.
Once a sample selection method is set, statisticians will select
the claims that will be subject to the methodology.
The sample is then returned to forensic accountants, who work with
hospital staff on the whole review, Foley says.
Then coders, nurses and medical records staff will "wade through
the documentation to determine whether there's adequate
documentation" to justify the claims submitted for attending
physician services, he says.
If not, the sample's error rate is extrapolated to the entire
population of claims to calculate an overall error rate and
determine how much money must be refunded to Medicare. The final
report is given to the hospital's counsel to negotiate a settlement
with the feds.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-13</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B009-375</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh18.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022757 text/html 105633
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:25:26 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:09 GMT
Content-length: 105443
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh18.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet <BR>
January 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>RISK-SHARED OUTSOURCING WILL SOAR AS BUILD-OR-&nbsp;BUY SOLUTION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2781 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>WHAT YOUR OUTSOURCE PROVIDER MUST HAVE:</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(75 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>PUBLISH CAPITATION RATES, HMO PREMIUMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1226 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>=============</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>MOORE REGIONAL HOSPITAL IN GOLF-HISTORIC&nbsp;PINEHURST BREAKS SUCCESS RECORDS WITH ITS&nbsp;HEALTH AND FITNESS CENTER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(502 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>CHICAGO SEVEN FORM ONE OF CITY'S LARGEST&nbsp;INTEGRATED HEALTH CARE NETWORKS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(258 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>COLUMBIA-PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER OFFERS&nbsp;PLUSH GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(290 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATIONS URGED TO ADOPT FIVE&nbsp;STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(328 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>THE REVOLT AGAINST THE ONE-DAY STAY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1388 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>WOMEN'S HEALTH MARKED BY THEIR OWN HIGH-RISK&nbsp;BEHAVIOR AND PROVIDER NEGLIGENCE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(289 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>HALF OF AMERICANS NEVER COMPLETE ANTIBIOTIC&nbsp;THERAPY; BACTERIAL DRUG RESISTANCE MAY BE A&nbsp;CONSEQUENCE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(173 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>CARE FOR DYING AMERICANS NEEDS SUBSTANTIAL&nbsp;IMPROVEMENT, SAY RESEARCHERS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(128 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>A TRAGIC MISMATCH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(324 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>SPECIAL HELP FOR DOCTORS AND PATIENT FAMILIES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(221 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>GUIDELINES TO IMPROVE CARE FOR THE DYING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(82 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>WASHINGTON STATE HOSPITALS SHOW TREND TOWARD&nbsp;SICKER PATIENTS, SHORTER STAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(271 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>COMPUTERIZED PATIENT RECORDS SEEN AS BENEFICIAL&nbsp;TREND BY MAJORITY OF AMERICANS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(269 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>EXPLOSIVE GROWTH IN MEDICARE DEMANDS NEW&nbsp;DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS, DIFFERENT MARKETING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(726 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>NCQA LAUNCHES WORLD WIDE WEB SITE,&nbsp;ACCREDITATION-SEARCHABLE DATABASE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(125 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>MEDSTAT AWARDED RESEARCH CONTRACTS, BUILDING&nbsp;NATIONAL DATABASE OF MENTAL HEALTH AND&nbsp;SUBSTANCE ABUSE SERVICES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(120 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>TOP HOSPITALS NAMED, NEW INDUSTRY BENCHMARKS&nbsp;RELEASED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(286 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><LI>TOP 100 HOSPITALS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(651 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>CAREDATA REPORTS PROVIDES INFORMATION ON&nbsp;CONSUMER SATISFACTION WITH MANAGED CARE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(606 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><LI>MARKETING INTEGRATED DELIVERY SYSTEMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>NEW MANAGED GEROPSYCHIATRIC CENTER HELPS&nbsp;MEDICAL CENTER REPOSITION SERVICES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(126 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><LI>HIT FEATURES THE SURGICAL LASER MARKET</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(58 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>NATIONAL HEALTH LAWYERS ASSOCIATION PUBLISHES&nbsp;LEGAL MANUAL ON HEALTH LAW</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(258 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>EXCLUSIVE SURVEY ON HOSPITAL AND GROUP&nbsp;CONTRACTING FOR NEEDLES AND SYRINGES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(103 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><A HREF = "#28"><LI>JOINT COMMISSION AND WESTCOTT COMMUNICATIONS&nbsp;FORM SATELLITE NETWORK</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(176 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><A HREF = "#29"><LI>JOINT COMMISSION SATELLITE NETWORK, 1996&nbsp;VIDEOCONFERENCE SCHEDULE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(127 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><A HREF = "#30"><LI>HOST HEALTH CARE CONSORTIUM LAUNCHES NEW&nbsp;INFORMATION PROGRAMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(133 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><A HREF = "#31"><LI>AHCPR AWARDS 10 RESEARCH GRANTS TO STUDY&nbsp;CHANGES IN HEALTH CARE MARKETS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(234 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><A HREF = "#32"><LI>FRIENDLY HILLS OPENS COLLEGE FOR MANAGED CARE&nbsp;IN CALIFORNIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(114 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><A HREF = "#33"><LI>FIFTY HEALTH CARE INSTITUTIONS IN 21 STATES&nbsp;WORKING TO RELIEVE PATIENTS' PAIN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(356 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><A HREF = "#34"><LI>MEDICAL SCHOOLS RECEIVE GRANTS FOR ADDING&nbsp;SPIRITUAL TRAINING TO CURRICULUM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(182 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><A HREF = "#35"><LI>LARGE MEDICAL GROUPS MAKE INTEGRATED SYSTEMS&nbsp;COMPETITIVE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(537 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><A HREF = "#36"><LI>PROVIDER SPONSORED ORGANIZATIONS WILL BE&nbsp;CAPITATED, BACKED BY RICH COMPANIES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(565 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

RISK-SHARED OUTSOURCING WILL SOAR AS BUILD-OR-
BUY SOLUTION

By Sharon McEachern
Outsourcing is becoming an increasingly viable alternative for more
and more hospitals and health care systems faced with the build-or-
buy dilemma. And everyone is facing this dilemma with every health
care delivery service they offer that is not a core competency.
Caught in the squeeze between mandated state and federal reforms
and the demands of insurance carriers, providers are analyzing all
likely areas for outsourcing opportunities--not just the traditional
housekeeping and food service.

The First Look At VHA Research Data On Outsourcing Hospitals

And although the majority (61%) of hospitals currently outsourcing
have flat price contracts with their outsource providers, most say,
now that they have some outsourcing experience, that they prefer
future contracts to be shared risk (39%) and performance-based
(30%), according to VHA.

The Irving, Texas-based hospital cooperative recently conducted an
extensive research project on outsourcing, interviewing CEOs,
COOs and CFOs from a cross section of its 1,200 hospital
members. Although VHA won't share this data with its members
formally until its first quarter '96 report, we have preliminary data
and can offer a preview of VHA's findings in this market memo.
(Bar graphs illustrating this data appear throughout this article.)

Extrapolating from its research survey, VHA found that a whopping
75% of its hospital and system members are outsourcing some
function. Most recent surveys indicate the number of outsourcing
hospitals today is around 40%.

Benefits Of Outsourcing

Asked to identify the financial benefits of outsourcing for their
hospitals, 84% of respondents listed lower overall costs, 14%
identified reduced required capitalization, 11% answered with
improved rate of returns and 5% said higher productivity.

Hospital administrators revealed key nonfinancial benefits of
outsourcing for their institutions as being access to or acquisition of
staff expertise (63%), enhanced quality (24%), ability to better serve
employees/patients (23%) and new technology (14%).

What are the disadvantages of outsourcing? Based on their
experience, not expectations, those who were currently outsourcing
said the disadvantages are poor performance/subcontractor (38%),
lack of control (34%) and increased costs (34%).

Some Unexpected Results

It is ironic that more than one-third cited increased costs as a
disadvantage of outsourcing when the number one reason for
outsourcing, listed by 84% as an advantage, was lower cost. There
is truth in both--the explanations for them and ways to protect your
institution from unwanted outsourcing surprises are soon to follow.

Another unexpected finding from the VHA study involves a
difference between independent hospitals vs. integrated systems.
Forty percent of the systems indicated they had more problems with
increased costs when outsourcing than the nonsystem hospitals, of
which 29% cited increased costs. The reasons for this variable are,
as yet, uncertain.

"Clearly, there is a focus to outsource whatever is considered not to
be a core capability," said Denise Rubin, VHA's director of
improvement services, a new R&D unit, looking for risk-sharing
potentials for member hospitals. "They want to focus their resources
behind reducing costs and increasing quality in the clinical area,
where outsourcing will be growing by leaps and bounds."

Although it is very difficult to achieve, the successful outsourcers
will be those who are aggressive in tying the outsourcing charge to a
per-member-per-month fee, said Rubin. Additionally, those
outsourcers who are adept at handling the emotional issues will
position themselves more successfully than those who continue to
ignore this challenge.

Outsourcing Is Both Financial And Emotional

"Outsourcing is a very good financial decision for an institution,
which can achieve significant cost reductions," she said. "But it's
not merely financial. Outsourcing is a very emotional issue, we've
discovered. There is a huge fear factor with outsourcing, specifically
from hospital employees."

To respond to those fears, you need to develop a strong transition
plan with a special focus on the labor component and all of those
ramifications.

BJC Health Gets Back Millions In Annualized Savings

In St. Louis, the BJC Health System considers outsourcing a very
viable option if it adds value to the organization. As cost pressures
continue to increase, BJC is taking an ever more critical look at what
outsourcing can bring to its system, said Jim Francis, vice president
of materiel management.

To illustrate the savings BJC has accrued from outsourcing, its food
service contract produced $5.8 million in annualized savings and its
medical/surgical distribution contracts is on track to achieve $4
million in annualized savings in its first year.

Reasons To Outsource

"We're looking for ways we can rapidly reduce operating costs and
labor costs, improve productivity, bring higher quality and service
to the organization, address existing problems and bring new
expertise and resources--all potentials with outsourcers," said
Francis.

In the last two years, BJC has looked at eight areas for outsourcing
opportunities. Those that have been outsourced include food
service, waste management, transportation services around its
metropolitan St. Louis campus and distribution services for
pharmaceutical and dietary supplies. Currently it's studying
outsourcing its linen and laundry services, forms, printing and
copying services and clinical and biomedical engineering. It decided
to consolidate and manage internally its housekeeping services.

The most important issues that need to be addressed before you even
embark on an outsourcing analysis is identifying the need for change
within your organization, recognizing that change is necessary to
achieve your goals, building the commitment around that
recognition, and communicating that thoroughly throughout your
organization.

It Shouldn't Be A Management-only Decision

"I don't think outsourcing decisions can be made by senior
management exclusively," said Francis. "They must involve the
end-users, the recipients of the service. It's important they be
included in the process of evaluating outsourcers."

G. Scott Dillon, chief development officer of Atlanta-based
outsourcer Transcend Services, said outsourcing is a way to get
economic benefits that you would typically get from reengineering,
but quicker.

Macro VS. Micro

"Outsourcing in health care is increasing tremendously. It provides
an opportunity for hospital CEOs to focus on the more macro
issues, the strategic planning, and allows an outsourcing provider to
focus on the micro issues, the day-to-day issues, which they can do
better," said Dillon, whose company contracts to manage accounts
receivables and medical records.

The recent fast growth is particularly evident in both business and
clinical outsourcing, including a 40% growth in information
technology outsourcing, 30% growth in data management
outsourcing and 13% increase in clinical outsourcing, advised
Dillon.

Loss Of Control Fear Is A Key Barrier

"A key barrier to outsourcing is the fear of loss of control," said
Dillon. "There's always the misperception that the hospital can do it
better than an outsider. Another misperception is that there may be
an extra layer of cost, but obviously the outsourcer needs to make a
profit in there."

From the hospital perspective, the way to overcome the fears and
barriers is to have a clear strategy, including realistically achievable
expectations, measurable conditions, and pricing and performance
goals based on responsibilities and risks of both parties. Selecting
an outsourcing company as a partner, rather than a vendor, is vital if
you want to shift or share in the risks, as is upfront discovery and
analysis of an outsourcer's technical, financial and management
capabilities.

The biggest stumbling block for hospitals that are considering
outsourcing is "personal pride," according to Mike Hamilton, Costa
Mesa, Calif.-based national director of health care for KPMG Peat
Marwick. "There seems to be a feeling of failure if you have to bring
in someone from outside. Another stumbling block is that people are
reluctant to let go and are anxious to hold on to how business has
always been provided."

What You Need To Know When Considering Outsourcing

Hamilton's top five list of things health care institutions need to
know when considering outsourcing include:

+ Make sure you're comparing apples to apples--that the cost you
think you're giving up, eliminating, should be comparable in nature
to the services you're going to be receiving.

+ Have an open mind relative to others' ways of doing things.

+ Be certain that the outsourcing vendor has tangible deliverables
and that performance can be easily assessed.

+ Services delivered by your institution should be enhanced. A good
outsourcing vendor should be able to become a seamless part of the
product that is delivered to the public. What the public sees
shouldn't be any different, whether you're doing it or someone else
is providing it.

+ Treat your outsourcing provider as a partner and not a vendor.
Partners tend to drive and create more value for each other than a
vendor relationship.

Great Misconception

"The greatest misconception that hospital folks have is that
outsource folks will give away the store for a contract--that they will
do it for little or no profit," said Hamilton. "The true perspective is
that outsourcers may be able to do it for less than hospitals are
currently paying and still make a handsome profit."

"Another frequent misconception is that most hospital administrators
tend to think they can get in and out relatively easily--if it doesn't
work out, we can go back to how it used to be. But to have a
partnership relationship, you need to have a long-term contract, at
least three to five years. Because, as service becomes more blended
into yours, to change it again makes it much more difficult."

The often-mentioned 90-day just-cause provisions are valid
contracting tools allowing escape. However, they should be used
only in the extreme situation, where philosophies and operating
styles can't be synchronized. The 90-day just-cause and year-to-year
contract is indicative of the old vendor relationship. Remember--
outsource providers will invest first in their longer contracts.

Within the acute care hospital market, there are between 10,000 and
11,000 outsourcing contracts in place, "and that number's growing
every day," said Keith Goding, executive vice president and chief
development officer for RehabCare Group. The St. Louis-based
outsourcer of rehabilitation and physical therapy programs contracts
with more than 100 hospitals in 24 states.

An Outsourcer Lists Tactical Reasons To Outsource

The tactical reasons for hospitals to outsource, as cited by Goding,
are to:

+ Control operating expenses--Across the board, in all industry, the
average cost savings last year from outsourcing was 9% and a 15%
increase in capacity and quality according to the Outsourcing
Institute.

+ Make capital funds available--You reduce need to invest capital
funds in non-core business functions.

+ Cash infusion--Transfer of assets from customer to the provider.

+ Gain access to resources that are not available internally.

+ Quickly gain control or improve management of departments that
are essentially out of control--not performing well, difficulty with
quality, staff turnover, financial performance that's gone down the
tubes.

"If you've just lost key staff in an area, the most efficient thing to do
is outsource it rather than the painful rebuilding internally," said
Goding. "It brings a new perspective to the table, new sources of
creativity, and outsourcers are not in that operating mode that has
self-fulfilling prophecies--like 'this department never makes
money.' It's tough to get a balanced perspective when you're so
close."

Focus With Outsourcers Should Be Performance Criteria

First define your institution's goals and its competencies. What are
the core competencies that your institution does best? What areas are
not centers of excellence, where a third party, a contract
management company might be able to provide more focus, bring
more resources, more expertise to the table and in the end manage
that function better?

When you are talking to an outsourcing company, the focus should
always be on performance criteria. You need to quantify what
performance you are looking for, what performance the outsourcing
vendor will be judged by and how performance will affect their
compensation.

Increasingly, the relationship between hospitals and outsourcers is
performance driven. It means the quality of services being provided
are measured in several ways--outcomes measurement, the clinical
outcome that is achieved for an individual patient or group of
patients, and satisfaction measurement of both patients who have
gone through the treatment and medical staff who've had interaction
with the outsourcing clinical vendor.

And remember, performance related to cost is a two-sided coin--
expense control and revenue generation.

You Have To Partner To Share The Risk

"The hospital and its outsourcing provider should be in the same
boat together," said Goding. "If risk is shared, both the up and
downside, that allows everyones' interest, intentions and motives to
be in alignment. It makes for partnerships. We think that the
partnership arrangement is the way to do business in today's
environment--not the traditional vendor relationship, based on flat
fees regardless of performance."

Catholic Health Care West, a 23-hospital system based in San
Francisco, outsources traditional services, including laundries, food
service, biomed programs, equipment repair and distribution of
materials.

"With the way the cost environment is going today, you have to
consider more outsourcing," said Mike Bergdorf, corporate director
of materials. "Hospitals still have not been subject to the tremendous
cost cutting that they will face in the future--from both insurance
carriers and the federal government. Outsourcing is one of the
options that you need to explore."

However, you must carefully assess the risks to outsourcing, too,
cautioned Bergdorf. Its biggest risk, in his opinion, is that once you
outsource a service, it's very difficult to bring it back inside. Often
the people needed to run the operations have left the hospital and
gone on to other jobs, and space might have been given up for other
programs that would have to be uprooted, producing a raft of new
problems and costs.

Spell Out Quality Specifications And Access To Data

Quality must be contractually specified, and some action spelled out,
if those quality standards are not maintained.

"You need to be careful that any outsource program fits in with the
overall focus and strategy of your hospital," said Bergdorf. "And
you don't want to outsource something where you lose all your
data. You must make a provision in any contract that you get access
to the information that comes from that outsourced function."

A stumbling block that hospitals trip over is not creating an
outsource contract that stipulates all the expectations and protects the
hospital, reiterated Marty Holzman, a Philadelphia-based manager
with Coopers & Lybrand.

Stipulate All Expectations In Outsource Contracts

As a buyer of outsource services, you need to create a detailed
document--not just accept the proposal that's given to you by the
outsource firm, but one that protects the interest of the hospital, he
said. It also must provide for incentives for improvements and
savings that match the goals and objectives of the hospital.

"I've seen too many outsourcing agreements just be renewed year
after year, without a rigorous evaluation of how the agreement now
compares to either other outsource firms or what the hospital could
do on its own," said Holzman.

The renewal evaluations should be a team process including people
from finance, patient care, materials management and others whom
outsourcing impacts, so that it's looked at from a variety of
perspectives.

With the increasing capitation agreements, you must build into
contracts the right level of risk sharing and controls to ensure cost
savings and quality of services. This is particularly important
because the outsourcing firm has an incentive to just cut costs and a
tendency to reduce quality. For example, if you have a pharmacy
outsource contract, it should include controls that ensure availability
of services 24 hours a day and guarantee delivery of the first dose of
a drug within 30 minutes.

Outsourcing possibilities have expanded quickly, and you, too, need
to stretch in your consideration of them for the survival of your
hospital or system.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For more information on outsourcing, call the following sources
interviewed in this article:

+ Mike Bergdorf, corporate director of materials, Catholic Health
Care West, San Francisco: 415/397-9040.

+ G. Scott Dillon, chief development officer, Transcend Services,
Atlanta: 800/225-7552, Ext. 220.

+ Jim Francis, vice president of materiel management, BJC Health
Systems, St. Louis: 314/286-2035.

+ Keith Goding, executive vice president and chief development
officer, RehabCare Group, St. Louis: 800/677-1238.

+ Mike Hamilton, national director health care, KPMG Peat
Marwick, Costa Mesa, Calif.: 310/499-4031.

+ Martin Holzman, manager, Coopers & Lybrand, Philadelphia:
215/963-8547.

+ Denise Rubin, director of improvement services, VHA, Irving,
Texas: 214/830-0064.

+ The Outsourcing Institute, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.: 914/ 463-1110.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

WHAT YOUR OUTSOURCE PROVIDER MUST HAVE:

+ The right technical expertise;

+ Understanding of your hospital and its market;

+ Strength and depth in management team;

+ Human resource and physical capabilities;

+ Financial strength--both balance sheet and cash flow;

+ Compatibility with your organization's technical and strategic
interests--a cultural fit;

+ Willingness to be a partner, not a vendor;

+ Ability to meet measurable and realistically achievable expectations
of pricing and performance goals.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

PUBLISH CAPITATION RATES, HMO PREMIUMS

By Donald E.L. Johnson
Hospitals, integrated systems, large medical groups and managed
care organizations should publish their capitated rates and insurance
premiums and eliminate much of the contracting secrecy that is
distorting the health care market.

A favorite ploy used by HMOs is to require subcontractors to keep
their contract terms confidential. This is a mistake for providers.
Secrecy favors health maintenance organizations and preferred
provider organizations and lets them give different deals to
competing providers. Secrecy also allows providers to give different
deals to competing HMOs, but HMOs know the market better than
providers and are less likely to be taken advantage of by providers.

HMOs Have Information Advantage

At this point, a few powerful HMOs and PPOs have tremendous
negotiating advantages over providers, because there is an
oversupply of specialists and hospital beds in most markets.

In addition, because the chains are in many markets, they know
what they can get away with better than small medical groups and
integrated health care systems do.

Also, hospitals already publish room rates and disclose their average
charges per patient day. And their costs are widely available to
managed care organizations and large employers from Medicare cost
reports, and HMO's costs and premiums already are published
periodically. So publishing capitation rates and average premiums
would be just the next step toward full disclosure and more uniform
pricing in health care.

In other commodity and financial markets, producers publish their
prices and give them to various publishers such as The Wall Street
Journal, which uses them in its cash markets table on the
commodities page and in various financial tables.

Lehman Bros., Merrill Lynch and other industry leaders publish
their prices, which are used as benchmarks for the industry.
Contracts are written based on the banks' published prime lending
rates.

Potential Leaders: Columbia, Mayo

Columbia/HCA, Mayo Clinic, Kaiser and Cigna, to mention a few
organizations, all have the potential of establishing themselves as
national and market leaders by publishing their prices, or "prime
rates." This would establish them as the market leaders and would
allow them to test price changes quickly as their costs change.

What published prices do for sellers is establish the market price.
Then, competitors can offer discounts from the market price or
charge premiums. A bank, for example, may charge one point over
prime plus a 1% transaction fee on a 36-month asset loan.

When there are published prices, buyers' expectations are more
realistic and there is less price cutting and relatively little
overcharging by suppliers. Everyone knows the going auto loan
rate, the 30-year mortgage rate and the price of soybean meal.

Like it or not, employers and HMOs are treating health care services
as commodities, and they should be priced accordingly.

Thus, in local markets, large medical groups and integrated systems
should establish themselves as market leaders by publishing their
capitated rates for primary care physicians, specialists,
pharmaceuticals and other services. The insurers already are getting
such information from various database purveyors, including
Medirisk in Atlanta. The important challenge for providers is to
make sure that all providers and employers have the same
information as HMOs, PPOs and other insurers.

Medicare Becoming Highest Payer

Pricing secrecy in managed care contracting is one reason that
Medicare is one of the highest--if not the highest payers--in some
markets where managed care organizations are demanding and
getting 20% to 70% discounts from providers. Providers and
diagnostic centers that are desperate for business or out of touch
with their markets are giving their services away and dragging prices
down not only for themselves but for all providers.

This industry secret hit the cover of the influential political journal,
The New Republic (December 11, pp. 20), and undoubtedly
influenced the negotiations between Congress and the president over
the Medicare Preservation Act of 1995.

What the politicians probably concluded and will decide in 1996 is
that if Medicare can be the best payer in some markets, it probably is
paying too much. Their solution will be to cut Medicare payments to
providers instead of slowing the rate of growth of payments over the
next seven years.

Medicare Payment Schemes Will Change

They also are likely to conclude that if HMOs can get such good
prices for commercial enrollees, they probably can do the same for
Medicare enrollees. As a result, the politicians will change the
payment scheme for Medicare risk contractors so that they won't be
paid as much as they are under the current program.

This will work to the advantage of the rich, established HMOs that
have billions in reserves and no debt. It will hurt new provider
organizations and provider sponsored organizations that are trying to
break into the metropolitan Medicare risk contracting markets. POs
and PSOs in more rural areas may not be hurt, because politicians
are inclined to protect them and their rural hospitals.

How Providers Will React To Price Pressure

Meanwhile, deep discounting by hospitals, medical groups, solo
practitioners and integrated systems will roil the commercial
managed care markets. Hospitals and small multi-hospital systems
will protect themselves by:

+ Joining larger multi-unit providers and provider sponsored
organizations that can resist price pressures.

+ Creating integrated health care systems anchored by large medical
groups that are capitated.

+ Buying and closing smaller competitors.

+ Encouraging small physician groups to consolidate.

+ Pushing physicians harder to reduce utilization and improve
outcomes.

+ Publishing prices so competitors know the market.

+ Restructuring access to reduce costs.

+ Refusing to contract with the most price-conscious HMOs; being
willing to lose a few contracts.

+ Making greater use of nurse and physician extenders.

+ Negotiating better deals with suppliers.

+ Standardizing more medical and surgical supplies.

+ Buying money-saving products and services regardless of
whether they are covered by group purchasing contracts.

+ Making a big public issue of HMOs' pricing demands and cutting
the most visible and popular services in response to those demands.

+ Selling quality.

+ Pushing for full pricing disclosure legislation.

Some HMOs Will Pay More

Some HMOs will be smart enough to cut costs by recruiting the best
providers instead of paying the lowest professional fees and
capitated rates.

They'll look for well-managed hospitals and integrated systems that
minimize utilization, as large medical groups are doing on the West
Coast. And they'll hook up with large medical groups that will
control utilization on their own without requiring much
administrative time or expenses from the HMO.

Unfortunately, the largest HMOs, with 50% to 75% of all HMO
enrollees, have the leverage to win big price concessions from
providers, and they are exercising their power in many markets.
Smaller HMOs and integrated systems don't have as much clout,
which puts them at price disadvantages in markets where they are
not the largest players. But where they are the largest HMOs, small
HMOs can put a lot of pressure on providers' rates.

This is why it will benefit even smaller integrated systems and
medical groups that are the largest providers in their market to
become the price leaders by publishing their capitated rates as well
as their room rates and office visit fees.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

MOORE REGIONAL HOSPITAL IN GOLF-HISTORIC
PINEHURST BREAKS SUCCESS RECORDS WITH ITS
HEALTH AND FITNESS CENTER

The 397-bed Moore Regional Hospital is based in Pinehurst, N.C.,
a resort community whose citizens--60% of whom are retired--call
their town "the home of golf in America." As one of its first visible
signs that it is converting from a "sick care" institution to an
integrated "health care" system, Moore Regional Hospital
established a comprehensive health and fitness center. The $6.7
million facility was designed to integrate health promotion, wellness
and fitness activities with cardiac and physical rehabilitation and
community health.

"Strategically, the hospital entered this business to begin managing
the health status of its population, to create a new revenue source
and to create a new image for the health system," said Robert
Boone, vice president of professional services.

With unprecedented success in its opening membership, the new
52,000-square foot facility opened its doors in January, with 3,600
members. Membership has grown to a current 4,200--with more
than 900 on its waiting list. Some 27% of Pinehurst's population are
members, and they pay an average of $38 per month for
membership. Where the average age of members in most hospital-
based wellness centers is mid-30s, Pinehurst's older retired citizenry
has produced an average member age of 53 years. The center's year-
to-date turnover rate is less than 11%. And although it is still too
early to predict with certainty financial performance, it appears the
facility will break even within the first 15 months of operation.

Programming is offered for all ages ranging from six months
through geriatrics, with specific activities for arthritics, pre- and
postnatal fitness, diabetics, cardiac and physical rehabilitation,
medically directed weight loss and personalized intervention based
on an individual's current fitness status or medical diagnosis. The
health and fitness center also offers free community health lectures
monthly, with an average attendance of 70 people.

Information obtained from health risk appraisals and fitness
evaluations, offered to every member upon joining the facility, are
stored in a database. Additionally, the hospital is beginning to
aggressively pursue obtaining health risk appraisals, through the
corporate members, the occupational health program, community
health outreach program and community health fairs, on as many
people as possible within the service area.

"By obtaining and constantly updating the database, we will have a
statistically valid measure of the health status of the population it
serves and a tool to measure the societal impact of programs it may
offer," said Boone.

For corporate customers, who comprise 30% of membership,
periodic reports are run that show the health risk reduction for their
employees participating in wellness and fitness programs. These
results can be translated into reduced sick time, reduced time lost at
work to illness and injury, increased productivity and dollars saved.
The product is customized for each client by looking at the most
frequently encountered work site injuries and specifically designing
classes or interventions designed to reduce the number and severity
of workplace injuries.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For more information, call Boone at 910/215-1441.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

CHICAGO SEVEN FORM ONE OF CITY'S LARGEST
INTEGRATED HEALTH CARE NETWORKS

Seven major health care organizations have joined to form the
Unified HealthCare Network, becoming one of the largest managed
health care organizations in the Chicago area.

Founding members of the new network are Loyola University
Medical Center, Resurrection Health Care Corp., Saint Bernard
Hospital and Health Care Center, Saint Francis Hospital of
Evanston, Saint James Hospital and Health Centers and Saint Mary
of Nazareth Hospital Center.

Formation of the network, with initial committed capital of $33
million, will enable them to contract as a single unit with HMOs,
PPOs and employers to provide medical and wellness services. As
part of the agreement, the network partners also are forming a
regional physicians hospital organization (PHO) which will enable
physicians on their hospital medical staffs to participate in the
managed care contracting.

The Unified network partners own seven hospitals with more than
2,900 beds. In metropolitan Chicago, the network's partners have
total assets of more than $1.5 billion, an annual revenue stream of
more than $1.1 billion, more than 14,000 employees, 2,300
physicians. The network partners treat more than 1 million patients a
year in Chicago.

"The formation of this network is not a hospital preservation
strategy," said Burton Vanderlaan, M.D., president and CEO of the
new network. "Rather, it is a milestone initiative creating a fully
integrated health care delivery system focused on meeting the health
care needs of the communities it serves, and that is the next major
step in the evolution of managed care."

For additional information, call William Colwell at 708/823-3519.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

COLUMBIA-PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER OFFERS
PLUSH GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS

The McKeen Pavilion--the five-year-old plush facility at Columbia-
Presbyterian Medical Center in New York--has begun offering
$150-per-night guest accommodations for family members and
visitors of patients. The amenities include a concierge, room service,
continental breakfast, valet parking and a complimentary high tea.

Patients who are ensconced at McKeen Pavilion pay $250 per night
for a standard hospital room and $325 nightly for the premium
room, which includes flowers, a fruit basket, robe and slippers, and
a river view.

A year ago, Columbia-Presbyterian opened overnight
accommodations for parents at their children's hospital, which was
very successful, particularly for parents of critically ill children. The
fee was a nominal $25 per night, subsidized by outside
contributions. They started with seven rooms and thought they'd fill
maybe four per night. But, they ended up using 11 rooms per night
and often times had waiting lists.

"We knew when we opened the facility that we'd be meeting a need,
but honestly had very little idea how extensive that need was and
were overwhelmed by the response," said Karyn Schwab, executive
director of the babies' and children's hospital.

In response to a continuing need of family members, under stress
and often traveling from around the world for care at the quaternary
care center, Columbia-Presbyterian decided to offer rooms with
additional amenities and pamper the patient and family.

"The marketplace has gotten much more competitive in New York,
and everyone is looking for creative ways of meeting needs and
attracting patients," said Schwab. "We've been pleasantly surprised
by the response. We only advertised to our medical staff, and within
two days all of our rooms were booked and we had a waiting list."

For more information, call Schwab at 212/305-7112.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HEALTH CARE ORGANIZATIONS URGED TO ADOPT FIVE
STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES

"Health care organizations must adopt an action plan to safeguard
and ensure affordable quality medical care in an environment where
the federal government's role will be greatly constrained, diminished
or eliminated," said Daniel P. Bourque, senior vice president, VHA
information and research.

In their 1996 environmental assessment, VHA and Deloitte &
Touche recommend five actions for health care organizations to
prevent an escalating medical crisis. According to the report, the
1996 Environmental Assessment of the Health Care System in the
United States, organizations must:

+ Broaden their vision to service multiple customers with varying
needs;

+ Insist on vibrant, integrated delivery systems;

+ Improve financial performance and operating results;

+ Define and monitor quality outcomes throughout the continuum of
care;

+ Focus on improving core processes to offer better services at
lower costs.

The report analyzes a large body of primary research that addresses
all facets of the U.S. health care system and its participants: patients,
clinicians, providers, managed care organizations, insurers and
government. The assessment offers both short- and long-term
critical action recommendations and is a benchmark used annually
by strategic planners.

VHA urges providers to move toward the "accountable care phase"
of integration, where providers' incentives are aligned with
purchasers and insurers and there is full integration between
providers and the community.

Pointing to the climbing inflation rate for hospitals--5.5% in 1994
compared with overall medical care inflation's 4.9% growth, the
lowest rate of growth since 1973--Merlin Olson, a partner with
Deloitte & Touche, said:

"Despite hospitals' energetic efforts to trim their inpatient
overcapacity, the fact remains that we still have twice the number of
beds we need. Moreover, overcapacity weakens the bargaining
position of providers as they face off against employers and other
purchasers who are less willing to subsidize underpayments by
government and other low-margin payers."

For more information on the 1996 Environmental Assessment
report, available for $85, call VHA Teleservices at 800/842-7587.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

THE REVOLT AGAINST THE ONE-DAY STAY

By Beth Ginzinger
The hospital care of women during the birthing process has changed
dramatically over the last several years. Health care facilities are
being created to reflect this new attitude toward childbirth by
providing a homelike environment; allowing the infant, mother, and
significant other to stay together; and minimizing transfers during
the hospital stay.

Most Prevalent Admission Is Childbirth

Ironically, the attitude that childbirth is a natural process has also
fueled one of the most hotly debated health care issues: the length of
stay for new mothers and babies. With 4 million deliveries a year,
childbirth is the most prevalent cause of hospital admission,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Not
surprisingly, length of stay for normal vaginal deliveries is being
scrutinized by payers seeking to minimize costs.

It is particularly difficult in this time of uncertainty to plan for
obstetrical facilities. Significant changes in length of stay can have a
dramatic impact on facilities, particularly for large-volume services
with a single-room maternity care concept. And yet, many
institutions are facing situations where renovation or replacement of
their obstetrical services is imperative to their ability to negotiate for
managed care contracts and remain marketable to their physician and
patient constituents.

Economic Line Between Wellness And Clinical Risk

Many people, particularly clinicians and patients, feel that we have
crossed the line between a wellness approach that is also
economically sound, and an economic approach that is clinically
unsafe. The recent study completed at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical
Center validated clinical concerns as they relate to newborns and
early discharge. The study team evaluated nearly 15,000 infants
from New Hampshire by reviewing readmission rates and ER visits
for neonates sent home within 48 hours of birth. They concluded
that infants discharged early are at increased risk. The most common
reasons for readmission and ER visits included jaundice,
pneumonia, and gastroenteritis. They also concluded, by comparing
costs of early discharge vs. longer hospital stays, that early
discharge, although clinically questionable, is a cost-effective
approach. According to the study, the balance between clinical
issues and cost-effectiveness appears to be a well-developed follow-
up program either using a home health approach or a scheduled
return visit.

There has also been considerable discussion about the impact of the
reduced length of stay on mothers. Patient satisfaction surveys
indicate that mothers perceive that their care is less than adequate,
with particular emphasis on the lack of time that the nurses spend
with them. Nurses express concerns that they do not have sufficient
time to educate and evaluate psychosocial issues that may need to be
addressed.

Hospitals Are Caught In The Crossfire

A number of legislative actions have been introduced recently
mandating the option for a 48-hour length of stay for new mothers
and neonates, based on the Dartmouth-Hitchcock study and
guidelines from the National College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists and the American College of Pediatricians. Early
discharge is allowed with certain criteria, including clinical standards
and well-defined follow-up care programs. Legislation has already
passed in Maryland, New Jersey and Massachusetts and is pending
in California, New York and Pennsylvania. This legislation places
the hospital in the middle of the crossfire. Based on study findings,
clinician pressures and an increasingly litigious society, many
hospital administrators feel compelled to support a two-day length of
stay. However, with continued pressure to decrease costs in the era
of managed care, and with obstetrical admissions contributing to a
significant number of patient days in a relatively healthy patient
population, length of stay is a prime target for decreasing resource
utilization.

Where will the pendulum stop in the length of stay debate? And will
it start to swing again in a few years? With an expected life of at
least twenty years, a long-range obstetrical facility development
strategy is needed to weather changing variables. For hospitals
facing renovation or new construction of their obstetrical facilities,
the answer is to plan flexible space and concentrate on two major
approaches: Employ the labor-delivery-recovery-postpartum
(LDRPlus) concept to eliminate use of single-room maternity care
for extended-stay patients, and provide adequate triage/holding
space.

Because of the random nature of arrivals to the obstetrical suite,
determining the appropriate number of birthing rooms is a
challenging task. Since actual workloads fluctuate from month to
month, week to week and day to day, use of a daily average for
facility planning, calculated from monthly or yearly total workload
data, results in a rather marked understatement of space needs. A
small-volume service (less than 1,000 births) may require twice the
number of birthing rooms to accommodate the peak than required
for the average. Considering the additional the impact of a one-day
vs. a two-day length of stay, and the planning range may be as wide
as 200%. Alternatively, planning for the busiest day of the year
results in severely underused facilities, with these beds frequently
either empty or used for postpartum patients, and the high-tech
characteristics of the birthing rooms used only a fraction of the time.

LDRPlus Is The Key

The LDRPlus concept, a mix of birthing rooms and ante/postpartum
rooms, is recommended as the most cost-effective and flexible
approach. Low-risk patients with good prenatal care, who are
receptive to education programs and have no major socioeconomic
problems, are targeted prior to delivery as candidates for a 24-hour
length of stay in a birthing room. For patients who do not fit the
criteria for a one-day length of stay, it is not an appropriate use of
resources to maintain that patient in a birthing room for their entire
occupancy. These patients should be transferred to a postpartum bed
for a longer stay after their recovery period in a birthing room.

The goal is to have all vaginal deliveries occur in a birthing room
and use the birthing rooms as labor/delivery/recovery/postpartum
areas for patients who have a high probability of being discharged
within 24 hours or when census permits. Other patients will be
transferred to private postpartum rooms. During peak times, a high
proportion of the patients will be transferred. This approach
maximizes use of high-cost birthing rooms while providing a
homelike atmosphere for all patients and cost-effective utilization of
resources. A well-planned women/infants center provides intrinsic
flexibility to accommodate peaks and valleys throughout the year as
well as typical forecasting inaccuracies.

Triage/Holding Space Is Key To Flexibility

Providing sufficient triage/holding space is crucial for obstetrical
facilities that must handle wide fluctuations in workload. The triage
area is used to regulate the flow of patients into the larger and more
expensive birthing rooms during peak periods, much as the
provision of a minimal number of postpartum beds allows selected
patients to be moved out of the birthing rooms more rapidly during
peak periods.

The average length of stay in a birthing room prior to delivery
should be between 10 and 12 hours. If the stay exceeds this range,
patients are probably being admitted prior to experiencing active
labor, often because no triage/holding facilities are available for
assessment. Once admitted into a birthing room, it is often difficult
to send patients home who are not in active labor. Also, at peak
times when the unit is at capacity, if the labor or birthing rooms are
the only available space for a laboring patient, the low-risk, 24-hour
postpartum patient will have to be transferred.

Triage/holding space can also be used for common prenatal testing
(nonstress tests, ultrasounds, etc.). In addition, this space may be
used as a return visit assessment area for those patients discharged
within 24 hours. Finally, it is important to allocate appropriate
resources to prenatal education and care for patients who are eligible
for a 24-hour length of stay. Patients will have better clinical
outcomes and a better view of their experience if they are well
educated and well prepared.

As the pace of change accelerates in the health care industry,
hospitals must continue to balance patient expectations with payer
demands. The LDRPlus approach combined with adequate
triage/holding areas is the best solution for hospitals struggling to
plan obstetrical facilities during the 24-hour length of stay debate.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

Beth B. Ginzinger is a senior consultant with Chi Systems Inc. in
Ann Arbor, Mich. She can be contacted by calling 313/761-3912.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

WOMEN'S HEALTH MARKED BY THEIR OWN HIGH-RISK
BEHAVIOR AND PROVIDER NEGLIGENCE

The lives of too many women are marked by high-risk behavior and
by failure to obtain routine clinical preventive services to detect life-
threatening conditions, according to the findings of a recent study by
UCLA Center for Health Policy Research, funded by The
Commonwealth Fund.

Study findings are based on data gathered from more than 25,000
women as part of the 1991 National Health Survey and its
supplement.

More than one-third of women, ages 40 and over, had not received a
clinical breast exam or mammogram in the past two years. The
majority of women in the study were not queried about smoking,
diet, exercise, alcohol and drug use during their last medical
checkup. Yet three in five women, age 18 and over, reported risky
behavior in one of more of these areas.

Early detection of cervical cancer through the use of the Pap test has
resulted in a 40% reduction in invasive cervical cancer during the
past 40 years. Despite this proven effectiveness, 43% of women
have not been screened in the past year.

Breast cancer is the most frequently occurring cancer among
women, and the stage at which it is diagnosed is a major predictor of
survival. Yet, among women over age 40, four out of 10 have not
had a clinical breast examination within the past year, and 46% have
not had a mammogram within the past two years.

The report demonstrates the need for outreach and education
programs to target low-income and minority women, in particular,
who have the lowest screening rates for most preventive services.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For copies of the full report or fact sheets, contact the fund at
212/535-0400.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HALF OF AMERICANS NEVER COMPLETE ANTIBIOTIC
THERAPY; BACTERIAL DRUG RESISTANCE MAY BE A
CONSEQUENCE

There is widespread misuse of commonly prescribed antibiotics.
More than half of American adults who have taken antibiotics do not
take all doses of their antibiotic as prescribed, according to a recent
Gallup survey. Many simply stop when they start to feel better. A
concern of patients is a belief that they will develop a resistance to
antibiotics. Clinicians emphasize that people who fail to take their
antibiotics as prescribed contribute to the development of harder-to-
treat infections.

A national cross section of 1,010 adults and 100 physicians was
surveyed. Although antibiotics effectively treat only bacterial
infections, six out of 10 adults mistakenly believe antibiotics are
effective against viral infections, such as colds and influenza. Eight
out of 10 physicians believe patients save unfinished antibiotic
prescriptions to use again at a later time.

To encourage proper usage of antibiotics, the American Lung Assn.
offers a patient eduction brochure, Winter Wellness: A Common
Sense Guide to Antibiotics.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For more information, call 1/800/454-3144.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

CARE FOR DYING AMERICANS NEEDS SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT, SAY RESEARCHERS

Efforts to prolong people's lives too often merely prolong dying,
according to findings from the largest clinical study ever conducted
in the U.S. with patients near death. An eight-year study, involving
nearly 10,000 seriously ill patients in five leading medical
institutions, the Study to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for
Outcomes and Risks of Treatments (SUPPORT) cost $28 million
and was funded by The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.The
study was reported in the November 22/29 issue of The Journal of
the American Medical Association (JAMA).

"Woefully inadequate communication" between medical
professionals and patients near the end of life was the principal
problem found by researchers. Doctors don't clearly convey
patients' chances for survival. And compounding the problem,
patients and families don't discuss their wishes soon, or often,
enough.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

A TRAGIC MISMATCH

"There is a tragic mismatch between the health care many seriously
ill and dying people want and what they get," said study director Dr.
William Knaus, critical care specialist and department chair at the
University of Virginia Medical School. "They find themselves in
hospital environments that are geared to doing certain high-tech,
invasive procedures extraordinarily well. Such treatments can
preserve life for conditions that would have previously resulted
more quickly in death. These same techniques, however, can also
prolong dying and make it a painful and mechanical process. The
problem is that the system does not know when or how to stop."

Findings were particularly alarming because the results were
contrary to outside experts' assumptions about what would make it
easier to curtail aggressive medical care, increase the attention given
to pain control and other symptoms, and cut hospital costs.

Study patients were from Beth Israel Hospital in Boston,
MetroHealth Medical Center in Cleveland, Marshfield Clinic/St.
Joseph's Hospital in Marshfield, Wis., and the University of
California at Los Angeles Hospital.

The SUPPORT study involved 4,301 hospitalized patients who, on
average, could be expected to survive no more than six months.
Patients had one of nine life-threatening conditions, including
cancers, congestive heart failure and chronic liver disease. (Deaths
from these nine causes account for more than one-third of adult
U.S. deaths annually.) Among the findings are the following:

+ Doctors didn't know their patients' wishes. For example, if
patients did not want cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), doctors
didn't know about it 47% of the time.

+ Of the do-not-resuscitate orders, 46% were not written until a day
or two before death, suggesting little advance planning in terminal
illnesses.

+ 38% of patients spent at least 10 days in intensive care, where
aggressive treatment is the norm.

+ Pain was common. Half the patients able to communicate in the
last three days of life said they were in severe pain.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

SPECIAL HELP FOR DOCTORS AND PATIENT FAMILIES

The second phase of the study, a subsequent two-year clinical trial,
involved 4,804 seriously ill patients, who were divided into either a
control group that received customary care or an experimental
group, in which doctors and families had the following special help:

+ A nurse whose job was to talk to patients and families about their
concerns and to keep lines of communication open and clear
between them and the hospital and physician staff;

+ Computer-generated reports estimating a patient's probability of
surviving six months and how disabled they would be in the next
two months; and

+ Detailed written instructions on the patient's and family's wishes
regarding treatment--including pain control and "heroic measures"
such as resuscitation--and how much they wanted to discuss their
treatment with their doctor.

These interventions were developed and based on the kinds of
information that doctors said they needed regarding patients' medical
status and wishes for treatment. But according to Knaus, "we were
stunned to find that it didn't make a bit of difference. The tools that
experts thought would work, didn't."

The three-part intervention did not affect the amount of time patients
spent in the intensive care unit, in a coma or on an artificial breathing
machine before dying. Reports of pain increased, and costs of care
did not change.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

GUIDELINES TO IMPROVE CARE FOR THE DYING

The study's researchers suggest the following to improve care for
the dying:

+ Establish end-of-life practice guidelines;

+ Teach medical students and physicians that technological
approaches to dying can harm patients;

+ Teach palliative care techniques that enhance life at its end;

+ Hospitals should examine patterns of care for dying patients,
emphasizing the new responsibilities that doctors and hospitals must
assume when death is unavoidable.

For more information, contact the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation at 609/452-8701.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

WASHINGTON STATE HOSPITALS SHOW TREND TOWARD
SICKER PATIENTS, SHORTER STAYS

The effects of managed care on hospitals are dramatically evident in
Washington state. There are fewer people in the hospital today, and
those who are in the hospital are sicker than ever before. This year,
for the first time in more than 20 years, dollar charges related to their
inpatient care decreased.

In Washington the trend is much more pronounced than in other
parts of the country, according to findings of Bellevue, Wash.-
based HBS International (HBSI). Specializing in measuring health
care outcomes, HBSI found dramatic changes in Washington state
inpatient hospital use in the last year.

Although there was overall population growth in the state and the
degree of illness increased by 4%, between 1993 and 1994 hospital
inpatient days decreased by almost a quarter-million. The charges
associated with hospital inpatient care dropped by over $72 million
and the number of hospitalized patients dropped by 16,670. This
was the only year during the four-year study in which charges
dropped, even though the degree of illness continued to increase.

In Seattle, almost $90 million less was charged for inpatient hospital
care from 1993 to 1994, representing a 5% drop in charges,
114,156 few patient days, and 10,164 fewer hospitalized patients.
Most of the Puget Sound areas followed this trend of treating sicker
patients in less time and for less money.

In marked contrast, Spokane area hospitals charged over $8 million
more during that time period, despite having hospitalized 756 fewer
patients for 21,301 fewer inpatient days than the year before.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For more information, call HBSI at 206/455-2652.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

COMPUTERIZED PATIENT RECORDS SEEN AS BENEFICIAL
TREND BY MAJORITY OF AMERICANS

The majority of Americans believe the trend toward computerized
medical patient record systems is a beneficial one, and much of their
resistance to participating is reduced with assurances of privacy
safeguards, according to findings of a new Equifax-Harris survey.

Most Americans (98%) also believe that regardless of whether their
files are on paper or in a computer, a patient should be able to obtain
a copy of the medical record maintained about him or her by a doctor
or health facility."

When considering the personal benefits of a computerized patient
record system, survey respondents attached the greatest importance
to the ability to send critical information to an emergency room
doctor while away from home. Some 86% said that would be "very"
important to them. Seven out of 10 also said they could appreciate
the ability to more effectively collate and present medical histories
and test results, and 55% described as "very" important the benefit
of avoiding the need to fill out medical and insurance forms.

When exploring the benefits of quality and reduced cost,
approximately 75% agreed it would be very important to use
computer-based patient records to:

+ Identify substandard doctors and poorly run health facilities;

+ Improve detection of and reduce fraudulent claims by patients,
doctors and hospitals;

+ Reduce the cost of health care by improving the identification of
waste and inefficiency;

+ Get better statistical data for studying the causes of disease and
testing new treatments.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For a copy of the complete survey, call Catherine Thurston at
404/885-8231.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

EXPLOSIVE GROWTH IN MEDICARE DEMANDS NEW
DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS, DIFFERENT MARKETING

There is no question that there will be an explosive growth in the
Medicare market as state and federal reforms mandate more and
more managed care for the senior health care market. The numbers
of enrollees and Health Care Financing Administration contracts for
Medicare managed care plans have grown enormously in the last
few years.

"Medicare managed care will have a growing emphasis on health
and wellness as a key part of demand management," said Sheila
Jacobs, senior consultant for managed care marketing at Scottsdale,
Ariz.-based HSM Group. "It will promote vastly underserved
beneficiaries--a large senior population that's never been served
before by managed care. Productivity is no longer the cash cow."

Adverse Selection Probably Minimal

An initial problem is adverse selection--drawing people who will
drive utilization up. But, remember, people do not tend to leave the
environment they are in. When Cigna of Arizona offered a zero-
premium product, less than 5% adversely selected, said Jacobs.
People don't make a switch because they are not well, but you must
know the demographics of your population.

For example, most people in Arizona--one of the most HMO-
penetrated markets in the country--thought the mecca for Medicare
managed care would be Sun City and the Phoenix metropolitan area,
where there are more than 325,000 individuals who make up the
65+ population of Maricopa County. But, as few as 70,000 net
eligibles are yielded when seniors who have employer retirement
health plans, the working aged and other categories are eliminated.
Jacob explained how insurers found out that some 80,000 of the
senior population were in indemnity plans from their former
employers, which could not be converted to a Medicare risk
product. About 104,000 were already in Medicare HMOs who
would require a switching strategy for marketers. Some 40,000
people were still part of the working aged and had health insurance
through their employers. Some had Medicaid--seniors with end-
stage renal disease or in hospice care.

Demand Analysis Of Marketplace Is A Key

"The key is to do a demand analysis in the marketplace," said
Jacobs. "You better find out the net eligibles, not the gross eligibles.
And remember, patient satisfaction and member retention strategies
are critical. People can change month-to-month to another plan.
Within 45 days they can switch, it's not annual."

Psychographics And Demographics Are Vital

The health plans that will be successful in government risk programs
will need to conduct research to learn the medical needs of the
seniors in the geographic area they serve, as well as their
psychographic and demographic characteristics. Successful
Medicare risk products will require sales and communication
techniques very different from those used to reach the blue-collar
worker, the white-collar professional, baby boomers or any other
market niche, emphasized Jacobs. Then you must never stop
analyzing your product and measuring member service satisfaction
and perceptions. This continuous review of product, providers and
plan members is critical, not only for statistical evidence, but to
document quality.

There are very different ways to market to 60-year-olds vs.
marketing to 70-year-olds or 80-year-olds. However, there are some
general "satisfiers and dissatisfiers" for seniors, said Jacobs. In
order of importance, they are providers, prescriptions and hospitals.
Through focus groups held by The HSM Group, seniors expressed
the following:

+ Providers--Seniors are looking for their own doctors on that list of
providers, and plans with limited physician choices are definitely at
a disadvantage.

+ Prescriptions--Formulary is a very important satisfier, and good
prescription coverage is always a competitive advantage. Availability
of this benefit is important--not having a cap on it, but rather a high-
end coverage. "Seniors like to know that it is open-ended," said
Jacobs. "In fact, they do not use as much medicine as they think
they do, so it's easier to offer a higher benefit because they rarely
get anywhere near the cap."

+ Hospitals--Hospital choice is extremely important. Most people
have a familiarity with the hospital they go to, and they want it on
the list.

+ Friendly environment--Most important to seniors is a friendly and
pleasant environment. More people change plans because of patient
dissatisfaction with medical staff and lack of understanding of HMO
or product. It's crucial to have a strong orientation program for
Medicare patients.

For more information on managed care marketing, contact Jacobs at
602/947-8078.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

NCQA LAUNCHES WORLD WIDE WEB SITE,
ACCREDITATION-SEARCHABLE DATABASE

The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) has a new
World Wide Web site, which will make information on managed
care quality and individual health plan performance more accessible.
The World Wide Web site is located at http://www.ncqa.org.

Major areas featured at the Web site are accreditation, HEDIS report
cards, publications, educational conferences and NCQA news.
Updated monthly, the NCQA's accreditation status list shows how
individual health plans have fared in NCQA's accreditation process.
Visitors to the site will be able to view or download the list, and it
soon will be part of a searchable database as well. NCQA invites
providers, employers, health plans, regulators, medical
organizations and consumer groups to link to the site.

For more information, call NCQA at 202/955-3500



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

MEDSTAT AWARDED RESEARCH CONTRACTS, BUILDING
NATIONAL DATABASE OF MENTAL HEALTH AND
SUBSTANCE ABUSE SERVICES

The MEDSTAT Group has been awarded 12 multiyear government
research contracts with a total expected value of $5.5 million.
Largest among the contracts awarded is a four-year, $1.9 million
contract with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration (SAMHSA), a branch of the Public Health Service.
MEDSTAT will build a national database of mental health and
substance abuse services and develop a set of reports to analyze
utilization and expenditure patterns. Under a five-year, $1 million
project from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and
Evaluation, MEDSTAT will analyze health care delivered to disabled
individuals enrolled in managed care plans using claims and
encounter data maintained by large employers.

For more information, call MEDSTAT at 313/996-1180.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

TOP HOSPITALS NAMED, NEW INDUSTRY BENCHMARKS
RELEASED

Performance by this year's top hospitals improved significantly over
last year's benchmark performance and over that of the average
U.S. hospital, according to the annual study, 100 Top Hospitals:
Benchmarks for Success.

Conducted by Baltimore-based HCIA Inc. and New York-based
Mercer Health Care Provider Consulting, the annual study identifies
a set of benchmarks for the hospital industry that represents a
balance of high-quality care, efficient delivery and superior financial
performance.

The new benchmark hospitals reduced expenses per adjusted
discharge by 16%, cut length of stay by 9%, lowered mortality by
20% and increased the return on assets by a huge 58% in
comparison to the average U.S. hospital.

If all U.S. hospitals performed as well as these top 100:

+ Expenses would decline by an aggregate $21 billion annually;

+ Inpatient mortality would drop by 24%;

+ Complications would decrease by 17%.

+ Average lengths of stay would decrease by almost a day.

The new study shows a major shift to the South, with 47% of the
new top hospitals being selected in this region, compared to
previous years where the heaviest concentration of top hospitals was
on the West Coast. One-third of the new top hospitals are investor-
owned, compared with 6% in the study released last year. This
year's study illustrates that investor-owned hospitals are achieving
benchmark levels of performance in quality as well as very high
levels of financial strength.

"This gives substance to the growing belief that investor-owned
hospitals will become very formidable competitors in any market
they enter," according to HCIA's analysis.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

For more information on the study, call HCIA at 800/568-3282.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

TOP 100 HOSPITALS

Hospital Name Location

Major teaching hospitals with 400 or more beds in service

The Medical Center at UCSF San Francisco, CA
Evanston Hospital Corp. Evanston, IL
Lutheran General Hospital Park Ridge, IL
Michael Reese Hospital & Medical Center Chicago, IL
University of Chicago Hospitals Chicago, IL
University of Kentucky Hospital Lexington, KY
Beth Israel Hospital Boston, MA
Brigham & Women's Hospital Boston, MA
Butterworth Hospital Grand Rapids, MI
Cleveland Clinic Foundation Cleveland, OH
Ohio State University Hospitals Columbus, OH
University of Cincinnati Hospital Cincinnati, OH
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA
Harris County Hospital District Houston, TX
Hermann Hospital Houston, TX

Teaching hospitals with 250 or more beds in service

Tucson Medical Center Tucson, AR
Tri-City Medical Center Oceanside, CA
Hollywood Medical Center Hollywood, FL
Orlando Regional Medical Center Orlando, FL
St. Vincent's Medical Center Jacksonville, FL
St. Luke's Regional Medical Center Boise, ID
Deaconess Hospital Evansville, IN
St. Mary's Medical Center-Evansville Evansville, IN
William N. Wishard Memorial Hospital Indianapolis, IN
St. Agnes Hospital HealthCare Baltimore, MD
Metrowest Medical Center Framingham, MA
Blodgett Memorial Medical Center Grand Rapids, MI
Rochester Methodist Hospital Rochester, MN
St. Mary's Medical Center Duluth, MN
United Hospital Saint Paul, MN
Christ Hospital Cincinnati, OH
Meridia Hillcrest Hospital Mayfield Heights, OH
Baptist Hospital Nashville, TN
St. Thomas Hospital Nashville, TN
Harris Methodist Hospital-Ft. Worth Ft. Worth, TX
Medical City Dallas Hospital Dallas, TX
Thomason Hospital El Paso, TX
Fairfax Hospital Falls Church, VA
St. Joseph Medical Center Tacoma, WA
Waukesha Memorial Hospital Waukesha, WI

Non-teaching hospitals with 250 or more beds in service

Mesa Lutheran Hospital Mesa, AZ
Good Samaritan Hospital of Santa Clara  San Jose, CA
Torrance Memorial Medical Center Torrance, CA
Aventura Hospital & Medical Center Miami, FL
Columbia Blake Medical Hospital Bradenton, FL
Columbia Brandon Regional Medical Center Brandon, FL
Columbia/HCA North Florida Regional Medical Center Gainesville,
FL
Columbia/JFK Healthcare System, Inc. Atlantis, FL
Columbia Largo Medical Center Largo, FL
Columbia New Port Richey Hospital New Port Richey, FL
Columbia Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point Hudson, FL
Kendall Regional Medical Center Miami, FL
Pompano Beach Medical Center Pompano Beach, FL
University Hospital Tamarac, FL
West Florida Regional Medical Center Pensacola, FL
Coliseum Medical Center Macon, GA
Hamilton Medical Center Dalton, GA
St. Luke's Hospital of New Bedford New Bedford, MA
Foote Memorial Hospital Jackson, MI
Moore Regional Hospital Pinehurst, NC

Rural hospitals with fewer than 250 beds in service

Mt. Graham Community Hospital Safford, AZ
St. Mary's Hospital Cottonwood, ID
Burgess Memorial Hospital Onawa, IA
Osborne County Memorial Hospital Osborne, KS
Meadowview Regional Medical Center Maysville, KY
Wayne County Hospital Monticello, KY
Niobrara Valley Hospital Lynch, NE
Medical Center of Southeastern Oklahoma Durant, OK
St. Benedict Health Center Parkston, SD
Copper Basin Medical Center Copperhill, TN
Dekalb General Hospital Smithville, TN
Fentress County General Hospital Jamestown, IN
River Park Hospital McMinnville, TN
Llano Memorial Hospital Llano, TX
Brigham City Community Hospital Brigham City, UT
Castleview Hospital Price, UT
Othello Community Hospital Othello, WA
Whitman Hospital & Medical Center Colfax, WA
Memorial Hospital of Lafayette County Darlington, WI
Riverton Memorial Hospital Riverton, WY
Urban hospitals with fewer than 250 beds in service
Community Hospital Medical Center Phoenix, AR
Community Hospital-Wickenburg Wickenburg, AZ
Gulf Coast Hospital Panama City, FL
Palms West Hospital Loxahatchee, FL
District Memorial Hospital, a Division of Fairview Forest Lake, MN
St. John's Mercy Hospital Washington, MO
Parkland Medical Center Derry, NH
Franklin Regional Medical Center Louisburg, NC
Heritage Hospital Tarboro, NC
McMinnville Community Hospital McMinnville,OR
Goodlark Medical Center Dickson, TN
Hendersonville Hospital Hendersonville, TN
Mesquite Community Hospital Mesquite, TX
Sun Belt Regional Medical Center Houston, TX
Tri-City Hospital Dallas, TXWalls
Regional Hospital Cleburne, TX
Mountain View Hospital Payson, UT
Culpeper Memorial Hospital Culpeper, VA
Baldwin Hospital Baldwin, WI
New London Family Medical Center New London, WI

Source: 100 Top Hospitals: Benchmarks for Success, 1995, HCIA
and Mercer Health Care Provider Consulting



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

CAREDATA REPORTS PROVIDES INFORMATION ON
CONSUMER SATISFACTION WITH MANAGED CARE

CareData Reports Inc. is a New York-based health care market
research firm and provider of information about consumer
satisfaction with managed care. Its primary clients include managed
care organizations focused on developing and demonstrating high
levels of member satisfaction and successfully positioning
themselves in their competitive markets. Clients also include
employers, providers and manufacturers of health care products--
anyone needing to understand how well consumers' needs are being
met in managed care.

Survey Is Widely Used By Health Care Purchasers

CareData's Annual Survey of Health Plan Member Satisfaction is
widely used by purchasers of health care in the U.S. The firm
maintains a large survey panel of employers involved in managed
care--CareData says that its employer panel is the largest in the
country. It is its relationship with these employers that uniquely
provides the market research firm access to consumers involved in
nearly every type of managed care across the country. Employer
participation, through distribution of the surveys to active
employees, allows for accurate identification of plans, plan types
and plan designs.

Its syndicated regional surveys support the development and
implementation of targeted sales and marketing programs. The data
provide managed care organizations the opportunity to continually
position programs toward newly identified consumer needs.
Information covers the performance of health plans, pharmacy
benefits managements plans, disease management programs and
other managed care services. CareData identified how consumers
select a health plan and the aspects of plan performance that drive re-
enrollment decisions.

Managed Care Is Becoming Largest Consumer Product

"Consumers are measuring their plans according to those things that
demonstrate their plans' concern for their health and respect for their
time," said Tod Cooperman, M.D., president of CareData Reports.
"Consumers' decisions to stay or leave their plans, for example, are
often influenced as much by their interactions with plan
representatives on the phone as by their choice of hospitals.

"Managed care is becoming the largest consumer product in the
nation, and the market is beginning to segment along lines of
satisfaction."

The CareData 1995 Annual Health Plan Member Survey  focused on
five areas--southern California, Houston, Connecticut, New Jersey,
and Greater Cleveland. The 10,272 respondents studied were
employees of 81 regional and national companies such as Kraft
Foods and Southern California Edison. The survey evaluated 33
plans, including those offered by Aetna Health Plans, Blue Cross
Blue Shield, CIGNA Healthplans, Health Systems International,
HIP, Kaiser Permanente, Oxford Health Plans, PacifiCare,
PruCare, MetraHealth, New York Life/Sanus and U.S. Healthcare,
as well as several other regional organizations.

It is part of an annual series of studies conducted by CareData that
evaluates consumer experience and satisfaction with primary care
physicians, specialists, pharmacy benefits, disease prevention,
disease management, customer service and plan administration. It
also identifies the issues that contribute most to satisfaction and
drive consumers' decisions to select and stay with plans. The survey
has been conducted in six geographic areas and will soon be
conducted in approximately 30 additional areas. The survey is
repeated at least every 24 months in each surveyed area. Benchmark
information is specific to plan types and regions.

New Survey On Medicare Health Plan Members

This year CareData began a similar annual survey on Medicare
health plan members, distributed to retirees.

CareData Reports Inc. Address:

666 Third Avenue, 23rd Floor
New York, N.Y. 10017-4036
Phone: 212/883-4055
Fax: 212/972-1821

President: Tod Cooperman, M.D.
Vice President: Jeffry D. Watt
Research Director: Anthony J. Morgan

CareData Reports Inc. was founded in 1993 and is privately held. It
is affiliated with The Wilkerson Group, health care consulting firm,
and Data Development Corp., market research firm.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

MARKETING INTEGRATED DELIVERY SYSTEMS

Industry mavens love the phrase "integrated delivery system."
Consumers choke on it. Integrated care is not just another new
product. It's an entirely new concept, one merger-wary customers
may not like.

The January/February issue of Healthcare Advertising Review
shows how systems across the country--from Sutter Health to
Intracoastal--are introducing themselves. Some explain integrated
care through easy-to-grasp analogies. Others refer to their delivery
system obliquely, emphasizing quality of care in individual facilities.
Demonstrating advantages for the consumer is the goal, and the
challenge, everywhere. The issue also charts changing trends for
children's hospitals and reviews how hospitals are using managed
care companies' open enrollment period to advantage.

In its next issue, Healthcare Advertising Review will present the
"Best of 1995." Any hospital, system or other health care institution
can submit materials for review.

For more information, call HAR at 1-800-328-3211.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

NEW MANAGED GEROPSYCHIATRIC CENTER HELPS
MEDICAL CENTER REPOSITION SERVICES

The January/February issue of Profiles in Healthcare Marketing
features Langhorne, Pa.-based Delaware Valley Medical Center and
its establishment of a managed geropsychiatric unit--the Behavioral
Health Center for Older Adults. From a $1.5 million start-up project
in October 1994, the center has succeeded in repositioning
psychiatric services at Delaware Valley. Just outside of Philadelphia,
the medical center is now seen as the county's premier provider of
geropsychiatric services. Profiles discusses the strategy for
establishing the new center and how the strategy for ongoing
marketing continues to focus on building and maintaining strong
referral relationships.

In addition to seven other profiles of successful marketing
campaigns, this issue of Profiles includes a cumulative index for
1995.

For more information about Profiles in Healthcare Marketing, call 1-
800-328-3211.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HIT FEATURES THE SURGICAL LASER MARKET

Health Industry Today beams into the market leaders in the $200
million-and-growing surgical laser market in its January issue. The
newsletter also analyzes Baxter's big shakeup and the effect of the
recent mega-merger among group purchasing organizations, and
provides a recap of November's Radiological Society of North
America annual meeting.

For more information on HIT, call 303/290-8500.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

NATIONAL HEALTH LAWYERS ASSOCIATION PUBLISHES
LEGAL MANUAL ON HEALTH LAW

The National Health Lawyers Association has published
Fundamentals of Health Law, a comprehensive legal manual written
by Douglas A. Hastings, Gregory M. Luce and Nancy A. Wynstra.

Information on payer/provider issues in the areas of Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement and the legal issues that accompany the
delivery and payment mechanisms in a myriad of managed care
arrangements is provided by Hastings, a partner in the Washington,
D.C.-based law firm Epstein Becker & Green.

Organizational principles and regulatory considerations for health
care providers are the focus of Luce, a partner with the Washington,
D.C.-based law firm of Jones Day Reavis & Pogue. His portion of
the manual provides an explanation of the legal constraints in
hospital transactional matters, including antitrust laws, Medicare
anti-fraud and abuse rules and tax issues regarding exemption or
for-profit status.

Selected legal issues in the operation of a hospital that also
correspond to the legal issues faced in other organizational settings,
such as HMOs, home care settings and nursing homes, are the focus
of Wynstra, executive vice president and general counsel of the
Allegheny Health Education & Research Foundation in Pittsburgh.
Wynstra discusses the relationship between the patient and the
hospital; the hospital and the medical staff; the physician, patient,
and hospital; and the hospital and its employees.

A comprehensive quick reference, this single volume provides a
summary and analysis of fundamental legal issues in the health care
field.

Price of the book is $50 for NHLA members or $60 for
nonmembers.

For more information, call NHLA at 202/833-1100.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

EXCLUSIVE SURVEY ON HOSPITAL AND GROUP
CONTRACTING FOR NEEDLES AND SYRINGES

Hospital Materials Management features an exclusive survey of
hospital and group purchasing contracts and in its January issues
takes a look at needles and syringes.

In the same issue, HMM analyzes the Baxter International move to
split off its hospital supply and distribution business into a $5 billion
stand-alone operation and how that move will affect hospitals and
group purchasing organizations. Another feature highlights the
University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston and its hard look
at reducing costs systemwide. In the operating room alone, the
teaching hospital cut $500,000 in annual supply costs.

For more information on HMM, call 303/290-8500.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

JOINT COMMISSION AND WESTCOTT COMMUNICATIONS
FORM SATELLITE NETWORK

The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations
has formed a partnership with Dallas-based Westcott
Communications to establish the Joint Commission Satellite
Network. Under this three-year partnership, the Joint Commission
will produce ten 60- to 90-minute interactive videoconferences each
year.

The satellite network will communicate current information about
Joint Commission standards requirements, assist hospitals in
preparing for surveys and review successful approaches to
demonstrating standards compliance. Real-life examples of effective
performance improvement strategies will be included in each
broadcast. The live videoconferences will also provide health care
professionals with the opportunity to ask questions and interact with
Joint Commission staff, including surveyors who conduct the actual
on-site surveys, according to the Joint Commission.

The 10 videoconferences scheduled to air in 1996 will cover the
most problematic standards and how scoring is determined.
Subscribers will have the opportunity to provide input and
suggestions in advance of the broadcast to assure that the
information provided addresses their issues. The cost for the
complete one-year series of 10 videoconferences is $4,500.

For subscription information, call 800/711-6549.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

JOINT COMMISSION SATELLITE NETWORK, 1996
VIDEOCONFERENCE SCHEDULE

+ A guide to the 1996 management of the environment of care
standards--February 27

+ Restraint and seclusion: a new approach for hospitals--March 19

+ Competence assessment: your questions answered--April 16

+ Patient rights and organization ethics, education and continuum of
care: key issues and topics--May 14

+ Assessment of patients and care of patients: key issues and topics-
-June 11

+ Complying with the medical staff standards: credentialing and
privileging--July 30

+ Management of information: the medical record and more--August
27

+ Anesthesia and conscious sedation: issues and answers--
September 11

+ Optimizing human resources: maintaining quality in an era of
diminishing resources--October 8

+ How to comply with the standard relating to special patient
populations--November 19



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HOST HEALTH CARE CONSORTIUM LAUNCHES NEW
INFORMATION PROGRAMS

The Healthcare Open Systems and Trials (HOST) consortium is
beginning two new programs. Through a cooperative agreement
with the Dept. of Commerce, HOST will provide communitywide
computerized health care information sharing. And, it will initiate the
nation's first "Open Systems Lab," which establishes a
comprehensive health care information testbed environment.

A joint venture with the Dept. of Commerce's National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST), it is called Healthcare
Information Technology Enabling Community Care (HITECC). It is
a $40 million venture to develop the technical capabilities necessary
to establish the communitywide computerized information sharing
essential to reducing health care costs and inefficiencies. This
extensive partnership combines industry, clinical facilities,
universities, and national laboratories, and will transform
fragmented health care data into an integrated, computerized
information resource.

For more information, call 202/434-4771.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

AHCPR AWARDS 10 RESEARCH GRANTS TO STUDY
CHANGES IN HEALTH CARE MARKETS

The agency for Health Care Policy and Research will award 10
research grants to study changes that are now reshaping America's
health care system as a result of complex market forces. Totaling
$1.4 million for the first year, most of the grants will be completed
in two years.

Currently there is limited information about the types of market
structures and organizations that are emerging in the health care
sector. Less is known about how these structures are influencing the
competitive strategies of health providers and insurers, the quality
and types of care available in the market, or the price and equitable
distribution of services.

Among the key research questions to be addressed by the grantees
are:

+ How has HMO market structure influenced formation of provider
networks?

+ What have been the effects on costs and premiums?

+ How do rural providers perceive and respond to market changes?

+ Do hospital mergers reduce costs?

+ Are savings passed on to consumers as lower prices?

+ Are savings retained by hospitals as higher profits?

"Research will provide purchasers and providers of health care with
an evidence-based understanding of what structural and behavioral
changes are taking place in health care markets, how and why these
changes are occurring, and their implications," said AHCPR
administrator Clifton R. Gaus.

For more information, call AHCPR public affairs at 301/594-1364.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

FRIENDLY HILLS OPENS COLLEGE FOR MANAGED CARE
IN CALIFORNIA

Friendly Hills HealthCare Foundation has opened The College of
Managed Care in La Habra, Calif. The college will initially offer
classes and training in five areas: managed care and integrated health
care delivery systems, utilization management, medical office
management, Medicare risk and pharmaceutical services
management. Health care professional and executives from the
Friendly Hills HealthCare Network will serve as faculty. The
network currently employs more than 400 multispecialty physicians
and allied health professionals in 47 facilities located throughout the
southern California area. Owned by Caremark, Friendly Hills
recently acquired Cigna Healthcare's southern California health care
centers, adding 29 medical offices to the network and quadrupling
its patient base.

For more information, call 310/905-4678.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

FIFTY HEALTH CARE INSTITUTIONS IN 21 STATES
WORKING TO RELIEVE PATIENTS' PAIN

The Mayday Fund has awarded a grant to Education Development
Center, a Newton, Mass.-based not-for-profit organization with
expertise in the design of educational programs for health care
professionals, to assist hospitals and nursing homes improve pain
management.

"Our systems of health care have simply not been organized to
identify, assess and treat something as invisible as pain," said
Fenella Rouse, executive director of The Mayday Fund. "Doctors
are trained to fight disease. They receive inadequate training in the
pharmacological and nonpharmacological management of pain."

Numerous commentators, including the World Health Organization
and the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, have called
upon physicians, nurses and health care systems to do a better job of
providing pain relief to the patients in their care. It has been well
documented that pain relief is inadequate in many hospitals and
clinical settings, despite the fact that we have the knowledge,
medicines, and other techniques necessary to provide adequate pain
relief for patients with nearly all kinds of pain--those experiencing
temporary but acute postoperative pain, those with chronic painful
conditions and those in pain from advanced cancer or other terminal
illnesses. Recent research has underscored that most of the time,
pain is not only unnecessary, but that unrelieved pain can slow the
healing process, interfere with sleep, increase stress, and may result
in longer periods of hospitalization.

The EDC will assist 50 health care institutions that have already
completed another innovative medical education program entitled
Decisions Near the End of Life.

"As Decisions alumni, these organizations are experienced problem
solvers with a commitment to excellent multidisciplinary care," said
Mildred Z. Solomon, senior scientist at EDC and project leader.
"The new Mayday grant is exciting because it will enable us to link,
via a World Wide Web site, some of the country's finest experts in
pain management at hospitals and nursing homes with a
conscience....We hope to create a virtual community of these
dedicated professionals, so that they can learn from one another as
they experiment with better forms of patient care."

For more information, contact Solomon at EDC by calling 617/969-
7100, ext. 2404.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

MEDICAL SCHOOLS RECEIVE GRANTS FOR ADDING
SPIRITUAL TRAINING TO CURRICULUM

Five medical schools will incorporate religious sensitivity into the
practice of medicine by developing courses integrating medicine and
religion. A new grant program--conceived by the Rockville, Md.-
based National Institute for Healthcare Research (NIHR) and funded
by the John Templeton Foundation--has provided $10,000 each to
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Albert Einstein
College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, Ohio State University
College of Medicine, Pennsylvania State University College of
Medicine and East Tennessee State University's James H. Quillen
College of Medicine.

According to recent Gallup Poll surveys, Americans are highly
religious--95% believe in god, 57% pray daily and 42% attend
worship services weekly. Patient spirituality has been found to
influence not only illness prevention, coping, treatment and care, but
how patients define and view their illness as well. While more than
75% of patients recently surveyed believed that their physician
should address spiritual issues as part of their care, these same
patients reported that spiritual and religious concerns were never
included or addressed in their care.

For more information on the faith and medicine program, call NIHR
at 800/580-6447.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

LARGE MEDICAL GROUPS MAKE INTEGRATED SYSTEMS
COMPETITIVE

Medical groups have the potential to control provider sponsored
organizations and integrated health care delivery systems. And all
indications are that their involvement will make their integrated
systems extremely competitive with systems where physicians have
less control and ownership.

New utilization data indicate that it is more important to have large
medical groups in integrated systems than to have the systems led by
physician executives, although both large groups and physician
leadership may benefit integrated systems. Thus, for integrated
systems to dominate their markets, they will need to consolidate
primary care physicians into large groups and put them under
capitated contracts as quickly as possible, the new data from the
three leading trade associations for medical groups suggest.

Large medical group practices contracting with and owned by
integrated health care systems are using hospital services much less
than smaller groups and solo practitioners, according to the Medical
Group Practice Digest 1995, which is sponsored by Hoechst Marion
Roussel, Kansas City, Mo. Managing utilization is critical to
controlling costs and premiums charged by HMOs.

The large groups that are members of the Unified Medical Group
Assn., for example, reduced average hospital days per 1,000 HMO
enrollees by 44% to 151 in 1994 from 269 in 1984, according to
UMGA data published in the digest, which is part of Hoechst
Marion Roussel's Managed Care Digest Series. The average hospital
utilization for all HMOs was 297 days for non-Medicare enrollees.
UMGA members reported 872 hospital days per 1,000 Medicare
enrollees, compared with 1,698 for all HMOs.

UMGA members' enrollees' average length of stay in 1994 was
3.05 days for non-Medicare members and 4.44 days for Medicare
members. This compared with 4.2 days for all HMOs for non-
Medicare enrollees and 6.6 days for Medicare enrollees in all
HMOs.

UMGA has 86 medical group members that represent more than
10,000 physicians; most are in California, which is a highly
competitive managed care market. The average UMGA group had
119 physicians in 1994, up 33% from 1993. The medical groups
covered 4.5 million capitated enrollees. Medical group members
covered an average of 51,646 HMO enrollees per group, and IPA
member groups averaged 60,000 enrollees per group, according to
UMGA data published in the digest. The groups reported that an
average of 57% of their revenues came from capitated contracts,
which give them strong incentives to control hospital utilization.

Groups are rushing to integrate with other providers. Sixty percent
of the group practices in the American Group Practice Assn. expect
to be in joint ventures with hospitals by sometime in 1996,
according to a survey conducted by the American Group Practice
Assn. for the digest. This compared with 27% of AGPA members
in such joint ventures in 1994. AGPA represents 250 mostly large
multispecialty groups representing 25,000 physicians. AGPA
members reported a median of 20% of total net medical revenue
from prepaid or capitated managed care contracts, according to the
digest. A survey by the Medical Group Management Assn. showed
that 53% of its more than 6,500 members had some at-risk managed
care revenue and that the groups reported a median of 17.9% of
revenue from capitated contracts.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

PROVIDER SPONSORED ORGANIZATIONS WILL BE
CAPITATED, BACKED BY RICH COMPANIES

Provider sponsored organizations and integrated health care systems
seeking Medicare and Medicaid at-risk contracts are likely to have a
lot of capitated revenue and be well-capitalized.

Even in 1994, when Medicare and Medicaid enrollees accounted for
relatively small percentages of their businesses, HMOs capitated
76.4% of their primary care physicians, 45.9% of their specialists,
34.7% of their ancillary providers and 33.8% of their hospitals,
according to the HMO-PPO Digest 1995, which is part of the
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.-sponsored Managed Care Digest
Series. Data for the digest were collected by SMG Marketing
Group, Chicago, and the digest was written and produced by The
Business Word Inc., publishers of Health Care Strategic
Management.

PSOs that are backed by integrated health care systems, national
hospital chains, large health maintenance organization chains and
physician practice management companies appear to be in the best
position to seek Medicare and Medicaid risk contracts.

This is because it will require a lot of capital to get into the Medicare
and Medicaid risk contracting business.

Currently, Medicare risk contracting is dominated by four large,
national health maintenance organization companies that have almost
80% of the Medicare at-risk business, according to the Health Care
Financing Administration. They are Kaiser, Humana, FHP and
PacifiCare. HMOs enroll 8% to 9% of the 37 million Medicare
beneficiaries, and that could soar to 30% to 50% during the next five
to 10 years, depending on how Congress changes the Medicare
program over the years. If medical savings accounts are included in
the Medicare Preservation Act of 1995, which is part of the Budget
Reconciliation Act being negotiated by Congress and the president at
press time, HMO growth could be slowed considerably. MSAs
would make fee-for-service providers more attractive to Medicare
enrollees and would allow fee-based providers to retain a bigger
share of those enrollees.

The tables on this page show what integrated systems are likely to
look like, if current HMO contracting patterns are a harbinger of
what is to come. In 1994, according to the HMO-PPO Digest, the
average HMO used 28 acute care hospitals, three psychiatric
hospitals, 2,142 affiliated physicians, 653 primary care physicians
and 1,489 specialists. Most HMOs operate in large metropolitan
statistical areas. Integrated systems may compete by being more
selective in their use of providers.

In 1994, according to the HMO-PPO Digest, hospitals owned equity
in 9% of the industry's HMOs, and 16 HMOs (7%) reported that
they were part of integrated systems. The digest defined integrated
systems as organizations made up of two or more provider
organizations that have formal agreements to integrate or share the
delivery of health-related services. About 32% of the HMOs in
integrated systems were owned by hospitals. Newer and smaller
HMOs were most likely to have hospital ownership in 1994.

But many hospitals involved in developing integrated systems are in
the process of developing HMO-like products for their local
commercial, Medicare and Medicaid markets.

These new integrated systems and small HMOs are challenging
large, established HMOs and HMO chains. In 1994, according to
the digest, HMOs with 250,000 or more members covered 25.7
million members, or 46.7% of all enrollees. Plans with 100,000
enrollees or more accounted for just under three-quarters of all HMO
enrollees. The nation's 25 largest HMO plans enrolled 33% of all
HMO enrollees in 1994.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-14</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-4</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh73.html 205.156.212.5 19970115022932 text/html 145497
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:27:18 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:31 GMT
Content-length: 145307
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh73.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet <BR>
JANUARY, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>Data Management Briefs</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1252 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>Assessing the role of drug companies</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(816 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Working for the Common Good</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2612 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>The Scientific Method</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(689 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Newsline</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(773 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>The Big Get Bigger in Latest Clearinghouse Consolidations</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(772 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Idaho CHIN Wins Big in New Round of Federal Grants</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1065 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>Digest</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(673 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>Earning the Public Trust</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1493 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>"What Role Will Speech Recognition Play in Health Care?"</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2499 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>The market leader sticks with today's technology</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(228 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>The next generation of software</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(776 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>A Healthy Year For Electronic Claims Growth</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1977 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>Facing the Outpatient Coding Challenge</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2146 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>Putting the Pieces Together</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(3351 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>Information technology essential to HMO's disease management strategy</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(535 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Data Management Briefs


* Columbia Pharmacy Solutions, the Greensburg, Pa.-based pharmacy benefits
manager for Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., has entered a preliminary agreement
with MedE America Corp., Mitchel Field, N.Y., to roll out an electronic
prescription program.  Columbia/HCA, the nation's largest investor-owned
hospital chain, plans to market the program to other providers nationally.

* The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, The Mayo Foundation, The Midwest Rural
Telemedicine Consortium and Texas Children's Hospital have contributed $5,000
each to create The Center for Telemedicine Law.  The Washington, D.C.-based
resource center was designed to explore legal issues that could present
barriers to the increased use of telemedicine nationwide.  Providers, vendors
and others interested in telemedicine issues are invited to join the center
for annual membership fees ranging from $3,500 to $7,000.

* IDX Systems Corp., a Burlington, Vt.-based practice management software
company, has filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to offer more than four million shares of stock at $15 to $17 per
share.  The company is expanding into the clinical information services area
and is testing its Clinical Information System, which automates information
gathering related to treatment.

* The Visible Woman-a three-dimensional, computer-generated female
"cadaver"-has joined her male counterpart on the Internet as part of the
ongoing Visible Human Project by the National Library of Medicine.  Created
from thousands of images collected with radiographic and photographic
techniques, the Visible Woman will enable scientists and medical professionals
to view and study female anatomy in detail.  Information on the project is
available at the National Library of Medicine's World Wide Web page
(http:\\www.nlm.nih.gov).

* Donald Simborg, M.D., a pioneer in electronic health information software,
has joined with two partners to form KnowMed Systems, a Berkeley, Calif.-based
company that will create a data entry and display product that physicians can
use as a replacement for paper charts.

* CIS Technologies, Tulsa, Okla., is the third claims clearinghouse to obtain
national accreditation of its EDI services from the Electronic Healthcare
Network Accreditation Commission.  Since the program began in early 1995, The
Halley Exchange, Bartlett, Ill., and Synaptek, Oklahoma City, also have been
accredited.

* Systems Plus Inc., the Mountain View, Calif.-based publisher of The Medical
Manager physician practice management software, and PCS Health Systems Inc., a
Scottsdale, Ariz.-based pharmacy benefit manager, have agreed to jointly
develop PCS Link.  The software package will give physician users of The
Medical Manager access to two PCS services, Rx Inquiry and Rx Authorization,
for electronically filing prescriptions.

* Visteon Corp.  is the new name for EMed Systems Corp.  The Orlando,
Fla.-based company has introduced BigVision, an ambulatory care software
system for large medical groups that covers clinical, financial and
operational information.  Visteon also closed a $4 million venture capital
financing arrangement with InterWest Partners and Canaan Partners.

* James Pickering, formerly vice president of managed care at National
Electronic Information Corp., Secaucus, N.J., has been named president of
Med-Link, Kendall Park, N.J.  He succeeds Anil Kapoor, who remains with the
company as vice president of administration.

* Managed Care On-Line, a Modesto, Calif.-based on-line service for health
care professionals involved with managed care, has introduced a comprehensive
database of almost 200 managed care and health care-related World Wide Web
sites.  The web site for the service is located at http:\\www.mcol.com.

* HPR Inc., Boston, and Resource Information Management Systems, Naperville,
Ill., have formed an alliance to broaden the market for HPR's Episode Profiler
and Patterns Review software to include RIMS' third-party administrator and
self-insured employer clients.  The HPR software tracks services physicians
provide during the course of care for specific illnesses, as well as general
physician practice patterns.

* Fred Rothenberg & Associates Inc., developers of EZ-Cap managed care
software, has merged with Resource Health Partners, an Exton, Pa.-based health
care software company.  Rothenberg will operate as a unit of Resource Health
Partners.

n PeopleSoft Inc., Pleasanton, Calif., and Shared Medical Systems Corp.,
Malvern, Pa., have entered an agreement under which SMS will market, sell,
install and support PeopleSoft's client/server general accounting, materials
management and human resources/payroll software to SMS' customers and
prospects.

* Phamis Inc., Seattle, developer of the Lastword health care information
system, will distribute a point-of-care critical care information system from
Picis S.A.

* Advanta Systems Inc., a Rockville, Md.-based managed care company, has
changed its name to Amisys Managed Care Systems Inc.  The move is in reaction
to a challenge to the Advanta trademark.  The renamed company planned an
initial public stock offering for December.

* 3M Health Information Systems, Murray, Utah, has introduced a pre-release
version of 3M Coding Reference Software, which will be available early this
year for use with the company's new 3M Coding and Reimbursement System for
Windows.  The software provides on-line coding reference materials linked to
coding pro-cesses in the Windows-based system.  The company also has
introduced 3M All Patient Refined Diagnosis-Related Groups Software, Version
12.0.

* The American Medical Association, Chicago, has endorsed PulseCard, Overland
Park, Kan., as its preferred vendor for card processing services.  PulseCard
will offer electronic credit card processing services to all 475,000 AMA
members as well as 125,000 affiliated members.

* Dynamic Healthcare Technologies Inc., Maitland, Fla., has announced
DynamicVision, a multimedia, client/server electronic health records system,
will be available in June.  The cornerstone of the system is International
Business Machines Corp.'s document imaging software, Medical RecordsPlus/400.

* Lawson Software, Minneapolis, has signed an agreement to integrate and
resell Dallas-based Sterling Software's Gentran EDI software for AS/400 and
Unix platforms with Lawson's enterprisewide business applications.

* Emtek Health Care Systems Inc., Tempe, Ariz., has signed a cooperative
marketing agreement with Medasys Digital Systems Corp., Norcross, Ga., to
market Dx Multimodality, Medasys' medical imaging product, as part of Emtek's
Continuum 2000 clinically based hospital information system.

* Intelus, a Rockville, Md.-based health information management systems
vendor, has been acquired by SunGard Data Systems Inc., a Wayne, Pa.-based
computer service and application software company.  Intelus has introduced
ChartFlo 2000 Clinical Data Management, a client/server, Windows-based system
with modules for medical records abstracting, utilization review, quality
assurance, risk management, infection control and other clinically related
departments.

* Clinitec International Inc., Horsham, Pa., has formed an alliance with
NYNEX, New York, as part of the NYNEX Telemedicine Solutions program.
Clinitec produces NextGen, a pen-based electronic medical records system for
medical practices and provider networks.

* HealthVision Corp., Santa Rosa, Calif., has signed an agreement with
Software Technologies Corp., Braintree, Mass., to remarket STC's DataGate
interface engine as part of its Care Vision Patient Focused Management System,
a computerized patient record/clinical information system.

* Context Software Systems Inc., Burr Ridge, Ill., has introduced CodeLink for
Windows.  The program provides a complete listing of ICD-9-CM, CPT and HCPCS
codes with specialty-specific links between procedure and diagnosis codes.

* Dairyland Computer and Consulting, Glenwood, Minn., has signed an agreement
with Pace Health Management Systems Inc., West Des Moines, Iowa, to market
Pace's Clinical Information System.  The system will enable Dairyland to offer
a clinical pathway/managed care system that captures and reports patient
information from the point of care.

* Micro Healthsystems Inc., West Orange, N.J., has changed its name to US
Servis Inc.  The new name is intended to reflect the company's strategy to
provide comprehensive management services to physician delivery systems and
outpatient networks affiliated with integrated delivery systems.  Also, the
company has transferred stock and warrants in exchange for the Chicago-based
Frontenac Co.'s investment of $6 million.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Assessing the role of drug companies


Health care provider and payer organizations offer mixed reviews about the
entrance of pharmaceutical companies into the disease management market.

Some hail the companies' decisions to provide disease management services,
saying the corporate backing gives credence to the movement and brings the
drug companies' strong information systems and research capabilities to the
field.  Others complain that pharmaceutical companies' so-called disease
management initiatives are only thinly veiled sales and marketing strategies
to sell more of their products and, because of that, their efforts can't be
trusted.

While it remains to be seen whether these hopes or fears are exaggerated, it's
clear that consolidation and the growth of managed care are affecting
pharmaceutical companies' strategies.

Diversification effort

Many drug companies have merged in recent years to form pharmaceutical giants.
These include Glaxo Wellcome Inc., formed in early 1995 by the merger of Glaxo
Inc.  and Burroughs Wellcome; Bristol-Myers Squibb, the result of the merger
of Bristol-Myers and Squibb; and the acquisition of Upjohn Co.  by Pharmacia
AB.

In addition to this horizontal integration, the companies are seeking to
vertically integrate to lessen their dependence on drug sales and to evolve
into health services companies.

As purchasers increasingly question drug costs and seek lower prices, the
pharmaceutical companies are diversifying into many new areas to find new
sources of revenue.  Many have started disease management initiatives to meet
payers' business demands.

For example, Glaxo is seeking to fashion its disease management initiative so
that it encompasses care management, delivering services "beyond just the
period of illness," says Pieter Muntendam, M.D., director of healthcare
management for the Glaxo Research Institute, Research Triangle Park, N.C.  In
that way, Glaxo can play a role in integrating care delivery for specific
diseases, such as asthma and cancer, and provide valuable coordination between
providers and patients, even those recuperating at home, he says.

Pharmaceutical companies are initiating disease management programs so they
can play a role sooner in the care delivery process.  In that way, they're
more likely to share in capitated managed care payments as a value-added
service provider, rather than just supplying the drugs and being dependent on
providers for payment.

Drug makers have expertise in developing treatment plans and in educating
physicians and patients on the proper prescribing and utilization of drugs.
Also, they have experience conducting large-scale studies, and data from those
efforts is often large enough to support outcomes research.

Although some of the companies' diversification efforts hold the promise of
further bolstering disease management research, they're raising red flags
about the drug makers' motives.

Several pharmaceutical companies have acquired pharmacy benefits managers in
recent months, both to vertically integrate and to gain access to the millions
of covered lives the pharmacy benefits managers represent.  Eli Lilly and Co.
has acquired PCS Health Systems, Merck & Co.  purchased Medco Containment
Services, and Smith Kline Beecham acquired Diversified Health Care Services.

With data on millions of people from the benefits managers, pharmaceutical
companies believe they will have huge amounts of information, both clinical
and financial, from which to build evidence-based disease management programs.
Also, pharmaceutical companies plan to use the existing electronic networks of
pharmacy benefits managers when building their disease management programs.

Some managed care organizations are turning to pharmaceutical companies for
disease management services, or they may enter joint ventures to develop
studies on disease management.  For example, Avon, Conn.-based Value Health
Inc., a provider of specialty care management programs, is working on disease
management initiatives with Pfizer Inc.  and Johnson & Johnson.  Value Health
executives say they see the ventures as ways of diversifying into new areas of
medical services.

Limiting factors

Many large HMOs and integrated delivery systems will use their own information
systems to develop disease management programs, rather than turn to the
pharmaceutical giants, says Richard Kipp, senior consulting actuary for
Millman & Robertson, a Radnor, Pa.-based consulting firm.

The market for large-scale disease management may be limited for at least two
reasons.  First, many providers contend that treatment protocols, a basic
building block of disease management programs must be developed by those who
will use them, namely the doctors.  Second, as programs are developed for
diseases that are common targets of disease management, such as asthma and
chronic heart failure, the approaches could be standardizing, reducing the
need for outside organizations to develop and implement them.

Pharmaceutical companies' disease management efforts may be tainted by fears
surrounding their acquisition of pharmacy benefits managers.  Providers now
are leery because they say pharmaceutical makers' hidden agenda is to sell
more of their own products.

Julie Bonello, CIO at Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago, doesn't believe
pharmaceutical companies should or will play a large role in disease
management.  "I think pharmaceutical companies could augment disease
management, but it should be driven by physicians," she says.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Working for the Common Good


Friends and colleagues of Larry Blevins delight in teasing him about his
passion for technology.  "They tell me that if I have a garage sale, they want
to know because I've always got so many gadgets," says Blevins, senior vice
president of information technology at Harris Methodist Health System, an
integrated health care delivery system based in Arlington, Texas.  "I love to
take things apart to see how they work."

That's just the nature of Blevins, a man with an insatiable curiosity-"when I
cease to learn, I'm ceasing to live"-and an intense desire to use his
knowledge to help others.

Information technology is fascinating, he says, but its value lies in its
ability to solve problems and improve the common good.  That's the bottom line
for Blevins, who emphasizes the need to give something back to his community.

Community focus

Altruistic or not, sensitivity to a community need is vital to the success of
many ventures, particularly community health information networks that enable
the on-line, real-time exchange of a variety of data, he says.

Without a common focus on an unmet community need, CHIN initiatives won't
survive the political or economic squabbles that are almost certain to erupt
among would-be participants, Blevins says.

"Look at all of the CHINs that have been started," he says.  "They've all had
wonderful intentions but then often lose focus.  Why are they doing a CHIN?
Is it because of a community need or a desire to gain competitive advantage
and increase profitability?  If it's the latter, then it's extremely difficult
to bring about anything that will really work because everyone is viewing it
as a competitive tool."

CHIN developers would have more success, Blevins says, if they first
identified a community need affecting all participants and then built a
network to meet that need.  "If you bring it from a community need, from a
social need, you have a common bond."

Blevins says that approach is working in Tarrant County, where he is heading
an effort by 40 social service agencies to build a CHIN.  A desire to increase
the immunization rate of children is one major reason behind the networking
initiative.

The electronic exchange of information via the network will enable social
workers and providers to develop methods to ensure that more children receive
immunizations.

"This is a good example of meeting a community need," Blevins says.  "Believe
me, serving the community is not a competitive or political issue if you're
serving from the heart."

Community service has long been a guiding light for Blevins, who initially
selected a career in law enforcement because he thought it represented a way
for him to repay his community for providing Little League and other
activities in which he had participated as a boy.

Fate intervened, arresting his career with the Arkansas State Police about a
year after it began.

During a trip to visit his brother in Wichita, Kan., Blevins, on a lark, took
a computer aptitude test.  Seventy-two people took the test, administered by a
local aerospace company.  Only Blevins got a job offer.

"I thought it was interesting, and I've always been curious about things,"
says Blevins, who began learning the intricacies of International Business
Machines Corp.'s models 1620 and 1130 as well as other leading mainframe
computers of the mid-1960s.

"I took advantage of an opportunity that was very unusual at the time," he
says.  "It wasn't like I thought all my life I'd want to be a computer person.
In fact, I never had a computer class in school.  But once I started reading
about it, my curiosity became piqued, and I continued down the road."

That road led two years later to a job at Sperry Univac Corp.  (now known as
Unisys Corp.), which provided a different exposure to computers.  While
Blevins had seen computers used in highly focused applications, such as
testing parts for aircraft, his new role gave him a business perspective on
computers.

"I loved solving problems and interacting with customers so much that I moved
to the world trade division, which would dispatch me anywhere they had a
particular problem, whether it was customer dissatisfaction or a machine that
wouldn't work.  It was my job to work through that and get it back on track."

Recognizing a need

Blevins worked with customers in a variety of industries.  But, in health care
in particular, he recognized a need for far more computerization than existed
at the time.

"I thought the computer could serve health care in a much broader manner than
just financials," he says.  "I could see the movement of a tremendous amount
of paper and the need to be able to share information pertinent to care."

In 1972, Blevins got his chance to bring more computerization to health care.
He joined 442-bed Sparks Regional Medical Center in Fort Smith, Ark., as vice
president of information services.

For the next 10 years, he guided the development, operation and maintenance of
the medical center's information systems.  In the evenings, he taught computer
science and management classes at College of the Ozarks, a local community
college.

"I like to interact with our young people because they have inquisitive
minds," he says.  "They're not necessarily polluted with ideas that have
already been established.  They're curious, and they keep the older generation
young with their questions."

Blevins enjoyed his job, his teaching and his circle of friends, but, in 1982,
he couldn't resist an opportunity to have an even greater impact by shaping
the automation initiatives of Harris Methodist, a much larger health care
organization with aspirations of becoming an integrated health care delivery
system.

"In visiting with Harris Methodist President Ron Smith and listening to his
vision of where he felt that health care was going and where he wanted to lead
Harris Methodist Health System, I knew that I would like to be a part of
that," he says.

"To do what we wanted to do, we needed to see significant, measurable change
in information technology areas," Smith says.  "We saw in Larry the ability to
lead us in the development of technology that would allow us to meet our
market objectives."

Automation strides

Blevins believed he could make a major contribution by building an electronic
infrastructure that would link the various providers that Smith envisioned
adding to Harris Methodist.  Such an infrastructure would support the on-line,
real-time collection, storage and exchange of administrative, financial and
clinical information necessary to achieve efficiencies, reduce costs and
improve the quality of patient care.

But that would be a big job.  Like many other health care organizations,
Harris Meth-odist had not pushed automation much beyond administrative and
financial transactions, with information exchanges typically occurring in
batches.

"We needed to develop a clinical direction, so we mapped out a master patient
index and a repository with data related to treatment or any other interaction
with the system," Blevins says.  "We didn't know we were building the basics
of what is being defined today.  We were just defining the information we
needed, how we needed to move it and how it could benefit the community and
the organization."

Today, Harris Methodist operates eight hospitals with 1,297 beds, a managed
care plan with 200,000 enrollees, a physician hospital organization and a
number of other provider sites.  All are linked electronically by a local area
network that provides on-line, real-time access not only to computer-based
patient records but also data bases built exclusively for clinical analysis
and outcomes research.

Although it was one of the first integrated health care delivery systems to
build an enterprisewide network and to begin work on computer-based patient
records, Harris Methodist "still has a long way to go," Blevins says.  "In
fact, I don't think we'll ever be done.  It's not like a house where you put a
roof on and you're done.  The end point is not definable because the
environment in today's business world and tomorrow's business world is not
definable."

Blevins, who is part of Harris Methodist's senior management team, is credited
with the development of information technology that has contributed to his
organization's growth.  "We value him highly," Smith says.  "The effectiveness
of his leadership is one of our strategic enablers."

Fellow CIOs also speak highly of Blevins.  "Larry has been a valued friend and
colleague for a number of years," says Larry Grandia, vice president of
information systems at Intermountain Health Care, an integrated health care
delivery system based in Salt Lake City.  "He has done some impressive things,
applying technology in very important ways.  There is no question that he has
made significant contributions to the industry and to the professional
organizations to which he has donated his time."

Grandia and Blevins are members of many of the same professional
organizations, including Health Information System Executive Association, a
30-member organization open only to the nation's top CIOs.

With change being a constant both in health care and technology, Blevins is
wary of designing obsolescence into an information system.

"Know that whatever you install today in 90 days won't represent the
technology of tomorrow and, therefore, probably won't represent the solution
of tomorrow," he says.

Health care organizations can help guard against obsolescence by selecting
information technologies that provide flexibility.  Blevins is a big fan of
object-oriented programming, for example, because its modular nature enables
computer programmers to change codes easily.

"We incorporated it in our interface engine design," he says.  "It saves us a
lot of time and trouble in rewriting communication structures for different
information systems."

Open systems

Flexibility also makes open systems the logical choice for health care
organizations that want to be able to use the products and services of
multiple vendors.

"Proprietary systems lock you into a particular type of company and the way it
is employing the technology," Blevins says.  "We didn't allow that to happen.
We still don't today."

Health care organizations must be careful, though, when shopping for open
systems.

"Many vendors say they are Health Level Seven-compliant, for example, and a
look at the basics may indicate that, yes, they are.  However, because of the
way in which they have interpreted HL7, their products may not be plug and
play," he says.

That does not mean, however, that Harris Methodist believes it must program
everything itself.  That's expensive and time-consuming, says Blevins, who
prefers to build long-term relationships with vendors that are willing to work
closely with Harris Methodist to meet its needs.

Among the companies with which Harris Methodist has long-term relationships
are Compaq Computer Corp., IBM Corp., Microsoft Corp.  and Ungermann-Bass Inc.

To foster long-term partnerships, Blevins recommends structuring agreements in
which the customer and vendor share both in the risks and the rewards.

For example, Harris Methodist has at least one agreement in which a software
vendor's licensing fees are based on revenues attributable to the use of the
software.  If the health care system makes more money by using the software,
the vendor earns more in licensing fees.

An incentive-based agreement such as this one gives vendors a vested interest
in Harris Methodist's future and encourages the development of long-term
relationships, Blevins says.

"I need someone that is there for the long term.  I need someone that has an
investment in my future," he says.  "That may mean changing the way we do
licensing, for instance.  Why not license per patient day or per member per
month cost?  Why not share in that deviation of business?  I'm not saying all
those ideas are right, but we should involve more of the vendors as partners
because that's really what we are."

Forming and maintaining long-term relationships with trusted vendors is vital
in weathering the changes that are sure to come in health care, says Blevins,
who jokes that CIO stands for "change information officer."

Preparing for change

"You're always designing to position yourself for change," he says.  "You
should never be designing for the problem as it's stated.  You should be
designing for the change of that problem because that, I can assure you, is
what will happen."

While change information officer is a good description of a CIO, a better
title is continuous improvement officer, says Blevins, a practitioner of the
management theory that emphasizes constant evaluation and improvement of
systems and procedures.

"A CIO must be a combination of a business and a technical person," he says.
"He or she must be a change agent as well as a business person with a
technical understanding."

And ideally a CIO applies those skills to health problems besetting a
community, which is what Blevins is doing in his work to develop a CHIN for
the area's health care and social service providers.

"Harris Methodist is a business and we must make money, but we really do have
a commitment to the community," Blevins says.  "I am part of that community.
My daughter is part of that community.  My grandchildren will be part of that
community.  And hopefully their grandchildren will be part of that community."

"Building something that helps the community, working with a group of
professionals that increases my knowledge of health care issues, those are the
kinds of things that make me want to get up in the morning and come to work,"
Blevins says.  "Where I put my time is very important, and, quite frankly, if
I didn't enjoy my job, if I didn't look forward to building, if I didn't look
forward to doing something today that gave back, I would change jobs."


Devising a practical CHIN strategy

When Larry Blevins shared his idea for a community health information network
with provider organizations in the Fort Worth, Texas area, he got a cool
reception.  Undaunted, Blevins started over, developing a new network-building
strategy and rallying support from local social service agencies instead.

Forty social service agencies, all funded in part by the United Way of
Metropolitan Tarrant County, have agreed to form what's being called a "human
service information network" to address health and social needs in the county.
Blevins remains hopeful that area health care providers eventually will join
the network.

Among the community projects that the emerging CHIN could address, Blevins
says, are tracking childhood immunization rates, measuring the outcomes of
certain cancer treatments, analyzing health care trends to develop wellness
programs and sharing computer-based patient records.

The networking project originated a year ago when Harris Methodist Health
System, abandoned plans to lead the development of a CHIN focusing on health
care financial and clinical transactions.  Harris dropped its original plans
because of its competitors' wariness about Harris' motives, concerns over
cost, widespread confusion among potential participants about what a CHIN is
and the largely unsuccessful experiences of CHIN developers in other markets,
Blevins says.

Faced with the lack of support in the health care community but convinced that
an electronic network could help meet public health needs, Blevins turned to
the United Way membership.  The strategy was a natural because Blevins serves
as chairman of the United Way's information technology committee.  "Where
better to start than the social service agencies that are funded to help our
community?"  he says.

United Way is developing the network to connect the agencies it funds and to
eventually build links to health care players, such as Harris Methodist, large
employers and not-for-profit agencies.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

The Scientific Method


For several years, librarians at the health sciences libraries of the Big 10
universities tried to gather relevant information on the Internet.  But
finding Internet-based information through Internet or World Wide Web search
engines proved disappointing to the librarians because engines search
primarily by terms only, finding plenty of essential as well as irrelevant
information during a single search.

To put an end to the time-consuming and often frustrating search process for
both themselves and their patrons, the librarians began developing Web home
pages that would cull and display or point the way to information on the
various health sciences fields.

But when the librarians realized they were duplicating efforts of their peers,
they decided to band together to create and maintain one Internet-based health
sciences information resource for everyone, including non-university health
care professionals.  The result is HealthWeb, a Web page that eventually will
present myriad educational, clinical and statistical data covering the three
dozen health sciences fields, running the gamut from general surgery and
occupational therapy to health care administration and informatics.

HealthWeb's mission is to present an easy-to-use and focused resource that
points health care Internet users to health sciences data that they otherwise
might have difficulty finding, says Julia Kelly, reference librarian at the
University of Minnesota Bio-Medical Library in Minneapolis and co-facilitator
of HealthWeb.

"The material included in HealthWeb is selected by librarians and health
sciences staff based on its significance to a particular health sciences
field," Kelly says.  "Entries in HealthWeb include descriptive annotations to
help users fully and immediately understand what information is being
presented.  Users get a one-stop shopping place for all their Internet-based
health sciences information needs."

The "one stop" is HealthWeb's reason for being, as searching the vast and
highly disorganized Internet for a specific piece of information is not easy.

"I do Internet searches for a living, and it is a mess," Kelly says.  "Search
engines are not systematic.  People mounting data on the Internet do not title
their data in effective ways.  Ultimately, searching is a hit-or-miss,
time-consuming chore.  HealthWeb alleviates the search process for users and
provides them a clear guide to the information they need."

Divide and conquer

Because the health sciences represent an enormous industry, participating
universities in HealthWeb opted to divide and conquer the task of creating the
health sciences Web page.  Each school is responsible for "areas of
excellence," health sciences fields for which individual universities are best
suited because of their resources and expertise.  The universities create the
field-specific Web pages that users can access via the HealthWeb home page.

Field-specific Web pages that now are up and running include:  a nursing page,
created and maintained by the University of Michigan; a minority health page,
by Michigan State University; and a radiology page, by Indiana University.

Sites due early this year include:  a consumer health page, by the University
of Illinois-Chicago; and an oncology page, by Indiana University.  Sites that
could be added later this year include:  a health care administration page by
the University of Michigan and a health informatics page by either the
University of Michigan or Indiana University.

Northwestern University maintains the HealthWeb home page.  Other
participating universities include:  the University of Minnesota, the
University of Iowa, the University of Wisconsin, Purdue University, Ohio State
University, Penn State University and the University of Chicago.

To access information, users enter the address for HealthWeb,
http:\\www.ghsl.nwu.edu\healthweb, into a Web browser to get to the home page.
From there, users select a field-specific page that reflects their interests.

"A nurse can select the hyperlink from the home page to the nursing page to
access information from a listing of all the Ph.D.  programs in nursing in the
nation to newsletter articles to consumer information from professional
associations.  And it is all free of charge," Kelly says.

As more field-specific pages are created over time, the usefulness of
HealthWeb will grow.  "Internet resources need to be found and evaluated for
their usefulness," Kelly says.  "HealthWeb does that so health care Internet
users don't have to."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Newsline


A bill designed to protect the privacy of medical records has created
divisiveness in the health care community.  Consumer advocacy groups, some
clinicians and others argue that the Medical Records Confidentiality Act of
1995 doesn't go far enough.  But proponents say the bill represents a
tremendous improvement over the current patchwork of state legislation on the
issue.

Critics of the bill say it contains too many exemptions to prohibitions
against transmitting patient-identifiable information.  And they contend that
the bill encourages the development of huge medical databases for the purpose
of further disseminating identifiable information, although nowhere in the
bill are these databases sanctioned.

Leading the opposition are the 40,000-member American Psychiatric Association
and two consumer advocacy groups:  The Center for the Study of Responsive Law,
formed by Ralph Nader, and the 75,000-member Public Citizen group.

The American Medical Association and the American Civil Liberties Union have
reservations about the legislation but haven't taken formal positions.

And two organizations, which were among 13 that signed a letter to the U.S.
Senate in October supporting the bill, now are having second thoughts about
that support.  Leaders of both groups-Bazelon Center for Mental Health Care
and New York Public Interest Research Group-say they signed the letter in
support of the concept and intent of the legislation, but the bill as written
is seriously flawed.

In contrast to critics who say the bill doesn't go far enough, some groups
that helped draft the bill say it goes too far in certain areas.

For instance, the Association for Electronic Health Care Transactions, an
electronic data interchange trade group, has serious reservations about some
provisions.  Language that places claims clearinghouses under strict
requirements to receive patient authorization to transmit claims and related
data electronically is unrealistic and would cause the price of claims
processing to skyrocket, says Jeanne Schulte Scott, chair of the association.

The provisions

Sponsored by Sen.  Robert Bennett (R-Utah), S.  1360 gives all Americans the
right to examine their medical records and request corrections.  The bill also
identifies persons or organizations that come into contact with identifiable
medical information as "health information trustees" and lists circumstances
under which information may be released.

Supporters of the measure include the Center for Democracy and Technology,
Association for Electronic Health Care Transactions, AIDS Action Council,
American Health Information Management Association, American Hospital
Association, and American Association of Retired Persons.

"Every group that signed the letter to the Senate believes the bill can be
strengthened," says Janlori Goldman, deputy director of the Center for
Democracy and Technology, a consumer advocacy group that studies privacy and
technology issues and was a driving force behind the legislation.  "We have
time to make sure the bill is as strong as it can be.  But if it passed today,
it would be a tremendous improvement over current practice."

But others say that legislation usually is weakened, not strengthened, as it
moves through Congress.  "We tend to believe it's not going to get tighter as
it goes through the process," says Lauren Dame, staff attorney for Public
Citizen's health research group.

Critics argue that some major health information services companies played a
part in drafting the bill to make sure it protected their interests.

They argue that such companies as Equifax, an Atlanta-based credit reporting
agency that's now involved in health care electronic data interchange, want to
develop huge databases and sell medical information to employers and insurers.

But Equifax says that charge isuntrue.  "We had zero role in putting the
legislation together," says John Ford, vice president for privacy and external
affairs at Equifax.  The company, which was among the first in the health
information services industry to develop and disseminate a set of
confidentiality principles, supports the concept of the bill but hasn't
finished a full assessment, Ford says.

Perceived weakness

One of the biggest weaknesses in the current bill, critics contend, is that it
provides too many exemptions to the stated prohibitions against transmitting
identifiable information, especially to law enforcement agencies and
researchers.

"The bill doesn't do what it purports to do," says Harold Eist, M.D.,
president-elect of the American Psychiatric Association.  "It gives away more
than it protects."

Eist and others worry that as more medical records are computerized, genetic
information will fall into the hands of employers and insurers-information
that, for instance, could show that a person has a higher-than-average risk
for breast cancer.

Goldman dismisses that argument.  "The Bennett-Leahy bill not only doesn't
sanction the development of computerized medical databases, it regulates and
limits them," she says.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

The Big Get Bigger in Latest Clearinghouse Consolidations


The electronic claims clearinghouse industry closed 1995 with a bang with the
announcement of two major takeovers.  Both of the deals involve companies with
a strong presence in pharmacy electronic data interchange acquiring EDI
expertise in other areas.

Envoy Corp., Nashville, Tenn., announced Nov.  30 a definitive agreement to
acquire National Electronic Information Corp., Secaucus, N.J., for $89 million
in cash.

Earlier in November, National Data Corp., Atlanta, agreed to acquire
Conceptual Systems Corp., Cleveland, under terms that weren't disclosed.

Although clearinghouses have been consolidating in recent years, the latest
deals may signal the start of consolidation among some of the largest players
in the health care EDI market.  The industry is consolidating because of the
economies of scale that can be achieved by transmitting huge volumes of data.

"I don't see it as an aberration but as part of a continuing cycle," says Lee
Barrett, president of Barrett Consulting Group, Middletown, Conn.

NEIC's future

Envoy expects to complete its acquisition of NEIC early this year after its
shareholders vote on the plan.  Plans call for NEIC to become a division of
Envoy, with Richard Caliri remaining as NEIC's CEO.

NEIC's owners include several of the nation's largest commercial insurance
companies.  One of the largest clearinghouses for physician, hospital and
dental claims, NEIC processes more than 7 million claims each month.

In buying NEIC, Envoy gets a national clearinghouse that serves as a central
point for most claims destined for major commercial insurance companies.
NEIC's recent acquisition of Synaptek, a physician claims clearinghouse, and
an alliance with Claims Processing Service, a dental claims clearinghouse,
gives it the capability to process claims destined for most payers.

Envoy processes more than 34 million claims per month, mostly for
prescriptions.

Earlier attempts by the company to diversify its health care transactions
business include purchasing a stake in EMC*Express, a hospital claims
clearinghouse, in 1993 and National Computer Claims Services, a dental claims
clearinghouse, in 1994.  Envoy's next step likely will be to increase its
hospital claims clearinghouse capability, starting with exercising its option
to purchase all of EMC*Express, says James Kever, co-CEO of Envoy.

Excluding pharmacies, Envoy has links to 11,000 providers, compared with the
more than 150,000 providers linked to NEIC, industry observers say.

For more than two years, NEIC has been attempting to build on-line, real-time
transaction capability by creating its Health Care Information Network,
designed to meet the needs of managed care.  NEIC's efforts in this area could
benefit from Envoy's experience in processing on-line, real-time pharmacy
transactions.

The commercial insurance companies that own NEIC determined that long-term
success in the EDI field requires significant volume-and that requires
consolidation, Caliri says.  The owners also determined that owning an EDI
company was peripheral to their core business, he adds.

Envoy reportedly received $180 million when it sold its financial transactions
processing business in May to First Data Corp.  But the downsized Envoy lost
more than $2 million during the first nine months of this year on $18.9
million in revenues.

In comparison, NEIC officials have told executives at other claims
clearinghouses that the company expects to earn $5 million to $6 million this
year on revenues of approximately $40 million.  Once heavily subsidized by its
owners, NEIC has made a profit for at least the last four years, Caliri says.

To finance the deal, Envoy has secured debt and equity financing from General
Atlantic Partners, First Union Capital Partners, First Union National Bank of
North Carolina and NationsBank.

National Data deal

Like Envoy, National Data Corp.  is bolstering its effort to diversify its
health care electronic data interchange services with its latest acquisition.

The pending purchase of Conceptual Systems Corp.  will give National Data
electronic connections to physicians and hospitals, adding to National Data's
core strength of providing electronic transactions to pharmacies.

Conceptual Systems, which processes more than 800,000 claims per month for
hospitals and physicians, will be a wholly owned division of National Data and
will continue to be headed by Nicholas Rosenstein.

The purchase is the latest in a line of acquisitions made by National Data to
diversify its health care services.  Since July 1994, National Data has bought
Lytec Systems, a physician and dental practice management vendor; Zandall
Systems Group, a pharmacy practice management software company; Learned-Mahn,
a hospital EDI software company; and Claim*Net, a physician claims
clearinghouse.

Acquiring Conceptual Systems adds expertise in processing hospital claims to
National Data's mix of services, says Craig Eilermann, director of medical
sales and services for National Data.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Idaho CHIN Wins Big in New Round of Federal Grants


A community health information network born out of one CIO's frustration with
the challenge of bringing costly technology to rural America has attracted
support in high places.

The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, a unit of the
U.S.  Department of Commerce, awarded the Southern Idaho Medical Information
Network a two-year matching grant of nearly $1.7 million, more money than any
of the 12 health care projects for which it announced grants in November.  The
grants, totaling nearly $4.7 million, are through the Telecommunications and
Information Infrastructure Assistance Program (see chart).

Federal officials like the proposed network because it demonstrated an
excellent understanding of how technology can address public health issues,
says Steve Downs, a program officer at the Commerce Department unit.

"We really expect this to be a national model of how to implement a CHIN,"
Downs says.  "We see them as pioneers, and we expect other communities,
particularly rural communities across the country, to follow them and benefit
from the lessons that are learned from Idaho."

The health problems the network plans to address include:

* Improving childhood immunization levels and inaccurate immunization records
through better recordkeeping, collection and sharing of information from
multiple sources.  * Improving care to low-income, nutritionally high-risk
women and children younger than age 5 by enabling the public health agencies,
pediatricians and physicians to have immediate access to medical histories.

The project originating when David E.  Garets, CIO of Magic Valley Regional
Medical Center, recommended that his hospital spend more than $6 million for a
new, more robust clinical information system.  Although the hospital is the
largest in southern Idaho, management decided it couldn't afford the hefty
price tag.  Undaunted, Garets started over to devise an alternative.

The CIO knew that the other, even smaller, hospitals in the region had
virtually no computerization in place.  So he came up with a plan to help the
rural provider organizations enter the automation age together.

The end result:  An $18 million community health information network
initiative that already has $12.5 million in financial support, including a
$1.7 million federal matching grant, firm financial commitments from two
hospitals and tentative commitments from three others.

In June 1994, Garets led the formation of the network, which also will serve
northern Nevada.  He chairs the network's board.

Unusual approach

Like other CHINs, the Idaho network eventually hopes to handle a broad range
of clinical and financial transactions.  But unlike other CHINs, the Idaho
project will enable many participating small hospitals and remote physicians'
offices to gain access to information systems for the first time through links
to two data centers.

Providing access to information systems to hospitals and physicians that lack
computerization was a key to rallying support for the network, Garets says.
He convinced the providers that they might not survive the advent of managed
care without clinical information systems, and that cooperation was the only
way they could afford to acquire such systems.  He also assured them that an
independent board, and not Magic Valley Medical Center, would own and control
the network and the related systems.

The network is in final contract negotiations with HBO & Co., Atlanta, which
tentatively has agreed to provide its Pathways 2000 clinical networking
software at a significant discount to the hospitals participating in the
network, Garets says.  HBOC, which declines comment until the contract is
signed, views the Idaho project as a testbed for applying its software to the
formation of CHINs, Garets says.  The network also will use HBOC's Star
hospital information system where appropriate.

Data centers

The network will build two data centers that will give hospitals access to
HBOC software over an on-line, real-time private network.  In that way,
hospitals will avoid making a heavy investment in hardware.  Some 27
physicians will gain access to HBOC's computer-based patient record software
and Scientific Data Management's practice management software through links to
the data centers.

The data centers will be located at US West headquarters in Twin Falls and at
Elko (Nev.)  General Hospital.  In addition to the HBOC systems and several
other software systems, the centers will house centralized data repositories.
But the network hopes to eventually build a "virtual repository" based on
distributed databases, Garets says.

US West will provide the telecommunication links for the network in southern
Idaho.  AT&T will provide the connections between southern Idaho and northern
Nevada.  Lockheed Martin Idaho Technologies will coordinate the network design
and management and perhaps provide integration engine technology.

"We're trying to improve medical care delivery in rural America, and in order
to do that, you have to provide solid clinical systems, and none of us here
have that," Garets says.

Beyond providing access to clinical systems, the network initially will focus
on the exchange of clinical information to support outcomes research aimed at
reducing the cost of care in all settings, Garets says.

In the first phase, to be completed by October 1998, the network hopes to
offer access to several information systems at five hospitals, two public
health agencies and the 27 physician sites.

But the network will be open to any provider who wants to participate,
including physicians, pharmacies and public health agencies.  Garets hopes the
network eventually will expand to cover all of Idaho as well as parts of other
bordering states.

Financial support

So far, 27 physicians, two public health agencies and two hospitals have
committed a minimum of $11 million in funding for the five-year networking
project.

Convinced that the cooperative effort offers the most efficient way to make
full use of information technology throughout the region, Magic Valley
Regional Medical Center has committed $8.2 million to the networking project.
Only if every provider is linked to the network can the medical center achieve
its vision for promoting health in a large rural area served by independent
providers, Garets says.

Elko General Hospital has committed $2.6 million, and three other Idaho
hospitals are negotiating their contributions.  Participating physicians have
committed an average of $10,000 each.

The network expects to generate other funds when additional providers,
including another three hospitals in the region, agree to participate, Garets
says.  It also has applied for $3.5 million in shared revenue funds disbursed
annually by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.  -Tyler L.  Chin





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Digest


CliniComp Gets Military Hospital Pact

The Department of Defense has selected CliniComp International, San Diego, to
provide its clinical information system at military medical facilities.  The
initial contract with the company includes laboratory and hospitalwide
installations of the system at two sites.  Pending acceptance of the clinical
charting system at those sites, it's expected that the system will be
installed at 35 additional military hospitals worldwide.  The CliniComp system
already is in use or being installed at three military hospitals.  CliniComp
expected to sign the contract in late December.  The value of the contract
wasn't available.

Kaiser Alters Its IS Strategy

Kaiser Permanente, which has encouraged its 12 regional operations to develop
independent information technology initiatives, is abandoning its
decentralized approach.  The nation's largest managed care company has
directed its regions to develop a common hardware and software architecture
that ultimately will enable Kaiser to build a network linking all its
affiliated providers.  As a first step, Kaiser will combine separate
networking projects underway in Northern and Southern California.  Oakland,
Calif.-based Kaiser has 29 hospitals, 242 medical offices and 9,395 physicians
serving 6.7 million people.

Securing Digitized Images

Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, have developed a
security system to prevent unauthorized access to X-rays and other medical
images transmitted over computer networks.  The security system is designed to
work with the university's picture archiving and communications system, used
to store and transmit digitized medical images.  A modification of the public
domain Pretty Good Privacy software, the security system protects images
transmitted between departments at the university hospital as well as those
transmitted to other sites.

ANSI To Prepare Implementation Guides

The American National Standards Institute's ASC X12N insurance subcommittee
will develop implementation guides for its standardized transaction sets.
Until now, at least six other groups have been involved in writing guides for
implementing standard health care transactions.  ANSI X12N hopes that by
centralizing the preparation of guides, the transaction sets will be
implemented uniformly by providers and payers.

Sun Introduces New Workstations

Sun Microsystems Computer Co., Mountain View, Calif., has introduced Ultra
network computing workstations that use a 64-bit Ultra SPARC RISC processor.
The desktop workstations accommodate three-dimensional graphics, imaging and
video required for advanced medical applications such as teleradiology and
surgical simulations.

Canadian CHINs Continue to Multiply

Health Network Ventures, Westchester, Ill., has signed its second community
health information network contract in Canada.  The company will work with
Bell Sygma, a subsidiary of Bell Canada, to build CHINs in Ontario.  The first
project involves providers in the St.  Catharines region.  Earlier, Health
Network Ventures entered an agreement with AGT Ltd.  to develop networks in
Alberta and the Northwest Territories.

Hewlett-Packard Enters Networking Arena

Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., is entering the enterprisewide
networking market by expanding the inpatient functionality of its clinical
software and licensing outpatient clinical software from MedicaLogic Inc.,
Beaverton, Ore.  Hewlett-Packard has added medical-surgical applications to
its HP CareVue software and will license MedicaLogic's Logician software.  It
will market a package of clinical automation services to integrated delivery
systems.

Companies Announce Third Quarter Results

Shared Medical Systems Corp., Malvern, Pa., saw its revenues increase 22% to
$169.2 million for the quarter, compared with the same period a year earlier.
Net income was nearly $10 million, up 12%.

HBO & Co., Atlanta, posted $138 million in revenue for the quarter, up 51%.
Net income was $9.3 million, up 23%.

Cerner Corp.  Kansas City, Mo., reported $41.7 million in revenues for the
quarter ended Sept.  30, up 2% from the same period a year earlier.  Net
income totaled $5.8 million, down 31%.

Health Risk Management Inc., Minneapolis, posted quarterly revenues of $13.4
million, up 15%.  Net income was $529,000 for the period, compared with a loss
of $125,000 in the same period a year earlier.

Phamis Inc., Seattle, saw its revenues increase 25% to $10.4 million for the
quarter.  Net income increased 36% to $1.1 million.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Earning the Public Trust


To integrated health care delivery systems, computer-based patient records
mean better care and lower costs.  To many consumers, however, an electronic
record signals less privacy, more risk and the arrival of Big Brother.  One
large delivery system decided a formal information security policy would be an
effective way to bridge the gap between these perceptions.

PeaceHealth, Bellevue, Wash., is implementing a security and confidentiality
policy as part of its implementation of an enterprisewide health information
network and computer-based patient records.

The system has a wide area network to link its corporate office, 40 physician
office sites, corporate data center, and five hospitals in Washington, Oregon
and Alaska.  Early this year, starting with St.  Joseph Hospital in
Bellingham, Wash., PeaceHealth will begin developing electronic records using
Lastword software from Phamis Inc., Seattle.  By early summer, records from
patients throughout the system will be stored in a central data repository and
be accessible through the WAN.

"My job is to see our clinical records system meets the needs of physicians,
nurses, patients and the community, and it can't do that unless we pay
attention to security and confidentiality," says John Haughom, M.D., chief
medical officer and the architect of PeaceHealth's security policy.

The public is concerned that computer-based patient records are more
vulnerable to breaches of privacy than paper records.  Also, there is fear
that as large integrated delivery systems implement electronic records,
sensitive, private health information will be readily available to more
people.

In addition, Haughom's research on media coverage of electronic records showed
that some providers implementing computer systems without adequate security
measures were suffering from inadvertent as well as malicious misuse of
patient data.

In-depth study

Worried that PeaceHealth was unprepared for dealing with the challenge of
keeping electronic records private, Haughom began an in-depth study of
security issues in April 1994.  By January 1995, he convinced Peace-Health's
board to budget $100,000 to develop a security policy.  He gave the board a
business plan defining a new corporate security director position and calling
for the creation of a corporate security panel with human resource, physician,
nursing and community representatives.

The group eventually developed a security policy that Haughom circulated among
PeaceHealth's five regional hospitals to gain their support.  The corporate
board approved the security policy in June 1995, beginning what Haughom
expects will be a four- to five-year implementation phase.

PeaceHealth's seven-page "Policy on Confidentiality, Privacy and Security of
Information" covers the access, administration, maintenance, destruction and
storage of information.  For each, it states PeaceHealth "shall develop
consistent policies and procedures...that will protect the rights of patients,
employees, providers and other third parties to privacy and confidentiality
and ensure appropriate and legitimate use of information."

This information, the policy states, includes data available via electronic
and paper records, faxes and even conversations.  Security breaches include
stealing another person's password or security code or giving an unauthorized
user a valid password; a "lack of discretion" with or unauthorized disclosure
of any PeaceHealth information; and unauthorized access, modification or
destruction of information or databases.

Sanctions include firing or suspending employees, revoking medical staff
privileges and losing the right to gain access to PeaceHealth information.

PeaceHealth's password system is designed to give clinicians restricted access
to defined sets of information.  "It's based on a 'need to know' philosophy,"
says Haughom.  "People's access privileges are pretty strict."

While the policy indicates PeaceHealth will take steps to restrict access to
data, it also offers system staff the same privacy protection offered to
patients.  The policy also lists separate "rights and obligations" for
patients and providers.  Key provisions of these include giving patients a
list naming every person who accesses their medical record during their stay
at PeaceHealth.  Meanwhile, providers have the right to "clear and complete
presentation of information."

Setting limits

Balancing a caregiver's needs for clear and complete data with the patient's
right to privacy is a challenge that PeaceHealth asked its providers to
address by listing what patient data they absolutely required.  The response,
Haughom says, was that most clinicians and other staff members wanted wide
access to data.

"In some cases, the job description didn't even come close to justifying what
they thought they needed," he says.  The staff members were not asking for
data out of idle curiosity, Haughom says, but were simply used to having
certain information available whether they used it or not.  With further
examination, the providers often conceded they didn't really need certain
information.

Sorting out what data is truly needed compared to what providers feel more
comfortable having falls largely to Margaret M.  Chuman, PeaceHealth's
information security director.  Chuman, a registered nurse with a master's
degree in health care administration, formerly was a CEO of a PeaceHealth
hospital, so she has the credibility and authority necessary to negotiate with
providers and staff about their information needs, Haughom says.

She also has powerful computer tools for ensuring PeaceHealth staff are
following proper access procedures.  The hospital computer system tracks every
screen accessed and keystroke entered each day, a total of more than half a
million transactions.  Needing to monitor a more manageable number, Chuman and
Haughom identified the most sensitive screens in the records system.  Each
time one of these is accessed, the system will download a record of that
transaction in a security sub-database.

Searches of that database will enable Chuman to trace everyone who viewed or
altered a particular record.  She can run spot audits to research a particular
complaint or audit an entire department's use of records, with or without
notification.

PeaceHealth is avoiding an Orwellian aura by emphasizing that these measures
protect all employees as well as patients.  For example, Chuman says
PeaceHealth physicians have incorporated security measures into their medical
bylaws.  A review committee will examine infractions by physicians and issue
sanctions.  If the physicians fail to appropriately discipline one of their
own, the delivery system will take over the review process.

Another committee that Chuman heads reviews all PeaceHealth security
infractions.  In the first few months the security policy has been in force,
sever-al employees already have been terminated for privacy violations, Chuman
says.

While computer and networking technology are triggering the public's security
and confidentiality concerns, PeaceHealth's security policy emphasizes that
people and their attitudes, not technology, are the keys to keeping patient
data private.

"Security is not a computer issue," says Marsha George, vice president for
information services and CIO at PeaceHealth.  "A security policy must start
with what we talk about, what we write down, what we fax.  Much more
confidentiality is violated in the elevator or in the cafeteria than it is by
computer."

Continuing education

To encourage thinking along these lines, PeaceHealth plans continuing
education for everyone with information access privileges.  After finishing an
initial education course, staff members were asked to sign a statement
indicating they accepted responsibility for protecting and properly using
data.  Those who fail to sign a statement are prohibited from entering or
retrieving records data.

PeaceHealth also is educating the community about its electronic records
effort and its confidentiality program through an information kit sent to
Seattle-area media, and Chuman will be available to meet with consumer groups
in the area.

Spell it out

While praising PeaceHealth for having a security policy, Adele A.  Waller, the
partner heading the health information and technology practice in the Chicago
law firm of Gardner, Carton & Douglas, suggests institutions developing
similar programs spell out exactly what information is covered and precisely
how it will be handled.  She's also leary of assigning general "rights," such
as patients' right to review their medical records, without qualifying and
limiting them.

"You might want to state that these are principles that will govern what we do
with information, rather than framing them as rights," Waller says.  "The
notion of a right usually means the right to sue."

Chuman says she's working with several task forces to outline procedures for
handling specific information.

Additional security challenges for PeaceHealth network will come as physicians
access patient data from their home computers later this year.  To ensure it
accepts only bona fide data queries, the host system may use an automatic
callback feature to verify the request came from an authorized terminal,
Haughom says.  And until Internet security measures improve, the PeaceHealth
won't offer access to it.

Although its security policy is less than a year old, Haughom says he's seen
results already, with people changing behavior and challenging their
colleagues to do the same.  "Ninety-five percent of the people in health care
want to be good at their job," he says, "and they just need to be reminded
that the Hippocratic oath says part of being good at their job is protecting
the patient's confidentiality."

Sharon Watson is a Chicago-based writer specializing in health care issues.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

"What Role Will Speech Recognition Play in Health Care?"


Talk of building computer-based patient records always comes down to a
fundamental problem-how to get information into a computer.  Data entry is the
foundation of electronic records.  Without it, health care organizations
cannot hope to build the records systems they say are needed to achieve
efficiencies and improve the quality of patient care.

Therefore, it's critical that ways be found to encourage clinicians, who may
be hesitant to give up the familiar pen and paper chart, to record data in a
computer system.

Believing, whether rightly or wrongly, that clinicians cannot or will not
type, computer hardware and software companies have developed a number of
technologies intended to win clinician acceptance and generate electronic
records of patient care.

One by one, such technologies as handwriting recognition, speech recognition,
touch screens and voice capture have come on the market, only to receive a
lukewarm response from clinicians, who have discovered that those technologies
either have limited applicability or fail to live up to their promise.  As a
result, none has won universal acceptance among clinicians.

Yet, for many health care organizations, speech recognition still sounds like
the answer to the problem of entering data in computer-based patient records.

This emerging technology, which has captured the imagination of many in the
health care industry, automatically converts human speech to digital data that
can be collected, manipulated and exchanged electronically.

Speech recognition systems enable physicians, nurses and other caregivers to
enter information in patients' charts simply by talking to a computer,
eliminating the need for dictation devices, keyboards, light pens, mouses and
other means of data entry.

Early in development

But the technology is in its infancy.  Some users and skeptics say the
software struggles with the recognition of accents, dialects and speech
patterns.  Thus, many health care organizations say, the technology won't be a
viable option for many applications for at least several more years.

But proponents say the technology is viable today, and the next generation of
the software will be even more beneficial for health care providers.

Speech recognition produces readable, professional-looking reports, but the
technology is difficult to use, says Barbara Reynolds, M.D., quality
improvement director in the emergency department at Mercy Hospital and Medical
Center in Chicago.

The speech recognition system installed in Mercy Hospital's emergency
department stumbles over many words, requiring clinicians either to repeat
words until they are understood or enter them using a keyboard, she says.  As
a result, reports that could be written by hand in one or two minutes
sometimes take 30 minutes to complete using the speech recognition system.

Impatient and frustrated, three-fourths of the physicians in Mercy Hospital's
emergency department have stopped using the system.  "I am one of the best
users here," Reynolds says, "but there are times when I am ready to throw it
across the room."

Recent progress

Mercy Hospital's experience with speech recognition does not represent the
current state of the technology, argues William Meisel, a consultant in
Encino, Calif., who's studied the technology's development for 20 years.

Much has changed in the two years since Mercy Hospital installed the VoiceEM
system made by Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc., Waltham, Mass., Meisel
says.  Today's speech recognition systems, including the latest version of
VoiceEM, understand far more words and often provide short-cuts, such as
macros that are able to construct an entire sentence of digital text from one
or two spoken words.

Thus, Meisel argues that today's technology is a viable option for many health
care organizations.  And some provider organizations already are firm
believers.

"I wouldn't even consider writing a chart by hand again," says Raul Rodriguez,
M.D., senior attending physician at Potomac Hospital in Woodbridge, Va., who
uses Kurzweil's VoiceMED system.

The newest speech recognition systems are much easier to use than earlier
versions, says Hossein Firooznia, M.D., who evaluated speech recognition
systems for use in the radiology department of New York University Medical
Center in New York.

The medical center selected the DragonDictate system made by Dragon Systems
Inc., Newton, Mass.  "With only a minimal familiarity with computers, I can
modify text or create macros," Firooznia says.  "There is no big problem with
my accent or if I pronounce a word differently than someone else.  It rapidly
adjusts to my particular way of speaking English words, and the system
continually improves its word recognition efficiency the more it is used."

Several companies are working on a new generation of software.  Philips
Dictation Systems, for example, soon will introduce the first
large-vocabulary, continuous speech recognition software, and at least two
other companies, Berdy Medical Systems and ACS InfoSystems, say they soon will
have next-generation products.

Still, it may prove difficult to convince health care organizations, wary of
information technology solutions that are seemingly too good to be true, that
speech recognition is getting to the point of being viable for many
applications.

Mercy Hospital, which had high hopes for the technology, will be among the
tough sells.  After spending more than $200,000 on a speech recognition system
that's little used, the institution can't afford to gamble again on the
technology, Reynolds says.

Speech recognition generated great excitement when it hit the market in the
late 1980s.  It appeared to be the ultimate approach to data entry, giving
clinicians the ability to record their findings electronically without lifting
a finger.

But some clinicians soon discovered that the technology had some shortcomings,
including a small vocabulary and a big cost.  The technology's ability to
understand fewer than 200 words limited its usefulness, and a cost of more
than $15,000 per workstation made it unaffordable for most health care
organizations.

Within a few years, however, Kurzweil and then Dragon introduced speech
recognition products with 1,000-word vocabularies.  Those products began to
find homes in hospitals' radiology and emergency departments, even though the
technology could do little more than fill in one-word blanks on an electronic
chart.

Today, speech recognition software has a vocabulary of as many as 60,000
words, giving it much greater capability.  In addition, the cost of the
technology has tumbled to several hundred dollars per workstation.  "Overall,
it's much cheaper than a transcriptionist," Meisel says.

Yet, the technology has had difficulty making inroads in health care.  Even in
radiology and emergency departments, where speech recognition is used most,
fewer than 10% of physicians use the technology, Meisel says.

Standing in the way of widespread use of speech recognition in health care are
five hurdles that have confronted the technology from the beginning:

1.  An inability to recognize normal speech patterns.  2.  An inability to
adapt to the voice of more than one person.  3.  An inadequate vocabulary.  4.
An inability to distinguish among words that sound alike.  5.  A shortage of
computing power.

The biggest shortcoming of speech recognition is its inability to comprehend
normal speech patterns, called continuous speech.  The technology requires its
users to speak in a staccato-like manner, called discrete speech, pausing at
least one-tenth of a second between each clearly spoken word.

That frustrates busy clinicians who expect speech recognition to reduce-not
increase-the amount of time it takes them to complete charts.  For clinicians
already wary of any changes in how they are accustomed to doing their work,
this provides a reason to avoid the technology, which is what happened at
Mercy Hospital.

Some vendors have responded by seeking a middle ground between discrete and
continuous speech recognition.  They have tweaked their existing systems,
enabling speech recognition software to construct an entire sentence or even a
paragraph from just a few spoken words.  That speeds the data entry process,
making it less frustrating for clinicians.  However, pauses are only
minimized, not eliminated.

Wait-and-see

Health care organizations, recognizing a major shortcoming in speech
recognition, are waiting for the development of continuous speech recognition
systems, which will enable clinicians to dictate normally instead of haltingly
as they must do now, says Joe Weber, vice president of marketing and sales for
Sudbury Systems Inc., a Sudbury, Mass.-based manufacturer of transcription
products for health care applications.

Sudbury, which is interested in incorporating speech recognition in its
transcription products, is not yet satisfied with the state of the technology
because of its inability to recognize continuous speech.

Although speech recognition has come a long way and continues to evolve, Weber
and some others who have closely monitored its development believe it still
will be several years before a practical continuous speech recognition system
is available.

Continuous speech recognition is "Star Wars" technology, says Dana Gaines,
product manager for InterVoice Inc., a Dallas-based company that designs,
manufactures and sells automated call processing and interactive information
solutions.  "It's the ultimate but not really feasible today because of the
problem of limited vocabulary or the number of words understood by the
computer."

Even if vocabulary size were not a problem, he says, the technology still
would be handicapped by its inability to recognize the voice of more than one
person.

Most of the speech recognition systems available today are speaker-dependent,
meaning they are able to recognize only one speaker's voice.  However, if the
speaker's voice becomes altered in any way, for example because of a sore
throat, the system won't recognize the voice and won't record information.
The speaker then must stop and take the time to reacclimate his or her voice
to the computer.  A system that stops functioning every time the speaker's
voice alters in any way becomes more frustrating than efficient, Gaines says.

Speaker-independent systems, which are designed to respond to any voice, would
be more user-friendly.  However, few systems available today are advanced
enough to provide that capability, he says.

Meanwhile, concern lingers over the number of words understood by speech
recognition systems.

While health care organizations say the current vocabulary size may be
adequate for radiology or emergency departments, it cannot satisfy the needs
of clinicians in all settings because each department has its own jargon.

But Meisel dismisses concern about vocabulary size.  "Most systems can now
recognize as many as 60,000 words, which is more than adequate," he argues.

The technology is still bedeviled as well by homonyms, words that sound alike
but have different meanings and spellings.  To counter this, vendors are
developing editing functions that rely on rules for grammar and sentence
structure to determine which word is syntactically correct.

Dependent on speed

Like the dictation technology from which it evolved, the performance of speech
recognition systems depends on the speed with which a computer can process
commands.  Speech recognition, while simple in concept, is complex in its
makeup and requires a computer to handle millions of instructions per second
for it to function properly.

While computers have become more powerful with each generation of
microprocessors, early machines lacked the enormous amounts of processing
power that speech recognition requires.  As a result, speech recognition
systems operated sluggishly.

"Not long ago, to make the computations needed, you had to have huge,
multimillion-dollar computers working overnight," says Mark Liberman, director
of the Linguistic Data Consortium, a 90-member speech recognition research
cooperative based at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.  Now, he
says, ordinary computers can make the calculations to process sound and pull
up close matches from memory in real time.

While great advances are being made in speech recognition, health care
organizations needn't wait for the commercial release of new products, Meisel
says.

While speech recognition does have some limitations, they are not severe
enough to warrant dismissal of the idea of using the technology in a number of
applications, he says.  "There are some minor problems integrating with word
processors, for example.  Otherwise, the technology works and with a great
deal of accuracy, too."

Speech recognition has an accuracy rate of about 90%, better than a rate of
about 75% for human transcriptionists, Meisel says.  When errors do occur,
they can be corrected via keyboard or a spell-checking function.

Much of the skepticism about the technology in health care stems from
disappointment resulting from providers' unrealistic expectations at the time
the technology was introduced, he says.

"The big hurdle is the first week or two of use," Meisel says.  "When you
first start, it seems that you always have to enter new words.  In addition,
most systems now let you put in macros, which, in some cases, can create
entire reports from just a few spoken words or phrases.  Speech recognition
presents hurdles at the beginning only because those things aren't there."

Speech recognition performs well for clinicians who are patient and willing to
learn how to use it, Meisel says.  "People say that, once they get used to it,
it's no big deal adjusting their speech patterns for the computer.  They say
the benefits, such as readable and complete reports that improve the quality
of health care, far outweigh any inconvenience."

Daniel Fought, D.O., an emergency department physician at Parkview Hospital in
Toledo, Ohio, endured a month of frustration to learn how to use a Kurzweil
speech recognition system.  Dozens of formats made it difficult, but Fought's
glad he persisted.

Charts that once took two or three minutes to complete by hand can now be
finished in about 30 seconds, and the end product is more complete, he says.

More complete charts mean health care organizations have better documentation
of patient care they delivered and, thus, are better equipped to defend
against lawsuits alleging malpractice.

Howard White, M.D., an emergency department physician at St.  Elizabeth
Hospital Medical Center in Youngs-town, Ohio, has mixed feelings about speech
recognition.  "I consider it a necessary evil," he says.

The Kurzweil system installed at St.  Elizabeth Hospital is difficult to
master and slower than writing by hand, but it produces better documentation
of patient care than does the paper-based recordkeeping system it replaced,
White says.

Like Fought, he believes better documentation of care discourages malpractice
claims.  White says no claims have been filed by any of the more than 200,000
patients treated in the emergency department since St.  Elizabeth installed
the Kurzweil system.

Despite the long learning curve, speech recognition is coming into its own,
Meisel says.

Although no studies have been conducted, he believes the overall market for
speech recognition will be measured in thousands of units in 1994, tens of
thousands of units in 1995 and hundreds of thousands of units in 1996.  "Every
year, thousands more people are using it," Meisel says.

"As the days go by, there has been more and more talk about it," says Andrew
Lederer, director of consulting and marketing for The Kennedy Group, a Redwood
City, Calif.-based consulting firm specializing in health care information
technology.  "Speech recognition is one of the technologies that could take
the use of computers to another level."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

The market leader sticks with today's technology


Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc., the first company to offer speech
recognition systems to the health care industry, continues to enhance the base
system it introduced in 1986.

Although some of its newest competitors are developing next-generation
products, Kurzweil intends, at least for now, to stick with what it knows
well.

While other companies pursue development of continuous speech recognition
systems capable of recognizing normal speech patterns, Kurzweil is staking its
near-term future on continued development of its VoiceMED product line.

Installed in 1,100 health care settings, VoiceMED is the most widely used
speech recognition software in the country.  The discrete speech recognition
system, which costs about $8,000 per user, is available in seven versions:
emergency medicine, emergency medicine triage, invasive cardiology,
orthopedics, pathology, primary care and radiology.

Kurzweil intends to develop additional versions of VoiceMED for other
specialties and continue to work on a new user interface scheduled for release
later this year, says Jonathan Bower, director of product management.

The Waltham, Mass.-based company has no plans to venture into continuous
speech recognition, Bower says.

"We'll stick with discrete speech," he says.  "It's proven and has a very high
accuracy rate.  We'll introduce continuous speech only when the technology is
mature, which we don't see happening for at least a couple of years.  In the
meantime, we'll keep improving."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

The next generation of software


"Providing the ability to speak naturally to computers will remove the last
obstacle."

Three newcomers to the field of speech recognition software for health care
are working on a new generation of the technology.

Philips Dictation Systems is preparing to introduce continuous speech
recognition software.  In addition, at least two other companies-Berdy Medical
Systems and ACS InfoSystems-say they are working on similar new technology.

Philips, a San Francisco-based subsidiary of Philips Electronics, is beta
testing SpeechMagic, which has a 60,000-word vocabulary.  The company expects
to introduce the software commercially within six months.

Until now, speech recognition has been based on template matching, which works
like this:  Words to be recognized by a computer are dictated and stored as an
"acoustical" image in the computer's data base.  When a particular word is
spoken, the computer searches the data base for a match.

Template matching works well as long as the number of words to be recognized
is limited and a person speaks in a consistent manner and pauses between
words.  Philips contends it has overcome those limitations by basing its
product on the recognition of phonemes, the smallest acoustical component of a
language.  Phonemes go beyond the letters of the alphabet; the letter "a," for
example, takes on different forms, as in the words "car" and "make."

Phoneme recognition is the key to success in speech recognition, says Hans Van
Der Linde, marketing manager for Philips.  To be effective, he says, a speech
recognition system must have a large vocabulary tailored to the needs of a
specific group of users; it must be able to understand the context in which
those words are used; and it must have a database in which a specific
speaker's phoneme pronunciations are stored.

SpeechMagic enables physicians and other caregivers to enter information in
computer-based patient records at a rate of 200 to 250 words per minute, says
John Payton, president of CMHC Systems Inc., a Dublin, Ohio-based company that
is developing a psychiatric vocabulary for SpeechMagic.

Grant fuels research

Like Phillips, Berdy Medical Systems believes that continuous speech
recognition is the technology of the future.  It plans to incorporate the
technology in its SmartClinic computer-based patient records software for
physician group practices.

In early October, the Rochelle Park, N.J.-based company received a $1.98
million grant from the Department of Commerce's Advanced Technology Program to
integrate its computer-based patient records software with speech recognition
software developed by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

With speech recognition as a front end, Berdy's computer-based patient records
software will enable clinicians to enter data simply by speaking in a natural,
conversational manner.

The system, now in prototype, will have not only a large medical vocabulary
but also the ability to understand words in context, says Rick Holtmeier,
Berdy's president and COO.  And unlike current speech recognition technology,
it does not require voice training, slow speech or pauses between words, he
says.

"Providing caregivers the ability to speak naturally to their computers will
remove the last obstacle in acceptance of the computer-based patient record,"
Holtmeier says.  "Although physicians recognize the need for and the
time-saving benefits of automation, many are unwilling to take the time to
enter patient information."

The new Berdy system will not be fully developed and commercially available
for three years.  However, Holtmeier says speech recognition for some
applications, such as physical examinations, may be available within 18
months.

ACS InfoSystems, best known for its development and installation of networking
software incorporating artificial intelligence at St.  Alphonsus Regional
Medical Center in Boise, Idaho, now is applying artificial intelligence to
speech recognition.

The result is speech recognition software that understands differences in the
way people speak, says Mark Hays, president of ACS InfoSystems, a small
software development company in Boise.

Speaker-independent

"It's speaker-independent, which means that anyone can use it without any
speech training whatsoever," he says.  "It also eliminates problems with
normal changes in voice quality that occur, for instance, when a user has a
sore throat."

The software, HInet Voice Control, also gives speech capability to a computer,
enabling it to respond orally to a clinician's request for more information
about a patient.

"It interacts with the user more like a person than a computer," Hays says.
"This allows a physician in the emergency room to focus on the patient-not the
computer screen-and simply talk with the computer while assessing the
patient."

The HInet Voice Control, which still is under development, will undergo beta
tests at an emergency room physicians' group and four hospitals early this
year.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

A Healthy Year For Electronic Claims Growth


Electronic claims processing is coming of age.  Nearly half of the more than
3.6 billion claims providers submitted during 1995 were transmitted
electronically.  Providers submitted an estimated 47% of all claims
electronically last year, compared to 41.5% in 1994.

The estimates are part of a complete look at health care electronic data
interchange and networking issues in Faulkner & Gray's Health Data Directory,
1996 Edition.

One major factor behind the increase in electronic claims is the continued
steady growth in the number of Medicare and Medicaid claims that providers
transmit electronically.  In addition, insurance companies are becoming more
adept at accepting electronic claims.

Last year, the pace of consolidation among electronic claims processing
companies picked up.  More than a dozen claims clearinghouses either bought
smaller competitors, practice management software companies or EDI gateway
software vendors to enhance their client base and product lines.

Clearinghouses that weren't buying competitors were aligning themselves with
companies that had desired technologies or services.  One company-National
Electronic Information Corp.  of Secaucus, N.J.-pulled off a triple play by
buying a company, aligning with another, then getting acquired by Envoy Corp.,
Nashville, in the year's biggest deal (see related story, page 10).

Number crunching

The 1996 directory's statistics for electronic claims mainly reflect
computer-to-computer electronic data interchange, but some organizations also
include shipping a magnetic tape or disk in calculating their electronic
claims totals.

Better ways of counting pharmacy and Medicaid claims account for large
increases in those annual claims totals compared with previous years'
directory statistics.  Last January, Scott-Levin Associates, a Newtown,
Pa.-based health care research and consulting company, began collecting daily
prescription activity from 34,000 pharmacies, more than half of the nation's
total.  In addition, the Health Care Financing Administration last year began
a comprehensive survey of Medicaid fiscal agents to support more accurate
estimates of annual claims volume.

The higher numbers this year for Medicaid and pharmacy claims, along with the
high rate of electronic submission for these claims, accounts for revised,
higher statistics for electronic submission of claims in previous years,
compared to statistics in previous editions of the directory.

In large part, provider reluctance is no longer the major reason that the
majority of claims submitted each year are still on paper.  "The problem is
not on the provider side, it's on the payer side," says Michael Eckstein,
president of EDI for Health Care, a Bryn Mawr, Pa.-based consulting company.

Most providers are at least technologically ready to use electronic data
interchange.  For instance, dental offices used to be considered a backwater
of automation.  Now, 62% of dental offices have computers and 70% of those
offices have modems or communications software that enable communication with
outside entities, according to a recent American Dental Association survey.

The percentage of claims that physicians submitted electronically grew from an
estimated 18% in 1994 to 27% last year.  Electronic dental claims increased
from 9% to 11%.  The increases reflect more computers in provider offices as
well as the increased ability of payers to accept electronic claims.

But electronic claims submission levels are not increasing in every provider
sector.  In two segments, hospitals and pharmacies, the rate of electronic
submission has hit a plateau of 80%.  "The remaining paper claims are destined
for small payers, HMOs and PPOs that aren't connected to clearinghouses," says
Nicholas Rosenstein, CEO of Conceptual Systems Corp., a Cleveland-based
processor of hospital and physician claims recently acquired by National Data
Corp., Atlanta.

While electronic claims submission has become routine for many providers,
there's still much work to be done.  For example, many smaller commercial
payers and managed care plans still cannot accept electronic claims.

And even some of the nation's largest payers are still making only slow
progress at getting electronic claims in the door.

Of 13 surveyed payers accepting more than 500,000 claims per month, only seven
received more than 20% of their claims electronically.  The seven are Aetna
Life Insurance Co., Cigna Healthcare, The MetraHealth Cos., Mutual of Omaha
Insurance Co., Provident Life Insurance Co., The Prudential Insurance Co.  of
America and United Healthcare Corp.  That compares with only one major
carrier-United Healthcare-that received more than 20% of its claims
electronically in 1994.

"Larger insurance companies are hampered by legacy systems patched together
with concrete and created by people no longer with the company," Eckstein
says.  "And the overwhelming number of managed care plans have yet to
implement any electronic encounter or referral systems."

Some payers say that they increased electronic claims submissions this year by
working more closely with providers and by establishing links with more
clearinghouses.

For instance, Aetna identified providers who had been submitting claims
electronically to the insurance company, only to revert to submitting paper
claims.  The carrier created teams to meet with providers through seminars or
office visits.  "We find out if they've had problems with electronic
submission and correct them," says Patricia Gray, Aetna's EDI administrator.

Furthermore, Aetna finally started doing what many other major carriers have
been doing for a couple of years-link to clearinghouses and other networks in
addition to NEIC.  Aetna established connections with EDI USA, U.S.  HDI and
the Texas Health Information Network, operated by Blue Cross and Blue Shield
of Texas.

Clearinghouse volume

In 1995, the nation's 25 largest claims clearinghouses handled an estimated
335.3 million claims per month, an increase of 23.4% over 1994 monthly volume.

Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas, remains the nation's largest processor
with monthly volumes in excess of 70 million claims, up 17% from the previous
year.  EDS transmits 80% of these claims to payers electronically.  But just
as in 1994, runner-up National Data Corp.  grew faster than EDS last year,
increasing its total claims volume by 66% to 59 million claims per month, all
of them electronic.

"Most of our growth has come from within our existing customer base," says
Bruce Roberson, vice president of health care information network services for
National Data.  "But we've also gotten aggressive in taking business away from
our competitors."

Other clearinghouses reporting large claims volume increases include Unisys
Corp., whose claims volume grew 89%; Equifax Healthcare EDI Services, with 65%
growth; National Electronic Information Corp., 56% growth; and PCS Health
Systems, 53%.

Stung by lost Medicaid fiscal agent contracts-especially in Virginia-First
Health Services saw its monthly claims volume drop 66% in 1995.  Likewise, a
lost Medicaid contract in Florida resulted in a 61% volume reduction for
Consultec Inc.

The clearinghouse consolidation of 1995 was the result, in part, of earlier
work by companies to reposition themselves in the health care EDI industry.
"It was the year that people began implementing strategies developed in 1994,"
says Richard Caliri, CEO of NEIC.

No longer do companies just look inward to develop new automation services for
the health care industry.  The new mantra is:  If you don't have it, buy it.
"It's a lot easier to buy relationships rather than build them," says Joseph
Bigley, president of Real:Time Investment, a consulting company in Alpharetta,
Ga.

Bigley should know.  His clearinghouse, Cooperative Healthcare Networks, was
bought by Equifax Inc.  in 1994 as the information services company's first
entrance into the health care EDI field.

Another reason for consolidation was the continuing decrease in the prices
that clearinghouses charge to transmit electronic claims.

A recent Faulkner & Gray survey of clearinghouses shows that the average price
per claim plummeted from 43 cents in 1994 to 34 cents in 1995.  "As the price
drops, the industry has to consolidate to get volumes through the switches,"
Bigley says.

Prices decline

Some clearinghouses are dropping prices to remain competitive in tight
markets.  "To stay in business, I had to lower my prices," says Beatrice
Dvorak, CEO of Medical Data Insurance Processing, Sioux Falls, S.D.

But other processors are cutting prices in an effort to raise transaction
volume quickly, thus making a clearinghouse a viable candidate for
acquisition.  "Volume is everything in the marketplace," says Frank
Giannantonio, president of Frank Giannantonio & Associates, a Piscataway,
N.J.-based clearinghouse.  "Some clearinghouses are saying, 'Let me get my
numbers up so someone will buy me.'"

The buying frenzy started early in the year, with National Data Corp.  buying
Learned-Mahn, a Boise, Idaho-based supplier of transactions processing
software.  Then in May, National Data bought Claim*Net, the claims
clearinghouse of Indianapolis-based Physicians Practice Management.

With that buy, National Data began implementing its strategy of integrating
the software and clearinghouse services of its new companies with its existing
pharmacy and dental claims processing services to provide one-stop shopping of
information services for integrated delivery systems and community health
information networks.

That strategy was further cemented in November when National Data announced it
would buy Conceptual Systems Corp.  With the acquisition, National Data will
gain hospital claims clearinghouse capability (see story, page 10).

"What we are looking for is established connectivity in markets beyond our
core pharmacy business," says Richard Cohan, senior vice president of health
care at National Data.

Driven by the increased information needs of integrated delivery systems as
they go after managed care contracts, National Data was by no means alone in
buying its way to increased functionality.

MedE America, formed by the acquisition of three clearinghouses in 1994, added
two more in 1995-General Computer Corp.  and Latpon Health Systems.  Now armed
with electronic data interchange software for claims processing and systems
integration for hospitals, pharmacies and physicians, MedE America is
aggressively marketing its expanded services to existing clients.

Seeking to become a leading provider of disease management services,
pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly and Co.  followed up on its 1994 acquisition of
pharmacy processing powerhouse PCS Health Systems with the purchase of
Integrated Medical Systems, a Golden, Colo.-based supplier of networking
services for the exchange of clinical and financial information.

Unisys Corp., a leading Medicaid fiscal agent, launched a diversification
strategy when it purchased Claims Express, EDI software from Comprehensive
Technologies.  The acquisition gave Unisys a valuable commodity it didn't
have:  software to send claims to private insurance companies.

A snail's pace

As the year drew to a close, the health care industry began to investigate why
providers and payers have made so little progress in implementing standard
formats for electronic transactions.

Although the American National Standards Institute's ASC X12N subcommittee
introduced its first standard transaction sets four years ago, the formats are
not widely used.

For example, only 2% of the Medicare claims that providers submit
electronically are in the X12 837 format.  And Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Florida reports that 5.5% of 3.6 million electronic claims submitted
electronically in October were in the X12 837 format.

Some say that although there is nothing technically wrong with the X12 837
transaction set, it evolved from previously developed retail EDI transaction
sets and didn't take into account the complexity of health care transactions.

"From a logical sequencing perspective, the 837 works well," says Catherine
Peper, director of health care information management for Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Florida.  "However, mechanically when you try to use it, it becomes
a nightmare."

But ANSI X12N members are skeptical that there's a significant problem with
the 837 format.

"People are saying it's too complex, but nobody's coming to us with specific
information that would lead us to believe the 837 is deficient in any way,"
says Bruce Horn, manager of electronic commerce for The Associated Group, an
Indianapolis-based payer, and co-chair of the X12N health care task group.
"To the extent that we can, we are going to address those issues.  If
something needs fixing, then we will fix it."  n

Joseph Goedert is editor of Health Data Network News, a Faulkner & Gray
newsletter.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Facing the Outpatient Coding Challenge


As more health care is delivered in outpatient rather than inpatient settings,
outpatient costs are skyrocketing.  This has prompted several payers,
including the federal government, to test a new method of paying providers for
the use of outpatient facilities.

As this complex new payment mechanism, known as ambulatory patient groups, or
APGs, is implemented, providers and payers are turning to coding software
developers for help in billing and paying for outpatient services.

The Health Care Financing Administration commissioned the development of APGs
as the potential basis of a federal prospective payment system for outpatient
care, similar in design to diagnosis-related groups, or DRGs, a treatment
classification system that's the basis of Medicare's inpatient payment system.

Under APGs, Medicare would reimburse hospitals and other outpatient facility
owners a fixed rate determined in advance for facility expenses, such as
outpatient surgery center use.  These payments would be based on resource use
as determined by the APGs' grouping mechanism.  Today, most payers reimburse
providers for outpatient facility costs based on charges or a percentage of
charges.

Because APGs group together outpatient services and procedures for
reimbursement of facility expenses, they generally result in lower payments
than if payers reimbursed providers based on facility charges for every
individual service or procedure.  As a result, APGs, like DRGs before them,
will force providers to carefully examine care delivery to ensure they are
delivering only those services that are clinically necessary.

HCFA is testing APGs in the Iowa Medicaid program, hoping to eventually
implement the payment system to cover all Medicare outpatient services.  HCFA
will allow individual states to decide if they want to use APGs for Medicaid
outpatient services.

Moving forward

The government has yet to finish testing the outpatient system or assign
national reimbursement levels for the 290 APGs.  But a handful of private
insurance companies have decided not to wait for HCFA to act and are moving
forward to implement APGs for outpatient facility payments to control costs.

Using consultants and their own reimbursement experience to devise
reimbursement rates for the outpatient groups, these payers are automating the
APGs grouping process in an effort to curb rising outpatient care costs and
encourage greater efficiency in outpatient care delivery.

"Providers are shifting services from inpatient settings to outpatient
settings, and outpatient costs are going nuts," says Ben Zelman, director of
utilization management at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio, which is
implementing APGs.  "To remain competitive, we need to know expected resource
utilization and have a clinical understanding of outpatient care, which
represents about half of health care costs."

Last July, the Ohio plan began using APGs to reimburse outpatient facilities
in a few regions of the state.  The plan wants to expand use of APGs to other
areas this year.  The Blues plan used consulting firms to help create weights
and rates, which determine levels of reimbursement for groups of services,
based on its past outpatient reimbursements and negotiations with Ohio
providers.

To facilitate the grouping of medical codes under APGs to determine
reimbursement, the Blues plan has added to its claims adjudication information
system the APG Grouper, Version 1.0, an automated code grouper from 3M Health
Information Systems, Murray, Utah.

"A provider sends us an electronic claim, which is sent through our claims
adjudication system and the grouper," Zelman says.  "The process of APG
grouping is automated and an integrated part of our health information
system."

Management tool

As payers use APGs to set payment rates and providers refine care delivery to
keep costs in check, providers and payers will learn to better predict
outpatient payments and expenditures, says Nancy Hirschl, director of
ambulatory coding and reimbursement enhancement services at Case Mix Analysis
Inc.  The North Grafton, Mass.-based consulting firm assists hospitals with
coding and reimbursement issues.

"APGs shift risk to providers; they are a management tool to monitor physician
practice patterns and hospital costs and expenses," Hirschl says.  "Payers are
finding in APGs an easily manageable tool to reimburse hospitals for
outpatient care.  And because payers know how successful DRGs have been in
containing inpatient costs, they are eager to embrace a similar system to
contain outpatient costs."

APGs are necessary because of the shift in health care from inpatient to
outpatient services, says Josh Pollatsek, vice president of finance at SOLON
Consulting Group Ltd.  The Silver Spring, Md.-based consulting firm
specializes in the design and implementation of prospective payment systems.

"APGs show payers and providers where they may or may not be having problems,
where they are losing money or where they can be making more money," Pollatsek
says.  "When relying on APGs for reimbursement, providers can filter out
unnecessary services, based on APG standards, to increase their efficiency in
outpatient care."

Groupers

To make more efficient use of the complex grouping methodology, payers and
providers are acquiring automated groupers, software that automatically
classifies medical codes under appropriate APGs.

"APGs require a tremendous flow of data into coding staff members' computers.
And with outpatient care, coders are dealing with enormous volume compared to
inpatient cases," says Steve Harris, president of IRP Systems Inc., a
Wilmington, Mass.-based company that specializes in coding and reimbursement
software for hospitals and payers.  "To successfully use APGs, providers and
payers need to have efficient, integrated information systems.  Otherwise,
coders will not be able to go through patient charts and find all necessary
codes for optimal reimbursement."

In 1988, HCFA commissioned 3M Health Information Systems to develop an
outpatient classification system in response to the increase in outpatient
care and the lack of a comprehensive outpatient cost containment system.  The
result was APGs, which use a combination of International Classification of
Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) and Current
Procedural Terminology, Version 4 (CPT-4) codes to group outpatient facility
costs for reimbursement.

APGs are a patient classification system designed to explain the amount and
type of resources used in an outpatient visit, explains Donn G.  Duncan, M.D.,
APG project clinical consultant for HCFA and 3M Health Information Systems,
co-developers of APGs.

"Patient visits that fall under one of the 290 APGs have similar clinical
characteristics and similar resource use and cost," Duncan says.  "Development
of APGs focused on the full range of outpatient settings-including same-day
surgery units, emergency rooms and clinics-and the full range of patients, not
just the Medicare population.  APGs also were designed to include only
facility costs, not professional costs, which are handled separately by CPT-4
codes."

Data elements used to define APGs included information on the UB-92 and the
Medicare claim forms, which include ICD-9-CM diagnosis and CPT-4 procedure
codes, he adds.

One major difference between APGs and DRGs is that APGs depend on both
ICD-9-CM and CPT-4 codes to group outpatient services, while DRGs use only
ICD-9-CM codes for inpatient services.  Further, where coding staff classify
an inpatient admission by only one DRG, they can classify one outpatient visit
by several APGs.

"Coders seek the reason for admission found in a medical record to arrive at a
DRG number," Duncan says.  "To figure out which APGs are relevant, coders look
at visit necessity by three categories-a significant procedure or therapy, a
medical visit, or an ancillary test or procedure."

A testbed

As HCFA's testbed for implementing APGs, the Iowa Medicaid program is the
crystal ball for many who want to view the future of APG automation.  In July
1994, when the test began, many Iowa hospitals were uncertain how to handle
the automation of APGs.

With HCFA's APG effort in full bloom in Iowa-and private efforts sprouting in
California, Maine, Nebraska, Ohio, Utah and other states-many health care
organizations now are looking to a limited selection of specialized coding
software to improve their handling of APGs.

Coding software can help coders better understand the APG system, says Harris
of IRP Systems, which distributed its APG Calculator system at no cost to all
Iowa hospitals before the start of the APG Medicaid test.  Coding staff use
the IRP system to automatically determine APGs for claims.

Staff at Mercy Hospital in Council Bluff, Iowa, use IRP's APG Calculator to
determine APGs for Medicaid claims, a task they are mandated to perform under
the HCFA test.  With a Medicaid patient population of nearly 25% and a need to
hasten the APG learning curve, automation has been an important element of APG
implementation for staff at Mercy Hospital.

"All we have to do is enter the principal ICD-9-CM code or the various CPT-4
codes, along with a patient's gender and age, and the grouper examines the
data and shows the various APGs for which the hospital will be reimbursed,"
says Jim Harwood, Mercy's supervisor of medical records.

Although it took some time to understand the new classification system, Mercy
Hospital staff members have realized both financial and clinical advantages.

"Through the APGs fixed-reimbursement system, the hospital is better able to
focus on outpatient costs as well as develop clinical protocols," Harwood
says.

APGs lump resources used during an outpatient service or procedure into a
group.  Thus, providers can use APGs as one indicator of which services and
procedures should be included in outpatient clinical treatment protocols.

Mercy Hospital is in very early stages of developing clinical protocols, which
recommend diagnostic and treatment approaches for treating patients with
certain medical problems.  But APGs already have helped staff see where such
protocols could improve care and the bottom line.

"Everyone that comes into our emergency room does not need a chest X-ray or
laboratory work," Mercy's Harwood says.  "APGs make our providers think more
in terms of necessity.  APGs make caregivers and administrators more aware of
costs.  APGs make people acutely aware of the fact that health care has
changed."

Private-sector test

Just as HCFA is testing APGs in Iowa's Medicaid program, Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Utah is testing APGs as a strategic way to control payments.

"We wanted to move to a prospective payment system where, through negotiations
with providers, we could control the levels of reimbursement for outpatient
care," says Mark Watson, director of hospital reimbursement at the Utah Blues
plan.  "We found that the APG system was the only comprehensive prospective
payment system with an established grouper for the outpatient health care
environment."

The Utah Blues plan has been working on APG implementation for about two
years.  The payer plans to begin testing APGs in April at two hospitals.

Staff at the Utah Blues plan know that automation will be a key to successful
use of APGs.  The payer is recalibrating its internal claims information
systems so that it can handle the new grouping methodology.

"We have not traditionally collected all the CPT-4 codes and other data
necessary for APGs; we have been using revenue and ICD-9-CM codes for
outpatient care," Watson says.  "We are enhancing the backbone of our claims
processing system to accept the CPT-4 codes to facilitate the grouping of
claims data for APGs."

For the actual grouping, the Blues plan will use the automated grouper from 3M
Health Information Systems.  The plan has hired a consulting firm to help
create the payment weights and rates needed for reimbursement.

More work is needed at the federal level before APGs can become a universally
mandated classification system for Medicare.  While the grouping methodology
is in its second version, HCFA still must devise formalized payment weights
and rates.

"The weights and rates used in the Iowa Medicaid program are based on older
data; we have to develop Medicare-based weights and rates on the new data from
our tests," says Mark Wynn, a member of the special analysis staff for the
associate administrator for policy and team leader for development of
prospective payment systems for outpatient services at HCFA.

"And to finalize

the policymaking, APGs will have to go through further evaluation to gauge
their impact on various types of providers," Wynn adds.  "Many payers are
waiting for Medicare to implement APGs; that is the main reason why APGs are
not yet widely accepted."

However, some observers believe that the private market will lead the way on
APGs, whether HCFA completes work on the system or not.

"Like us, a lot of health care organizations around the country are starting
to work with APGs," says Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Ohio's Zelman.  "Right
now the private market is leading the government because the assumption is
that APGs will provide a competitive edge in managing reimbursement and
quality in a health care delivery system."

Payers and providers will have to deal with spiraling outpatient care costs
one way or another, Zelman says, and automated APGs represent the best
outpatient cost containment resource available.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Putting the Pieces Together


the objectives underlying disease management appear to be essential components
of the new health care delivery business strategy in the next few years.
Managed care is increasing its stranglehold as a reimbursement approach,
forcing providers and payers to develop ways to limit their financial risk in
providing individuals' health care.  That's creating stronger incentives for
preventing illnesses from occurring, intervening early and appropriately, and
handling chronic illnesses in the least expensive and most clinically
effective way.

HMOs have long claimed that those objectives were central to their philosophy.
But until now, most HMOs have been able to succeed financially by merely
managing health care costs, not actual care delivery.  Now, as margins tighten
and pressure from purchasers grows, providers and payers are finding they have
no choice but to seek ways to avoid costly health care interventions and to
improve individuals' health.

Fortunately, providers' and payers' urgency to start disease management
programs is coming at a time when information technology tools are available
to provide the information and the organization needed to develop and
effectively implement such strategies.

Information a key

While there's much debate about exactly what this discipline should be called
and how it should be used in health care, there's little argument that as risk
becomes a centerpiece in efforts to limit health care spending, disease
management will flourish, and information tools will be absolutely essential
in dealing with risk-based reimbursement strategies.

"The whole industry of managed health care is evolving to a level of higher
quality, and that means managing outcomes, which is another term for disease
management," says John C.  Marlow, M.D., vice president of health care
programs for Capp Care, a Newport Beach, Calif.-based managed care company
that operates preferred provider organizations.  "Parallel to the development
of disease management, information technology has evolved, and we're seeing
the beginning of enabling or empowering technologies that help providers make
decisions to navigate through the health care system.  That will have a big
impact on disease management."

Those still-developing tools, including outcomes assessment technology,
computer-based patient records, central data repositories and health
information networks, will enable disease management to have more of an effect
on health care by building a strong foundation of data on which to base
clinical guidelines.  But, like those enabling technologies, disease
management is embryonic in its development, and skeptics now are wondering if
it's a marketing invention that will fade as quickly as it's burst on the
scene.

Key issues in successful disease management programs include picking diseases
that can be managed effectively, doing high-quality research, navigating the
politics of getting physicians and other providers to use computers for data
collection, and standardizing clinical data from disparate sources so it can
be compared and analyzed.

Finding a niche

Disease management is an extension of several trends in directing health care
delivery-utilization manage-ment, case management, outcomes assessment,
patient education and clinical protocols and pathways.  Proponents say disease
management seeks to harmonize those disciplines to arrive at the best of
managed care, using evidence-based ap-proaches that offer the best care at
least cost.

In disease management programs, researchers develop a comprehensive plan for
handling patients who have a chronic specific illness or condition.  Providers
use best practices and patients use preventive measures.  These interventions
can occur in home, ambulatory or acute care settings.  The goal is to deliver
the most effective care in the least expensive setting.

Information technology will facilitate the gathering of evidence for disease
management research.  And computers' ability to analyze data and provide
direction at the point of care will provide critical impetus to disease
management.

Lee Newcomer, M.D., chief medical officer of United HealthCare Corp., an
Edina, Minn.-based managed care company, defines disease management as a set
of interventions, determined prospectively, targeted at a large group of
patients with particular diseases, with the intent of altering the course of
the disease, preventing exacerbations and improving the patients' quality of
life.

While most disease management programs are seeking those objectives, there is
a wide range of approaches for achieving those ends, says Michael Miele,
president of Capitated Disease Management Services, a Montclair, N.J.-based
company that provides disease management services.  "It can be anything, as
little as an education program or as aggressive as planting case managers on
site in somebody's home."

Some say the disease management buzzword doesn't really explain the work that
needs to be done.  That's why they are terming their efforts care management,
health management or outcomes management.

In addition, the status of disease management as a buzzword is making many
view it as a hot business opportunity.  New entrants in the market range from
startup companies seeking contracts to organize and direct care for a specific
group of patients for providers or managed care organizations, to giant
pharmaceutical companies hoping to leverage their research experience and
enormous databases while they find a new and more important niche in health
care delivery.

Many payers and providers, such as hospitals and integrated delivery systems,
are beginning to develop disease management programs on their own.  That's
because they're under more pressure to reduce costs.  Also, buyers of health
care services are becoming more sophisticated, demanding that those bidding to
provide health care coverage have clinical protocols or disease management
initiatives in place.

Capp Care's Marlow sees disease management as another step in the evolution of
managing health care costs.  Starting with efforts to manage costs in the late
1970s, the health care system has moved to managing utilization through such
1980s efforts as precertification requirements and utilization review and most
recently to managing components of the process, such as behavioral health and
drug formularies, to deliver cost-effective care.

Disease management, Marlow says, is the next step in health care management.
It differs from previous efforts because it seeks to manage a patient's
treatment across a continuum of care, not just in a hospital setting.

In addition, disease management differs from case management because it's not
just implemented when a person enters an intensive inpatient setting in an
effort to limit costs and lengths of stay.  Instead, it's intended to be a
wide-ranging plan that keeps people out of the hospital and manages chronic
conditions so that these individuals enjoy the best health possible and thus
consume the most appropriate and effective health care resources.  It's
believed that this will provide the best payoff in long-term cost savings.

Risk as the impetus

The emergence of risk-shifting in providing health care, through such devices
as capitated managed care contracts, has shifted incentives.  If providers or
payers are paid a fixed amount per month per plan enrollee, regardless of
their medical needs, the use of unnecessary services and resources comes out
of their pockets.  Conversely, the better an enrollee's health is, the more
profit can be made, and the more satisfied the enrollee is.

It's no surprise, then, that those at most risk for covering health care costs
are most keenly interested in disease management.

As James B.  Couch, M.D., sees it, the push for evidence-based disease
management is coming right from the top, from large companies that see health
care costs as limiting their ability to compete worldwide.  It's also coming
from government programs, which want to get the most effectiveness for their
health care dollar, says Couch, director in charge of disease management
consulting for Coopers and Lybrand, a New York-based consulting firm.

"Global competition has driven companies to look at what they get for their
health benefit dollar.  They are going beyond managed care to finding the most
cost-effective way to identify and treat diseases within specific populations
with the intent of achieving measurable improvement in health status," he
says.  "Major purchasers are finally assessing health care suppliers like they
do any other supplier.  For many, health care is their most expensive
supplier.  When they manage the value and quality and cost-effectiveness of
health care, the net effect is a happier and more satisfied workforce and a
better bottom line."

An example of large companies' interest in disease management is the Managed
Health Care Association, a group of companies organized to promote and improve
managed care.

One of its initiatives is the Outcomes Management System Consortium, which
seeks to apply patient-centered outcomes assessment methods to monitor and
improve the quality of health care services, says Michael R.  Huber, executive
director of the Health Outcomes Institute, a Bloomington, Minn.-based
not-for-profit organization that's coordinating research efforts for the
consortium.

"The consortium's work reflects the growing demand for marketplace
accountability of health services," Huber says.  The focus is on the results
of care, which can help consumers compare health plans.  The institute's first
study, involving severe asthma patients, sought to study how plans managed the
chronic disease and relate treatment to patients' outcomes.  "We're looking to
develop models for application of this data, either for providing comparisons
across plans or feedback to providers," he says.

Payers that are assuming risk for health care also are beginning to phase in
disease management programs.  For example, one of the largest managed care
organizations, United HealthCare, is developing disease management programs
for asthma, diabetes, lower back pain and chronic heart failure, says Karen
Keown, its senior director of medical management projects.  United HealthCare,
which recently acquired New York-based MetraHealth and covers 27 million
through managed care programs, will begin gradually implementing the programs
in March, she says.

The diseases that United HealthCare is targeting in its new program are common
candidates for disease management.  These diseases get a lot of attention
because they are known to be sources of high utilization, says Jaan Sidorov,
M.D., director of the continuous health improvement program for Geisinger
Health Plan, a Danville, Pa.-based HMO.

Studying diseases also can indicate whether a coordinated plan of management
can help reduce costs and increase patient satisfaction.  That's a crucial
question to ask, United HealthCare's Newcomer says.  He recalls that a task
force for his company spent many weeks studying low birthweight and high-risk
pregnancies as a potential condition for disease management, but wound up
deciding that no amount of preventive interventions would significantly reduce
the risk that women would have these pregnancies.

Disease management also involves scientific research, and experts say an
effective program must compare the results of interventions-both for cost and
outcomes-against a control group so that the effectiveness of those efforts
can be analyzed.

Automation's promise

That's why information technology will play a pivotal role in disease
management.  Computerization capabilities fit hand-in-glove with the need to
capture and bring together clinical and financial information to conduct
complex research.

"Better information is indispensable," says Couch of Coopers and Lybrand.
"You need to identify the ultimate customer of the health care system and
their wants and expectations, then design and implement a health care system
that is intended to meet their needs.  You need to be able to track the actual
clinical results of the health care delivery process, and track and trend
those results with financial results so you can constantly look at the process
and continue to improve."

Doing the necessary research for evidence-based disease management will be
impossible without the use of computers.  It's extremely difficult for
researchers to cull paper-based systems and monitor the outcomes of variations
in treatment.  In fact, current automation trends will have to continue if
researchers are to have a chance of discovering the most clinically effective
and least expensive treatment regimens for particular diseases.

"The automation of medical records and the automated collection of health data
is going to be critical for any of this to work," Couch says.  "In our present
state of affairs in medical records, it's almost hopeless to really be able to
manage disease.  We need to capture

real-time information from large populations of patients concerning pre- and
post-intervention health status to be able to demonstrate that systematic
disease management interventions have resulted in improvements in the health
status of populations."

The benefits of automation will go beyond improved data collection.  Disease
management experts say it's crucial to get guiding information back to
practitioners so that they have it available at the point of care, when
they're treating patients.  That involves automating treatment guidelines and
assisting physicians with decision support systems.

For example, Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound has operated a program
called Clinical Roadmap.  It's paper-based for the physicians, although data
is compiled on a mainframe computer, says Robin Johnson, manager of the
program for the Seattle-based HMO.  But this month, Group Health will pilot
the program on its clinical workstations in physicians' offices for its
diabetic population.

Computer assistance

"It will be a decision support system that will give providers information
that helps them deliver the most appropriate care to their patients," she
says.  For example, a physician will be able to see how many diabetics he has
treated and, of those, how many have had eye or feet examinations to meet the
HMO's clinical guidelines.  Such examinations can prevent more expensive
treatment if a patient's condition deteriorates before it's detected by
clinicians.

Physicians' use of information technology will be important, both in
implementing practice suggestions as well as gathering data to refine disease
management approaches, says Dan Segedin, vice president of health systems
management for PCS Health Systems.  The Scottsdale, Ariz.-based pharmacy
benefits manager recently was acquired by Eli Lilly & Co., an
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical company, and is leading the parent company's
disease management effort.

"The linkage to physicians is critical.  They remain the primary decisionmaker
in health care, and on average, they're influencing how $1 million per
physician is being spent downstream," Segedin says.  "We need to have some
connection to physicians to get data from them to measure outcomes and to get
data back to them, which they now get in a piecemeal fashion, or clinical
guidelines over the network."

It's not enough for such information systems to collect financial information,
says Paul Tang, M.D., medical director of information systems at Northwestern
Memorial Hospital in Chicago.  "It's almost a no-brainer that we need
information systems, but if we don't look at clinical practice through our
systems and just look at costs, then we're missing a big opportunity," he
says.  "If the overemphasis on financial issues comes at the risk of ignoring
the quality issues, then we risk not gathering the right data."

Network building

The other challenge for applying information technology to disease management
initiatives is to build health information networks to make information
readily available at multiple sites, including physicians' offices and other
ambulatory care settings, Tang says.  Clinical guidelines and preventive
measures can most easily be implemented at outpatient settings to pre-empt
expensive inpatient treatment of serious conditions.

Northwestern, which is building a $580 million facility expected to be ready
in 1999, is designing a new enterprisewide information network that will
include links to about 600 physician offices in the building, as well as
ancillary diagnostic and testing services, in an attempt to give physicians
needed clinical and financial information drawn from one data repository.
"We're not addressing what physicians need to make these decisions, so we need
to target physicians in ambulatory care settings," Tang says.  "We have to
reorganize the data and design applications that help physicians use and view
data the way they need to."

Involving ambulatory care physicians is also part of the information systems
strategy of Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago, which is seeking to
automate its disease management program.  Automating best practice information
and patient documentation is important because Children's handles about
200,000 outpatient visits annually throughout the metropolitan Chicago area.
The hospital plans to begin testing a computer-based patient records system in
one of its primary care clinics this spring.

Disease management programs will become a way of life for most hospitals,
predicts Julie Bonello, Children's CIO, and physicians will need to use
information technology if they are to survive under managed care.  "I don't
know if there will be a big complaint from them about practicing cookie cutter
medicine, because this will affect their pocketbook," Bonello says.  "They'll
have to know how to aggressively manage their patients.  They'll need a lot of
information to do that and a lot of tools."

In addition to using tools such as electronic records to capture information
and data repositories to collect it, disease management will benefit from new
hardware technologies that bring information and data collection nearer to the
point of care.

New tools

For example, University of Texas M.D.  Anderson Cancer Center in Houston is
using its clinical repository, built over the last 50 years of specialized
care, to continually refine its critical pathways.  The cancer center is
giving its 28 case managers portable computers to aid in implementing its care
management program, says Charles Emery, the center's associate vice president
and CIO.

A similar approach is being developed by Capp Care, which is developing a
pen-based wireless computer that both captures clinical data and gives
physicians decision support at the bedside.  Capp Care, which has PPO
contracts with more than 104,000 physicians and 4,300 hospitals, hopes to
complete work on the system by mid-year and to market it commercially.

Marlow says such systems will offset costs with more efficiency, reductions in
costs and elimination of mistakes, which can reduce malpractice exposure.  The
payback period will shorten because technology costs are falling.

But he cites a more sobering reason why providers need to move to automation
to implement strategies such as disease management.  "Within three to five
years, providers that haven't taken strides to implement this type of
technology will be at a significant disadvantage, and they may be out of
business," he contends.  "If this helps reduce costs by two-thirds to
three-quarters, those using more archaic forms won't be able to compete."

Still, some organizations aren't sure that the concepts underlying disease
management will work and that money will be saved.  Some note that other
health care initiatives and technologies have been hyped as potential money
savers but only resulted in increased utilization.

Skepticism exists

One person who's hedging her bets is United HealthCare's Keown, who oversees
disease management.  She says the HMO company is "going into disease
management incrementally."  United will test modules for asthma, diabetes, low
back pain and chronic heart failure starting in March.

"We clearly don't know what pieces of the program work, and we don't want to
waste customers' money if we can't clearly show a value for the intervention,"
she says.  She cites some efforts at direct case management as not being
consistently successful in reducing health care expenditures.

But Capp Care's Marlow sees disease management as part of a logical
progression in health care that eventually will result in the development of
payment methodologies that move beyond capitation.  Where capitation sets a
financial incentive to limit care in order to maximize profits, Marlow
foresees a system that will give providers incentives to provide optimal care,
promoting the use of disease management.

Couch of Coopers and Lybrand believes providers will have to do more than
voice support for information technology and disease management programs.
"I'm still seeing primarily lip service to making these investments among
medical leaders," he says.  "They have to recognize that these types of
investments, if they are not made, will basically leave the management of
health care to those that have access to this information and data.

"If physicians are going to continue to have influence over clinical
decisionmaking, they will have to lead in making investments into electronic
medical records and into integrated systems that allow this research," he
continues.  "There's a tremendous amount of distrust that this kind of
information will be used against them.  If they don't have the courage to put
themselves out there and lead the medical information revolution, it will be
inflicted on them by those that have the technology and the information."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY, 1996

Information technology essential to HMO's disease management strategy


Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound is approaching disease management as
an extension of its concept of population-based care, says Robin Johnson,
manager of the Seattle-based HMO's Clinical Roadmap program.  And it plans to
use information technology to help physicians better monitor patients'
conditions and give them guidance in providing preventive and non-acute care.

Providers can define populations in many different ways, she says, such as
seniors or women of child-bearing age.  The Clinical Roadmap program is Group
Health's effort to define a population by its clinical needs, and then to
improve its services in certain key areas:

* Planning for care across the continuum rather than emphasizing sickness or
acute care needs.  * Looking at what the patient wants and needs vs.  meeting
the organization's needs.  * Looking at health care delivery instead of just
looking at business performance.  * Paying attention to patients' quality of
life.

The process of putting together a system of care for a clinical population has
helped Group Health predict and manage care by measuring important outcomes
and then using the information to see what it should be doing differently,
Johnson says.

"It's like a decision tree underlying the individual case," she adds.  "For a
diabetic, for example, you can not only see when the last eye exam was, but
there's a linkage between that and the underlying guideline.  The information
will be highlighted in some way to help the clinician know that the patient is
out of compliance."

Primary care physicians are the coordinating point for the system, she says,
and Group Health plans to use its growing network of workstations in
physicians' offices in two ways.  First, physicians will be able to use
patient registries to determine which of their patients have specific
conditions.  Secondly, by linking those patients to guidelines of care,
physicians can see suggestions for what treatment is appropriate.

The Clinical Roadmap program started in late 1992 to target diabetics and
those needing heart care, pregnancy care and tobacco cessation.  Since then,
it's been expanded to include depression, breast care, immunizations, HIV/AIDS
and asthma.

Besides functioning as a decision support system for physicians, the computer
network "will be a very important tool in aiding provider and patient
decisionmaking," Johnson says.  "It will help us evaluate outcomes and give us
better ways to learn what works from the care we're delivering.

"The power of the information system is that it can really make planning a
proactive component so the physician can focus on the care rather than
figuring out who needs to provide the care."

Anecdotal evidence suggests that Group Health patients who are involved in the
program feel more empowered by the approach and are more satisfied because
physicians are taking a proactive role in their health, not just treating them
when they get sick, Johnson says.

Group Health's disease management automation effort is part of a broader, $100
million, five-year initiative to build an enterprisewide network to connect
all care delivery sites.  It's using its own legacy results reporting
software, Sun Microsystems servers and networked personal computers, most of
which are made by Compaq Computer Corp.  (see story, July/August 1994 issue).




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-15</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-50</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh30.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023000 text/html 48193
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:28:06 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:14 GMT
Content-length: 48004
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh30.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet <BR>
JANUARY 20, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>Funding Problems Delay Iowa CHMIS Date</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(862 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>Why WEDI And ANSI Are Working Together To Boost Standardization</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(832 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>How Telemedicine Is Improving Emergency Care In North Carolina</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(966 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Maryland's Certification Program Remains On Track</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(252 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>With MedAccess, Employees Get More Plan Information The Cyberspace Way</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(650 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Using The Internet To Find Community Physicians</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(255 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>To Thrive In Managed Care, Oregon Docs Take The Health Data Network&nbsp;Initiative</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1134 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>The Pharmacy Fund Looks For Rapid Expansion Of Its Rapid RxEmit Program</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(596 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>Why VHA Is Dropping Its Supply-Side EDI Software</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(407 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>The ANSI Health Care Standards</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(144 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>WHIN Expands Its Wisconsin Network Reach</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(179 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>The Federal Privacy Bill Will Get A Close Look At WEDI's Annual Conference</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(171 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>New Database On The Net Gives Health Care Plan Performance Measures</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(114 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>PCS Veteran Moley Moves To Lead A Sister Company:  Integrated Medical</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(153 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

Funding Problems Delay Iowa CHMIS Date


With implementation costs higher than expected, a July deadline for starting
Iowa's state-sanctioned community health management information system likely
will be delayed at least one year.

The Iowa CHMIS program-including a centralized state data repository and
certification of claims clearinghouses-could be headed back to the drawing
board after four vendor bids for building and operating the data repository
came in at least $1.5 million over projections.

On Dec.  15, the Iowa CHMIS governing board voted to recommend to state
legislators that the mandate to start the program this July be postponed for
one year.  And administrative rules released for public comment in December to
implement a certification program for transaction processing networks are on
hold.

The repository and other activities of the program were to be funded by a
transaction fee surcharge of about 3 cents on electronically transmitted
claims and other transactions.  But because the project costs are higher than
anticipated, the surcharge would approach 18 cents plus membership fees,
violating a tenet of the program that it provide overall savings.

Four bids on the data repository ranged from $6 million to $7 million over
five years, which were $1.5 million to $2 million more than anticipated.

"When we started this process, we always recognized the volatility of the
cost/benefit process," says Walter Tomenga, Iowa CHMIS chair and vice
president of the Farm Bureau Insurance Companies.  "We knew we wouldn't be
able to understand the total cost ramifications until we put a system together
and put it out for bid.  We've not backed away from our commitment; we're now
looking at different models."

A 15-member task force began weekly meetings on Jan.  4 hoping to draft a new
CHMIS program by March, but some question how much can be saved.  "The bottom
line is the stakeholders are not willing to pay for one centralized
repository," says Susan Voss, projects director for the Iowa Division of
Insurance, which has regulatory jurisdiction over the program.  "It's good
that the board decided to take another look rather than rush into
implementation only to find out it's not working."

Local Links First

Outside observers concur, saying local health information networks need to be
well established before statewide efforts can succeed.  "A statewide
initiative is premature at this point," says Pamela Hanlon, president of
Community Medical Network Society, Atlanta, an association for those
interested in networking issues.  "We are not seeing successful state networks
at this time."

Since lawmakers enacted legislation in 1994 to create the centralized data
repository and require that all providers and payers be linked to certified
clearinghouses by this July, the electronic data interchange environment has
changed in Iowa.

As a result of the looming state government mandate and national growth of EDI
implementation, providers and payers are well on the road to using a range of
electronic transactions.  As a result, many of the goals of CHMIS already are
being accomplished.  "Just the threat of all this has made a lot of groups
move," Voss says.

For instance, CHMIS organizers anticipated that such transactions as
eligibility verification, preauthorization of treatment and electronic funds
transfers eventually would be significant income-generators for the program.
But vendors already are widely marketing these and other EDI services in the
state.

"A lot of the original concepts embedded in CHMIS-we can look at the private
sector and see that they're doing that now," Tomenga says.

In addition, larger payers and provider organizations already collect and
analyze all types of data and don't see a business need to increase data
collection or share it with the state, Voss adds.

"One of the frustrations that people have is when the government says, 'Give
us all of your data and then we'll decide later what to do with it,'" says
Richard Rubin, executive director of the Foundation for Health Care Quality, a
Seattle-based national CHMIS resource center.  "The original CHMIS model has
not proven to be viable."

Another byproduct of the CHMIS program as the original July 1996 deadline
neared is new interest in a national clearinghouse accreditation program that
Iowa adopted.

"We've had a number of companies apply in part because of Iowa," says Lee
Barrett, executive director of the Electronic Health Network Accreditation
Commission.  Those companies include Athena of North America, Louisville, Ky.;
MDIP Inc., Sioux Falls, S.D.; and The ISYS Group, Des Moines, Iowa.

Iowa was the first state to adopt the commission's standards, with Maryland
expecting to follow suit this year.

Barrett hopes the trend will continue, regardless of the setback in Iowa.  "It
certainly added credence to what we're trying to do to promote certification
across the nation," he says.

For now, nearly everything is on the table as Iowa CHMIS supporters craft a
new program.  "We have two stakes in the ground that are not movable:  the
collection of data and standardized transactions," Tomenga says.

Despite the funding setback, Iowa's CHMIS isn't dead, Hanlon says.  "They're
going to pull something off that will be good for their constituency and that
they can afford," she says.  "It just will look different."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

Why WEDI And ANSI Are Working Together To Boost Standardization


The American National Standards Institute's ASC X12N insurance subcommittee
and the Workgroup for Electronic Data Interchange are joining forces to
develop educational programs to increase the use of standardized electronic
health care claims and related transactions.

Following an open forum in December at the X12N interim meeting to discuss
problems with implementing the ANSI 837 claims transaction set, the two
organizations are discussing ways to coordinate development of more
educational programs.

WEDI and X12N organized the forum in Kansas City, Mo., to determine whether
low acceptance of the X12 837 standard format for claims is due to technical
flaws in the standard or other factors (see HDNN, Nov.  20, 1995).

While the standard is maligned by many in the industry as being too complex,
it is technically sound, providers and payers at the forum agreed.

Attendees pointed to a lack of educational efforts as a major reason ASC X12
standards are not widely used in health care.

"A lot of people don't know where to go for information," says Bruce Horn,
manager of electronic commerce for The Associated Group, an Indianapolis-based
payer, and co-chair of the X12N health care task group.  "We don't have the
infrastructure to help these people."

Some say the meeting provided a "wake-up call" to WEDI.

"It is a golden opportunity for WEDI to make something happen, and hopefully
they got that message," says Gary Beatty, electronic commerce manager for
Employers Health Insurance Co., Green Bay, Wis.

WEDI Responds

Message received, replies Gene Carruth, vice president of Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Arizona and WEDI treasurer.  "We can be a conduit to help get
educational materials out to grassroots organizations," he adds.

But WEDI likely will not hold educational forums, says Gina Grage,
reimbursement coordinator for Mayo Medical Center and co-chair of WEDI's
educational technical advisory group.

Rather, WEDI will help local entities, such as medical associations or EDI
resource centers, put on seminars by developing educational materials and
creating a speakers bureau.

For instance, the WEDI advisory group is putting the finishing touches on a
slide presentation on the basic issues of electronic commerce in the health
care industry.

WEDI's commitment to assisting local educational efforts is good news for some
attendees of the special X12N forum, who worried that the two organizations
would settle for having special educational seminars at future X12N or WEDI
meetings that providers and payers would have to travel hundreds of miles to
attend.

"Whoever does the education will have to go out to the masses," says Paul
Montgomery, EDI translation specialist at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Kansas.  "The masses will not go out to EDI."

Still, 185 people attended the special X12N/WEDI meeting in December on only
30 days notice, a sign that there clearly is interest in the health care
community to standardize transactions, Horn says.

Uniform Implementation

Those attending the meeting told X12N and WEDI leaders that increased use of
the ANSI 837 is hampered by the lack of a uniform implementation guide.

For instance, at least six industry groups, including WEDI, have written
implementation guides.

But this problem should be resolved during 1996, as X12N is beginning to write
standardized, low-cost implementation guides for the 837 and other transaction
sets.

Some pioneers who have implemented the ANSI 837 caution that there are no
shortcuts to the procedure.

Because mainframe-based translation software can cost as much as $200,000,
many organizations are trying to implement the standard by writing translation
software themselves-and doing it wrong.

Following implementation guidelines properly and using commercially available
translation software can ease the implementation task, Beatty says.

He advises organizations to start slowly with personal computer-based
translation software and enhance their systems as they gain knowledge about
translation and data mapping issues.  "Don't build your own-that will slow
implementation," he says.

Today's PCs are powerful enough to handle transmitting many claims-related
transactions in large volumes.

For instance, Employers Health Insurance Co.  recently sent eligibility
rosters of 1.8 million people to a major pharmaceutical company from one PC
using a $3,500 off-the-shelf translator.  The transfer took about 10 hours.
The expected 25,000 daily eligibility transactions will take about 10 minutes.

Organizations considering buying a translator need to do some homework
beforehand to gain a better understanding of translation technology and what's
needed to fulfill business needs, says Daniel Kazzaz, president of Paper Free
Systems Inc., a translation software vendor in Fairfax, Va.

Once a vendor is selected, the buyer should get the software on a trial basis,
along with sample maps for transferring one claim format into another, he
adds.

Kazzaz applauds enhanced educational programs to implement standardized
transactions but warns that many people want quick answers.  "People mean
different things by education," he says.  "What they really mean is they want
someone to tell them, 'These products work and these don't.'"





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

How Telemedicine Is Improving Emergency Care In North Carolina


A handful of hospitals in North Carolina are testing telemedicine
consultations between emergency physicians at rural hospitals and academic
medical centers with a long-term goal of expanding the program statewide.

In planning for more than a year, the pilot program began on October 1 as
physicians at 49-bed Chatham Hospital in Siler City began consulting with
counterparts at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel
Hill.  That was followed later that month when Bowman Gray Medical Center,
Winston-Salem, linked with Wilkes Regional Medical Center, North Wilkesboro.

In November, teleconsultations began between the Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, and the Southeastern Regional Medical Center, Lumberton.  East
Carolina University School of Medicine, Greenville, and Pungo District
Hospital, Belhaven, began telemedicine consultations in December.  Project
organizers also hope to create links between the U.S.  Naval Hospital,
Jacksonville, and the East Carolina School of Medicine.

"We want to test the telemedicine equipment in an emergency room setting to
see if it can be used effectively to diagnose and treat diseases from a
distance, and whether it will be a viable resource to rural hospitals," says
Gayle Fitzgerald, project manager for the North Carolina Telemedicine Network
and a policy analyst with the Office of State Planning, the state agency
overseeing the project.

Camera Shy

Participants already have learned some lessons.  Chatham Hospital spent 45
days familiarizing its staff with the equipment and helping them over their
fear of being filmed.

"Emergency room people aren't shy individuals but when you try to get them on
camera they get that way quick," Chatham CEO Ted Chapin says.

Workstations-one telediagnostics and another teleradiology-are housed at both
UNC and Chatham.  The backbone of the network is the North Carolina
Information Highway, a fiber-optic network developed by the state and
telephone companies.  The network uses high-speed asynchronous transfer mode
switching technology that simultaneously routes huge amounts of voice, data
and video communications.

The telemedicine program-and the fiber-optic backbone-are part of a larger
effort in North Carolina to develop a comprehensive health information
networking infrastructure statewide.

The effort began in 1994 when Gov.  James Hunt created the North Carolina
Health Care Information and Communications Alliance-comprising information
systems companies, state universities, government agencies, hospitals and
physicians-to map out the state's health information networking strategy (see
Automated Medical Payments News, Sept.  20, 1994).  Among other projects, the
alliance is developing a statewide master patient index, which will undergo
initial testing this spring.

The telemedicine project has cost about $2.6 million so far, including a
$550,000 grant the network received in 1994 from the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration, an agency of the U.S.
Department of Commerce.

Funding Concerns

The project is scheduled to end in April but North Carolina will ask NTIA for
a six-month extension of time-but no additional funding-to collect more data
to analyze the benefits of the program.  Participants experienced delays of up
to six months in implementing the program because it took longer than
anticipated to identify and acquire the necessary equipment, Fitzgerald says.

While the project now focuses on emergency department applications at a
limited number of sites, participants hope to expand the network and include
scheduled consultations, but funding is a major concern.

Because of the emergency nature of the telemedicine consultations during the
test, the network operates on dedicated telecommunication lines that are open
24 hours a day.

"The expense of operating the fiber optics network is fairly great because
there aren't that many sites connected to it, but that cost should drop
dramatically as more sites are connected," says William Mattern, senior
associate dean for academic affairs at the University of North Carolina School
of Medicine at Chapel Hill.

The monthly line charges-at least $4,000 per participant-is shared by the
state and the hospitals.  In April, state funding expires and hospitals will
bear the full cost, Fitzgerald says.

Physicians using the network are doing so pro bono because very few insurance
companies or health plans pay for telemedicine consultations.

But with the Health Care Financing Administration paying for some telemedicine
services in a limited pilot program, Fitzgerald hopes payers eventually will
provide reimbursement if the federal program proves telemedicine is
cost-effective.

Meanwhile, the state is negotiating with regional telephone companies for
reduced charges for the telemedicine program.  If the negotiations are
unsuccessful, the scope of the program will be reduced, Fitzgerald says.

Participating providers praise the telemedicine program.  "It puts us on the
cutting edge for a small rural hospital, and physicians like the security of
having consultative expertise at their beck and call," Chapin says.

"The fact that physicians can talk to each other, look at images and hear
sounds with the patient participating offers huge advantages in terms of
providing care," Mattern adds.

Issues that participants hope to address during the pilot programs include the
cost-effectiveness of telemedicine, liability concerns and the willingness of
physicians to use the teleconsulting service on a regular basis after the
pilots are over.

By using telemedicine, smaller hospitals can treat and admit more patients,
rather than transferring patients to other hospitals.  "We're trying to save
patients money, and the payback for me would be an increase in the hospital
census," Chapin says.

The University of North Carolina School of Medicine takes a long-term view of
the program's potential benefits.

"The real payback will be when managed care becomes the predominant method of
care in the state and medical care is capitated," Mattern says.  "In the long
run it will be less expensive to take care of patients without having them
travel to medical centers, and telemedicine looks like it can be an extremely
valuable tool in allowing patients to remain at local sites."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

Maryland's Certification Program Remains On Track


While Iowa's effort to mandate state certification of clearinghouses is on
hold, a less ambitious certification effort is rolling along in Maryland.

Under rules being promulgated now, clearinghouses can seek state
certification, which includes meeting certain performance standards and
committing to being an open network that accepts all claims, beginning July 1.
Clearinghouses will gain state certification by being accredited by the
Electronic Health Network Accreditation Commission, an industry-sponsored
national program.

Maryland decided against mandating state certification because the state's
attorney general said a mandate could violate due process laws by depriving
businesses of the right to operate in the state without the benefit of
redress.

But while the program is voluntary, there's an extra incentive that kicks in a
year later.  By July 1997, all payers operating in the state must designate at
least one certified clearinghouse from which they will accept claims.

"We don't see any other way for there to be guarantees of open networks
without payers having at least one open door," says Benjamin Steffen, deputy
director of the Maryland Health Care Access and Cost Commission, the agency
responsible for the certification program.  Market pressures likely will force
most clearinghouses to eventually seek state certification, he adds.

Maryland decided to adopt the Electronic Health Network Accreditation
Commission's program after its confidentiality provisions were strengthened in
December to address the state's concerns.  Now, accredited clearinghouses have
to spell out in contracts how end users will use data transmitted through
their networks.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

With MedAccess, Employees Get More Plan Information The Cyberspace Way


Open enrollment, an annual ritual for employees and employers, is about to
leap into cyberspace.

This month, MedAccess Corp., a privately-owned, start-up company based in
Lexington, Mass., is introducing a new service enabling employees to access
information about their health insurance plans on the Internet.

The service, Health Fair Online, targets corporations employing at least 500
people, says Jaime Taaffe, founder and CEO of MedAccess.

An employer would pay MedAccess a fee to provide detailed, current information
on its health plan options to its employees on the MedAccess World Wide Web
page.  The company already has assembled a massive database of information on
virtually every managed care plan in the country, Taaffe says.

In October, Health Fair Online was tested at GTE Laboratories, Waltham, Mass.
Over a three-week open enrollment period during which the company offered the
choice of seven different health plans, about half of its 500 employees
accessed plan information on-line via MedAccess.

Available Information

The information included marketing materials for the seven managed care plans,
audio messages from the plans' senior executives, the background and
availability of physicians in those plans, the contracts between GTE and the
plans and information from the Health Plan Employer Data Information Set, a
standardized set of quality and performance measurements used to compare
managed care plans.

By calling up the Web site and then entering a social security number and a
pin number, employees could find out what their contribution and that of GTE
were to the health plan in the past year and compare those costs to the plans
being offered for the coming year.  Employees also could run scenarios
pertaining to their personal and family health care circumstances to learn
what plan may suit them best and its cost.

Based on the pilot program and a survey of GTE employees, MedAccess concluded
that employees are willing to go on-line for health plan information, Taaffe
says.

"The overwhelming majority said the information influenced their decision and
people found it very convenient because we were able to provide more
information and it was easy to navigate," he adds.

Responding to requests from GTE employees, MedAccess will add more information
on health-related areas such as life and disability insurance.

The interactive service provides more information in a more efficient manner
than other options, such as giving employees brochures, Taaffe says.  This
results in better informed employees and helps them choose the best plan for
their needs rather than selecting a plan simply because it has the lowest
cost, he adds.

GTE Corp., the parent company of GTE Laboratories, is looking for programs to
give its employees assistance in choosing the best quality plans because
"quality is cheaper," says Dwight McNeill, health care information manager for
GTE Corp.

Health Fair Online is feasible and less expensive than the traditional ways
corporations have sought to inform employees about their health plan choices,
he adds.  "I imagine the cost would be 25% of the cost of mailing and printing
paper."

While GTE Laboratories was pleased with the performance of MedAccess, its
parent company hasn't decided if it will retain the service, McNeill says.
GTE Laboratories agreed to test the service because its corporate office is
near MedAccess', and it was familiar with the firm and its personnel.

GTE Corp.  employs about 100,000 people in the United States.  Before the
company can decide whether to further utilize MedAccess, it must sell the
concept to the various divisions, McNeill says.  While he is impressed with
MedAccess, McNeill says it could use more video, graphics and color.

Taaffe declines to say whether MedAccess has signed any customers for its roll
out.  The cost of the service will depend on the company's size and the scope
of its health care benefits.  The company has a demonstration Web site at
http://www.medaccess.com.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

Using The Internet To Find Community Physicians


A new Internet service rolling out in March will enable members of managed
care plans to use personal computers to find affiliated physicians in their
community.

GeoAccess Inc., Overland Park, Kan., developed the service, called Referral
Online, which is free of charge for health plan members.  Insurance companies
and other payers will pick up the cost, which varies due to membership and
other factors but averages about $12,000 a year.

GeoAccess, formed in 1989, specializes in software and consulting services
that help its 300 payer clients measure health care access issues.

For instance, managed care plans can use the software to compare the employee
addresses of prospective employer clients with addresses of the plan's
regionally contracted providers, showing the degree of access to care that
employees would have under the plan.  GeoAccess also markets software to
create provider directories.

In essence, Referral Online takes these existing services and reformats them
for health plan membership use on the Internet.

To use Referral Online, a plan member dials up a Web site-either for the
health plan or at GeoAccess-and enters his or her street address.  After the
member selects a physician specialty from a subsequent menu, a listing of area
contracted physicians with address, telephone number and distance from the
member's home is displayed.

Health plans can make additional information available, such as office hours
and bilingual services.  In addition, Referral Online can search for
individual physicians by name.

A Web site demonstration is available at http://www.geoaccess.com.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

To Thrive In Managed Care, Oregon Docs Take The Health Data Network
Initiative


While several state medical associations have endorsed electronic claims
clearinghouses and obtained discounted rates as an incentive for members to
use electronic data interchange, few, if any, have gone so far as to develop
an electronic network.

Thus, the Oregon Medical Association is blazing a trail as it introduces a
statewide health information network, which could evolve to look much like a
community health information network.

Tested in the Portland area during the latter half of 1995, the Oregon Medical
Electronic Network is a "custom health care network" tailored to the needs of
its users, and those needs will determine how the network will evolve, says
Robert Dernedde, the medical association's executive director.

The medical association developed the network to help member physicians
successfully compete in the state's growing managed care business.

"It dawned on us that there was only one way we could help the medical
community survive this demand and that was to automate the administrative
process," Dernedde says.

Available Transactions

The network now enables physicians to verify insurance eligibility with
participating payers, refer patients to other physicians and communicate with
other users via electronic mail.

Other services scheduled for testing in 1996 include submitting claims to
participating payers, submitting certain prescriptions to pharmacies,
submitting laboratory orders and receiving results and submitting workers'
compensation injury reports.

The network doesn't include a centralized data repository, but expects to
eventually assist physicians in creating computer-based patient records.  How
that will be accomplished has yet to be determined, Dernedde says.

But before the network reaches that stage, it will have to address such thorny
issues as confidentiality and ownership of the information, he adds.

This month, the network began connecting members of the Salem-based Mid-Valley
Independent Physicians Association, whose 368 members practice at about 160
sites in two eastern counties, to the network.

Already connected are 146 physicians at 22 sites in the Portland area who were
hand-picked to participate in the pilot because they had a variety of
different information systems.

Participating Payers

The eight payers that participated in the pilot are:  HMO of Oregon, the
managed care plan of Blue Cross of Oregon; Sisters of Providence Good Health
Plan; ODS Health Plan; Physicians Association of Clackamas County; Pacificare
Inc.; Pacific Source; QualMed Inc.; and the Oregon Medical Assistance Program,
the state Medicaid program.

The state's two major workers compensation carriers-State Accident Insurance
Fund and Liberty Northwest Insurance Corp.-have committed to use the network
and Dernedde expects to hook them up shortly.

Mid-Valley has committed $1.2 million over the next 15 months to hook up
affiliated providers, with 20 sites expected to be on-line by February.

The network also is negotiating with organizations representing about 850
physicians in the Eugene, Springfield and Medford areas.

Physician-Driven

Physicians took the lead in developing the network to avoid political and
competitive problems that have plagued community health information networks
elsewhere.

"If payers or health systems take the lead, then other payers and health
systems won't participate," Dernedde says.  "The physicians are the ones who
ultimately have to provide the encounter data and they need to be able to
access multiple health plans, hospitals, pharmacies and other providers."

Precisely because of the need for connectivity to other providers, the medical
association's network is not limited to its member physicians.  "We're set up
in a non-proprietary way so that all participants who have a legitimate need
to use the highway can come to the table," Dernedde adds.  The network hopes
that as physicians in certain communities join the network, local hospitals,
pharmacies and other providers will join as well.

For now, the network is concentrating on signing up physicians through
independent practice associations or similar groups.  It anticipates serving
most of the 7,000 physicians in the state within five years through deals with
the state's 30 IPAs.

The state medical association chose Peregrin Medical Review, Beaverton, Ore.,
in February 1994 to install and run a frame relay-based network to switch
transactions.

Unlike other vendors, Peregrin understood the network's specific needs,
Dernedde says.  "The others all had their preconceived notions and they wanted
us to fit the round hole when we were square," he adds.

The network uses systems integration software developed by Informedics Inc., a
Lake Oswego, Ore.-based physician practice management software company.  The
software, HealthLink, easily integrates with many practice management systems,
including Informedics' ClinicManager product.

Lessons Learned

Now that the network is operational, the biggest obstacle- and lesson learned
from the pilot-is overcoming the fear of technology among physicians and their
staffs.  "You really have to work with the people in each installation so that
they can get comfortable with the system and will use it regularly," Dernedde
says.

The association hopes the network will enable physicians to communicate with
each other more efficiently and enable them to conduct outcomes research
geographically, by specialty, "or by any other configuration the medical
community might want to put together," Dernedde adds.

For instance, Mid-Valley hopes that electronic connectivity will enhance its
existing data collection and analysis programs.  "What we're really interested
in is having access to our raw data to do outcomes-based studies," says Jan
Buffa, Mid-Valley's CEO.

Mid-Valley operates its own data repository, downloading information from
certain health care payers on a quarterly basis.  But the Oregon network will
give it access to greater data on a more timely basis and enhance its data
collection capabilities, she adds.

Mid-Valley, the IPA in Salem, expects its investment in the network to pay for
itself within two years through reductions in administrative expenses and
increased staff productivity, says Michael Rohwer, a member of the
organization's board of directors and a general internist with the Doctors
Clinic, in Salem.  The Oregon Clinic, a multi-specialty facility in Portland
that participated in the pilot, already relies heavily on the network for
checking the insurance eligibility of patients, says Regina Tipton, the
practice's computer education coordinator.

"I don't know what the cost savings are, but if you take one individual who's
making $8 an hour who calls up the insurance company and waits 45 minutes to
get the answer, versus using the network and getting the information within
two minutes; we absolutely will get a lot more done," she adds.

The medical association expects to eventually profit from the network, but
Dernedde declines to say when profitability is expected or what the
association's investment has been.

Members of the medical association pay an average of $3,100 to $3,500 to join
the network, plus a monthly software licensing fee of $50.

The association, which has 5,263 members, including 4,300 practicing
physicians, charges non-members an additional $50 monthly surcharge.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

The Pharmacy Fund Looks For Rapid Expansion Of Its Rapid RxEmit Program


Having signed more than 300 pharmacies in 30 states to its Rapid RxEmit
receivables financing program in the past year, The Pharmacy Fund is preparing
to double the number of participating pharmacies.

Since December 1994, The Pharmacy Fund, a New York-based receivables financing
company, has paid more than 1.1 million claims the next business day through
the short-term receivables financing program.

To fund the receivables financing effort, The Pharmacy Fund is using about $25
million in investments from company officials and companies such as Mutual of
Omaha and Centre Financial Services Holdings Ltd.  But the fund has been
attempting since September to draw $80 million on a $500 million line of
credit arranged by Smith Barney to expand the program to 335 other pharmacies
that have committed to joining.

This month the fund expects to close on the $80 million in new financing,
ending months of frustrating legal maneuverings.

"We thought we could do this relatively simply," says Pharmacy Fund President
Jeffrey Greene.  "The legal bill is twice what was expected.  We have hundreds
of pharmacies signed up and we can't give them a start date until the lawyers
are finished."

How It Works

Rapid RxEmit uses electronic data interchange to process claims and evaluate
the credit risk of prescription payers.  Pharmacies using Rapid RxEmit submit
claims through National Data Corp., Atlanta, to the respective payers.  The
payers adjudicate the claims and transmit remittance advice back to the
pharmacies through National Data.  But payers also transmit copies of
adjudicated claims to the Pharmacy Fund.

The fund then uses evaluation software to check for duplicate or denied
claims, or claims from unapproved payers.  Only one-half of one percent of
claims are from payers that have payment histories so poor that the fund won't
buy the claims, Greene says.

The Pharmacy Fund pays approved claims the next business day, primarily
through direct deposit to pharmacy bank accounts.  The fund charges a fee
equal to 2% of each claim financed, and then assumes responsibility for
getting payment from payers.

The program dramatically improves cash flow for pharmacies, which often wait
30 to 90 days for payment and find the 2% fee money well spent.  "When you're
waiting more than 30 days for payment, you're really financing the
prescription program of these health plans," says Lou Giannotti, director of
pharmacies for Mayfair Super Markets, Elizabeth, N.J.  "The fund remedies the
task of chasing the receivables."

About 80% of claims for Mayfair's 12 pharmacies are paid the next business
day.  Most of the remaining claims are for the New Jersey Medicaid program,
which may join Rapid RxEmit later this year.

The Pharmacy Fund's evaluation software includes credit and payment histories
of 2,800 prescription payers, ranging from major corporations such as General
Motors Co.  to two volunteer fire departments.

To assess the credit risk of payers, the fund pulls reports from
investment-grading companies such as Moody's Investor Service, Standard &
Poor's Corp.  and Fitch Investor Service Inc.

Other reports come from Dun & Bradstreet Inc.  and state insurance divisions.
But the best source of information, Greene says, is The Pharmacy Fund's direct
experience with getting paid by the insurers.

One of the biggest challenges of Rapid RxEmit has been convincing payers to
pay The Pharmacy Fund rather than pharmacies.  While most payers agree, the
process is cumbersome.  "Every pharmacy we turn on, we have to notify 20 to 25
payers to change their files and that's all paper-driven," says Fred Tarter,
chairman of the fund.  





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

Why VHA Is Dropping Its Supply-Side EDI Software


A major hospital purchasing coalition is abandoning its proprietary software
for hospitals to submit supply orders electronically because its limited
functionality doesn't address customer needs.  Instead, VHA Inc., Irving,
Texas, is recommending that its member hospitals use the Quik Link materials
management software from Abbott Park, Ill.-based Abbott Laboratories, or the
Echo software from Choice Medical Inc., Louisville, Ky.

Quik Link, which has 900 customers, accommodates purchase orders,
acknowledgments and an electronic catalogue.  Echo offers its 300 customers
those same services, as well as electronic invoicing.  Both software products
support standardized transactions developed by the American National Standards
Institute ASC X12 subcommittee.

VHA is abandoning its own software because its functions are limited to
purchase orders and acknowledgments, and it doesn't accommodate customers'
requirements for easier connections to multiple vendors, says Gregory
Lindstrom, manager of VHA Net Services.  "We won't have to continue to utilize
VHA resources to build and design software, and provide customer and technical
support," he adds.

VHA expects to stop supporting the software by next January.

Abbott, a major manufacturer and distributor of pharmaceutical products and
other health care products, will supply Quik Link free to VHA hospitals.

Choice Medical is offering a 5% discount off the $495 price of the Echo
software.  The company also will offer discounts on annual support fees and
additional modules.

For Abbott, which merely provides software as a service to customers, the VHA
agreement will have little impact.  "We want to encourage our customers to use
EDI technology to keep costs out of the supply chain," says Alan Greenthal,
Abbott's senior systems analyst.

But the agreement will have a big impact on Choice Medical, says Rachel
Foerster, principal and founder of Rachel Foerster and Associates, a Beach
Park, Ill.-based EDI consulting firm.

Choice Medical markets Echo to smaller hospitals, but has more advanced
software, called RSVP, for the complete materials management needs of larger
hospitals.  Thus, the VHA deal gives the company a way to enter the larger
hospital market.

"It has a very positive impact for Choice Medical because they have some very
easy-to-use and affordable systems," Foerster says.  "Quik Link is limited in
functionality compared to Choice's Echo and it's not a full materials
management inventory system like Choice's RSVP."

"The VHA endorsement is almost as good as the Good Housekeeping seal of
approval," says George Puckett, vice president of Choice Medical.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

The ANSI Health Care Standards


148:  Transaction for reporting workers' compensation first reports of injury.
Approved in August 1993.

270/271:  Transactions for inquiry and response of insurance eligibility
information.  Approved in February 1993.

275:  Transaction for patient information, such as claims attachments.
Approved in June 1995.

276/277:  Transactions for inquiry and response of a status of a submitted
claim.  Approved in October 1993.

278:  Transaction for health care service review functions, such as
certification and referral information.  Approved in October 1994.

834:  Transaction for submitting and updating health plan enrollment
information.  Approved in February 1992.

835:  Transaction for remittance advice.  Approved in October 1991.

837:  Transaction for claims submission.  Approved in October 1992.

IHCEBI/IHCEBR:  Real-time, interactive standards for insurance eligibility
inquiry and response.  The first health care transaction written in the
international EDIFACT syntax.  Approved in October 1994.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

WHIN Expands Its Wisconsin Network Reach


A large Wisconsin independent practice association is committing up to
$500,000 to link its 300 primary care physicians to the Wisconsin Health
Information Network.

The 750-member Community Physicians Network in Sauk City will pay for all
software and training, and a "substantial subsidy" of hardware costs, to
assist 100 clinics in joining the Wisconsin network, says Gary Busack,
director of planning and development with Unity Health Plans.  Busack was
interim executive director of Community Physicians Network when the agreement
was finalized in December.

"The network is a means of Community Physicians Network being able to provide
more data to their members on how they are doing with their managed care
commitments," Busack says.  "This is what primary care needs if it is to be
successful in the future."

The clinics are in 30 southern Wisconsin counties, substantially expanding the
geographical reach of the network, which has concentrated on the Milwaukee and
Madison metropolitan regions.

The Wisconsin Health Information Network is owned by Ameritech Inc.  and
Aurora Health Care, a Milwaukee-based hospital system.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

The Federal Privacy Bill Will Get A Close Look At WEDI's Annual Conference


The Workgroup for Electronic Data Interchange has added a special forum on
federal medical records confidentiality legislation to the agenda of its Jan.
29-31 conference in Orlando, Fla.  The forum, from 9 a.m.  to noon on Jan.  29
focuses on the Medical Records Confidentiality Act, introduced by Sen.  Robert
Bennett (R-Utah) last fall.

The event is more an informational seminar than a debate on the bill's merits.
"It's a workshop for people who want to understand what the bill does and what
it doesn't do," says WEDI Executive Director Barbara Souder.

Panel members include Paul Yost, legislative director for Sen.  Bennett;
Kathleen Frawley, Washington director of the American Health Information
Management Association; Marjorie Carey, assistant general counsel of the
American Hospital Association; Jeanne Shulte Scott, chair of the Association
for Electronic Health Care Transactions; and Joel Gimpel, associate general
counsel of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.  The forum cost is
$250, but it is free for WEDI conference registrants.  For more information,
call 617-374-9170.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

New Database On The Net Gives Health Care Plan Performance Measures


Employers and other purchasers of managed care, as well as consumers, have new
information at their fingertips to help assess the performance of individual
health care plans.

Last month, the National Committee for Quality Assurance rolled out a World
Wide Web site that includes a list of health plans that have obtained NCQA
accreditation and HEDIS report cards that show how the services of a managed
care plan compare to other plans.  Nearly half of the nation's HMOs have been
reviewed as part of NCQA's accreditation program.

The web site also includes NCQA conference information and various
organization publications.

The Internet address for the web site is http://www.ncqa.org.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH DATA NETWORK NEWS via NewsNet
JANUARY 20, 1996

PCS Veteran Moley Moves To Lead A Sister Company:  Integrated Medical


Integrated Medical Systems, the Golden, Colo.-based health information network
vendor owned by Eli Lilly & Co., has new leadership.

Kevin Moley, senior vice president of PCS Health Systems, is the new president
and CEO of Integrated Medical.  Moley succeeds Kevin Green, who resigned on
Jan.  10 to accept a similar position at an undisclosed company.

Moley was a driving force in PCS' investment in Integrated Medical Systems in
1994.  Eli Lilly bought both companies last year.

Moley, who served as Deputy Secretary of the U.S.  Department of Health and
Human Services in the Bush Administration, was interim CEO of Integrated
Medical Systems during much of 1994.

The company operates 45 health information networks linking hospitals to
affiliated physicians.  The leadership change won't result in philosophical
changes, Moley says.

But he expects to use new capital from Eli Lilly to expand the company's
client base and services.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-16</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-91</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh10.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023054 text/html 30609
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:28:35 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:02 GMT
Content-length: 30420
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh10.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet <BR>
January 1, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>GRANTS ALERT</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>TECHNOLOGIES FOR NEUROSCIENCE (NSF)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(316 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>BIOCHEMISTRY AND MOLECULAR STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION (NSF)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(229 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>BRIEF AIDS INTERVENTIONS (NIMH)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(177 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH ON EPIDEMIOLOGY OF DRUG ABUSE (NIDA)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(163 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>DRUG AND ALCOHOL USE AND ABUSE IN RURAL AMERICA&nbsp;(NIDA/NIAAA/USDA)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(351 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>MINORITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT (NIMH)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(231 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>TRANSITION FROM CARDIAC HYPERTROPHY TO OVERT HEART FAILURE&nbsp;(NHLBI)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(215 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>BEHAVIORAL PAIN RESEARCH (NIH)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(162 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>STATE COURTS GRANTS (SJI)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(185 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>NATIONAL BOATING SAFETY (DOT)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(269 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>SMALL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:  NEW YORK STATE (HUD)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(221 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>GRANTS CALENDAR</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(88 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS BRIEFING</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>TOOLS OF THE TRADE:  THE FEDERAL REGISTER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(667 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>AGRICULTURE SETS RULES FOR GRANT PROGRAMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(287 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

TECHNOLOGIES FOR NEUROSCIENCE (NSF)

Scope:  The National Science Foundation is inviting
proposals to plan and initiate collaborative projects to
integrate enabling electronic and information technologies
into neuroscience research as part of the federal "Decade of
the Brain" initiative.

Deadline:  March 15.

Funds:  Up to $100,000 per project for one or two years.
NSF expects to make eight to 12 awards.

Eligibility:  Domestic academic institutions and nonprofit
organizations with academically-oriented engineering and
science research programs.

Proposals must include teams of two or more investigators,
including at least one neuroscientist and one investigator
from a relevant discipline, such as applied mathematics,
computer science, intelligent control/neuroengineering,
interfaces, mathematical and statistical modeling, network
engineering, physics, scientific visualization, sensor
design, signal processing, simulation and systems
integration/interoperability.

Areas:  The initiative aims to bring together new teams of
investigators able to use common languages and scientific
concepts to attack problems with impact on more than one
discipline.  Projects include collaborations to address
problems in designing, developing and implementing
electronic and information resources for functional studies
of the nervous system; and collaborations that apply
paradigms from engineering, computer science or artificial
neural network theory to assess the functionality of
neuroscience models and circuits.

Projects may include new computational and statistical
approaches to functional visualization; explorations of
learning capabilities of biological neurons and neural
networks; development of novel database structures and
search strategies; and design of software tools that provide
neuroscientists access to multimodal information.

NSF expects these research programs to lead to novel
solutions for problems of neuroscience information storage,
visualization, integration and communication or empirically
based reverse engineering of the brain with emphasis on
generic learning capabilities.  NSF encourages research on
any organism that provides a good model system for
neuroscience.

Contact:  Carol Colby, Division of Integrative Biology and
Neuroscience, Biological Sciences Directorate, National
Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230,
(703)306-1416.  Refer to NSF announcement 96-20.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BIOCHEMISTRY AND MOLECULAR STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION (NSF)

Scope:  The National Science Foundation funds research
projects aimed at understanding the structure and function
of biological macromolecules and the biochemical
characterization and regulation of cell metabolism and
related processes.

Deadline:  Jan. 10 and July 10.

Funds:  Fiscal 1996 appropriations are pending in Congress.
Typical awards are for three years and average about
$80,000.

Eligibility:  Higher education institutions and other
research institutions.

Areas:  Metabolic biochemistry projects should research the
characterization and regulation of biochemical pathways and
related processes by which microbes and plant and animal
cells transport, assimilate and derive energy from
substrata.

Molecular biochemistry projects should include protein,
nucleic acid, carbohydrate and lipid structure and
interactions; the mechanism and regulation of enzyme and RNA
catalysis; protein synthesis; bioenergetics and
photosynthesis; supramolecular structures; and biomolecular
materials.  Molecular biophysics projects should research
the structure, dynamics and interactions of biological
macromolecules by utilizing physical techniques in the
three-dimensional structure of macromolecules; assembly and
architecture of supramolecular structures; energy
transduction; structure and function of photosynthetic
reaction centers and mechanisms of electron transfer in
biological systems.

Contact:  For metabolic biochemistry, Robert Uffen, National
Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230,
(703)306-1443; e-mail, ruffen@nsf.gov.  For molecular
biochemistry, Brenda Flam, same address, same phone; e-mail,
bflam@nsf.gov.  For molecular biophysics, H. Stewart
Hendrickson, same address, same phone; e-mail,
hhendric@nsf.gov; or Kamal Shukla, same address, (703)306-
1444; e-mail, kshukla@nsf.gov.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BRIEF AIDS INTERVENTIONS (NIMH)

Scope:  The National Institute of Mental Health will fund
research on brief prevention interventions for use by health
clinics and community organizations to prevent the spread of
HIV.

Deadline:  May 1, Sept. 1 and Jan. 1.

Funds:  There is no specific setaside.

Eligibility:  Foreign and domestic public and private for-
profit and nonprofit institutions.

Areas:  NIMH seeks theoretically grounded research
applications focusing on developing models of brief HIV
prevention programs.  The agency leaves it to investigators
to define "brief interventions" to encourage developing and
testing a range of short-term interventions that can be used
in traditional health and alternative non-healthcare
settings.  Special issues investigators must address include
connecting with hard-to-reach populations that may not seek
HIV prevention programs to change high-risk behavior; and
developing methods and techniques to motivate people to
assess their risk for HIV and seek help in changing
behaviors.

Contact:  Willo Pequegnat, Office on AIDS, National
Institute of Mental Health, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 10-75,
Rockville, MD 20857, (301)443-6100; fax, (301)443-9719; e-
mail, wpequegn@aomh2.ssw.dhhs.gov.  Refer to PA 95-070.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH ON EPIDEMIOLOGY OF DRUG ABUSE (NIDA)

Scope:  The National Institute on Drug Abuse is encouraging
applications for international research on similarities and
variations in drug abuse behaviors, factors influencing the
initiation, progression and cessation of drug abuse and
social and health consequences of drug abuse, including HIV.

Deadline:  Feb. 1, June 1 and Oct. 1.

Funds:  There is no specific setaside.

Eligibility:  Foreign and domestic public and private for-
profit and nonprofit institutions.

Areas:  This program initiative expands and advances the
study of the interrelationship of the agent, host and
environment to include environments across and within
different countries.  NIDA is looking for projects that will
increase understanding of the role of social, cultural,
political and economic factors on drug abuse behaviors by
examining those factors in different national and regional
environments.

Contact:  Moira O'Brien, Division of Epidemiology and
Prevention Research, National Institute on Drug Abuse, 5600
Fishers Lane, Room 9A-53, Rockville, MD 20857, (301)443-
6637; e-mail, mobrien@aoada2.ssw.dhhs.gov.  Refer to PA 95-
072.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

DRUG AND ALCOHOL USE AND ABUSE IN RURAL AMERICA
(NIDA/NIAAA/USDA)

Scope:  The National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National
Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the
Agriculture Department are inviting applications to foster
research on drug and alcohol use and abuse behaviors in
rural America.

Deadline:  Feb. 1, June 1 and Oct. 1.

Funds:  There is no specific setaside.

Eligibility:  Public and private for-profit and nonprofit
institutions.

Areas:  Research should focus on drug and alcohol use and
abuse behaviors in rural America, its consequences and the
delivery of appropriate prevention and treatment services.

Areas include epidemiologic descriptions of patterns of drug
and alcohol abuse, characteristics of those who fit patterns
and of associated social, economic and environmental
factors; documentation of the health, social, legal and
economic consequences of drug and alcohol abuse;
identification of processes associated with initiating drug
and alcohol use and progression to abuse and dependence;
specification of varying use and abuse patterns by cultural,
ethnic, gender, age and occupational subgroups.

Areas also include development and testing of innovative
community-based prevention and treatment strategies;
development and testing of single-channel prevention
strategies, such as media-based and worksite approaches;
evaluation of existing prevention/intervention/treatment
programs for rural populations; assessments of the impact of
interventions and outreach strategies; research on methods
for disseminating innovative clinical practices and
management techniques; research on consumer choice; research
on integrating drug and alcohol abuse prevention approaches
with interventions for other problems, including violence
and HIV; studies on reaching preschool and elementary
students; research on the operation and impact of financing
mechanisms relating to substance abuse; ways to organize
services in rural areas; and management of care in health
systems in rural areas.

Contact:  Peter Hartsock, Division of Epidemiology and
Prevention Research, National Institute on Drug Abuse, 5600
Fishers Lane, Room 9A-53, Rockville, MD 20857, (301)443-
6720; fax, (301)443-2636; e-mail, ph45z@nih.gov.  Gayle
Boyd, Division of Clinical and Prevention Research, National
Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 6000 Executive
Blvd., Suite 505, Bethesda, MD 20892-7003, (301)443-8766;
fax, (301)443-8774; e-mail, gboyd@willco.niaaa.nih.gov.
Elizabeth Robertson, Agriculture Department, Agriculture
Research Service, Unit No. 83, Riverdale, MD 20737,
(301)734-8596; e-mail, erobertson@assrr.ars45da.gov.  Refer
to PA 95-060.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MINORITY RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT (NIMH)

Scope:  The National Institute of Mental Health is inviting
applications under a new infrastructure program to increase
the capacity of minority institutions and their faculty to
conduct rigorous mental health-relevant research.

Deadline:  Feb. 1, June 1 and Oct. 1.

Funds:  Grants typically range from $100,000 to $500,000 and
average $300,000 a year.  First-time applicants may request
support for three years, which may be renewable for five
years.

Eligibility:  Primarily but not exclusively minority
institutions.  Institutions must serve a student body
comprising 55 percent or more minority students; or have
served a student body with a 30 percent minority population
for at least three years.

Areas:  Grants are to develop and/or expand existing
capacities for conducting behavioral and neuroscience
research in all fields related to mental health.  NIMH will
provide institutional research development support to
strengthen the institutional infrastructure and enhance the
capability of individual faculty members to undertake mental
health-related research; and individual investigator
research support for developing research scientists to
conduct small grant research activities that can lead to
successful applications for funding under regular research
grant mechanisms.  Applications must include developmental
core activities and at least two fundable individual
research projects.

Contact:  Rodney Cocking, Office for Special Populations,
National Institute of Mental Health, Parklawn Bldg., Room
17C-14, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, (301)443-
3641; fax, (301)443-8552; e-mail, rc4@cu.nih.gov.  Refer to
PAR 95-058.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

TRANSITION FROM CARDIAC HYPERTROPHY TO OVERT HEART FAILURE
(NHLBI)

Scope:  The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute
encourages applications for basic research on the molecular
and cellular mechanisms that lead to cardiac deterioration
and heart failure.

Deadline:  Feb. 1, June 1 and Oct 1.

Funds:  There is no specific setaside.

Eligibility:  Foreign and domestic public and private for-
profit and nonprofit institutions.

Areas:  Examples of research interests include studies that
clarify the mechanisms underlying growth response of the
overloaded heart; identify the origins of peptide growth
factors and their role in ventricular wall remodeling in the
adult; explain the mechanisms that enable angiotensin-
converting enzyme inhibitors to lower peripheral vascular
resistance in heart failure patients and appear to reverse
hypertrophy of damaged myocardium; clarify the ways beta-
blockers have beneficial effects on myocardial remodeling;
investigate the pathophysiological consequences of immune
cytokines in heart failure; examine the interactions between
cytokine action, neuroendocrine activation, and growth
abnormalities in the failing heart; develop and use
genetically altered animals to explore the molecular and
physiological factors and processes responsible for heart
failure; and devise and test new therapies.

Contact:  Isabella Liang, Division of Heart and Vascular
Diseases, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, Two
Rockledge Center, Suite 9044, 6701 Rockledge Dr., Bethesda,
MD 20892-7940, (301)435-0520, ext. 2; fax, (301)480-1335; e-
mail, isabella_liang@nih.gov.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BEHAVIORAL PAIN RESEARCH (NIH)

Scope:  The National Institute of Nursing Research and 10
other National Institutes of Health funding components
encourage applications for basic and clinical studies on
pain from a variety of perspectives.

Deadline:  Feb. 1., June 1 and Oct. 1.

Funds:  There is no specific setaside.

Eligibility:  Foreign and domestic public and private for-
profit and nonprofit institutions.

Areas:  The focus is on research at all levels, including
the gene, molecule, cell and organ, with the goal of
developing biobehavioral interventions to manage or prevent
pain.  Research topics include individual differences in
pain response that may be due to factors such as genetic
differences, endocrine activity, neural activity, immune
function, psychological state, disability, age, gender and
cultural background.  Research is also needed in areas such
as the neuroanatomical pathways and neurophysiological
mechanisms in pain.

Contact:  Mary Lucas Leveck, National Institute of Nursing
Research, Natcher Bldg., Room 3AN-12, Bethesda, MD 20892-
6300, (301)594-5963; e-mail, mleveck@ep.ninr.nih.gov.  Refer
to PA 95-056.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

STATE COURTS GRANTS (SJI)

Scope:  The State Justice Institute is inviting proposals
for state court-related improvement projects under final
fiscal 1996 grant program guidelines.  (Dec. 14 Federal
Register)

Deadline:  Feb. 14 for full proposals.  SJI is not seeking
concept papers this year.

Funds:  SJI estimates it will have $6 million to $9 million,
but its fiscal 1996 appropriation still is pending in
Congress.  SJI awards several types of grants, including
research and demonstration grants of up to $200,000 each.

Eligibility:  State and local courts, nonprofit
organizations and higher education institutions.

Areas:  Interests include projects to collect and analyze
information on the admissibility and quality of expert
testimony on the experiences of battered women; develop
training to help battered women and their advocates to use
expert testimony on battered women's experiences; research
state judicial decisions relating to child custody
litigation; develop training to improve handling of child
custody cases; and develop training dealing with criminal
and civil aspects of interstate and international parental
child abduction.

Contact:  David Tevelin or Richard Van Duizend, State
Justice Institute, 1650 King St., Suite 600, Alexandria, VA
22314, (703)684-6100.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

NATIONAL BOATING SAFETY (DOT)

Scope:  The Coast Guard is seeking applications to promote
boating safety at the national level.  (Dec. 28 Federal
Register)

Deadline:  March 18.

Funds:  $1.5 million for multiple awards.  Fiscal 1995
awards ranged from $15,000 to $304,000.

Eligibility:  National nongovernment nonprofit public
service organiztions devoted to promoting national boating
safety.

Areas:  Areas of particular interest include development and
implementation of a national annual safe boating campaign
that targets boater market segments and specific
recreational boating safety topics; development and
implementation of a national recreational boating safety
outreach and awareness conference for volunteers, state and
local boating safety program organization leaders and
industry specialists to be held in the spring of 1997
concurrent with a major recreational boating saftey aquatic
symposium; dissemination of a market multi-use waterway
guide to aid development of comprehensive boating management
plans; implementation of a second phase of a recreational
boating safety measures of effectiveness project; design and
development of a recreational boating accident healthcare
cost model; planning of public workshops addressing
development of boat construction and safety standards and
reporting of defects by manufacturers and others.

Other areas are development of instructional materials and
training courses for boating accident investigators;
analysis and compilation of research on operating
efficiency, maneuverability characteristics and protection
factors of propellers, propeller guards and pump jets;
implementation of a program to encourage public involvement
in developing voluntary boating standards; and initiation of
state/federal/boating organization cooperative partnership
efforts to foster boating safety.

Contact:  Betty Alley, Office of Navigation Safety and
Waterway Services, U.S. Coast Guard (G-NAB-5/Room 1202),
2100 Second St. SW, Washington, DC 20593-0001, (202)267-
0954.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SMALL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:  NEW YORK STATE (HUD)

Scope:  The Housing and Urban Development Department is
inviting proposals for small community development projects
that focus on creating or expanding jobs, meet housing needs
or addressing local public facilities requirments, including
health needs.
(Dec. 28 Federal Register)

Deadline:  March 13.

Funds:  $50 million for comprehensive multi-year projects
for up to $5 million and three years; and $600,000 for
single-purpose grants.  Previous recipients of two- or
three-year commitments at lower levels may submit new multi-
year applications and "trade-up" to the higher three-year
amount.

Eligibility:  Units of general local government in New York
state, excluding metropolitan cities, urban counties, units
of government participating in urban counties or
metropolitan cities and certain American Indian tribes.

Areas:  Funded activities must meet a national objective,
for example, meeting imminent threats to community health
and safety.  Comprehensive grants should fund projects that
address a substantial portion of the identified community
development needs within a defined area or areas; involve
two or more related and coordinated activities; and have a
beneficial impact within a reasonable time period.  Single-
purpose grants are designed to address and resolve a
specific community development need.

Contact:  Stephen Rhodeside, State and Small Cities Div.,
Office of Community Planning and Development, Housing and
Urban Development Department, Room 7184, 451 Seventh St. SW,
Washington, DC 20410, (202)708-1322.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

GRANTS CALENDAR

MONTH/GRANT PROGRAM/AGENCY          IN HGCW         CONTACT
FEBRUARY 1
Olfactory Neurogenesis (NIDCD/NIA)          09/25/95
(301)402-3464
Prescription Drug Use, Abuse and Diversion (NIDA/NIMH)
08/28/95     (301)443-0107
Research in Reproduction (NICHD)          11/20/95
(301)496-6515
Research Infrastructure in Minority Institutions (NCRR/ORMH)
10/23/95     (301)435-0760
Research on Atherosclerosis (NHLBI)          08/28/95
(301)435-0550
Research on U.S. Immigration (NICHD)          12/04/95
(301)496-1174
Research on Violence and Trauma (NIMH)          10/16/95
(301)443-3728
School-Based Prevention Research (NIDA)          08/28/95
(301)443-1514
FEBRUARY 6
Healthcare Financing Research (HCFA)          11/20/95
(410)786-6643
Enhanced Research Instrumentation (DoE)          12/11/95
FEBRUARY 8
Markers of Uterine Receptivity for Blastocyst Implantation
(NICHD)          09/25/95     (301)496-6515




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:  THE FEDERAL REGISTER

The Federal Register -- the federal government's 60-year-old
regulatory affairs reporter -- remains a key grantseeking
tool, even in the electronic age.

The Register last month announced free access to its own
searchable electronic version.

And despite increased use of the Internet by agencies to
advertise funding opportunities directly, the Register is
the forum of choice for certain health-related funders.

In addition to running grant notices, the Register also
updates readers daily on critical rules, regulations and
actions that shape grant competitions.

By following official developments, grantseekers can stay on
top of changes that could affect their eligibility under a
grant program or effect new procedures and requirements.

In its electronic form, readers can have a custom-tailored
Register.  Instead of slogging through pages of extraneous
text, readers can go straight to notices from agencies of
interest.


"It's what they've always asked for," says Richard
Claypoole, director of the Federal Register.

And the electronic version has caught on, he says.  Even
before the Register went public,  subscribers logged 558,369
document retrievals from 103,722 searches from November to
December.

In whatever form, grantseekers can use the Federal Register
to:

*  Mine grant nuggets:  The Health Resources and Services
Administration, Centers for Disease Control and Energy
Department regularly use the Federal Register to announce
grant competitions.

Browsers will find health-related Education Department
notices and health and life science notices from the
Agriculture Department and the Environmental Protection
Agency.

*  Check on winners:  A few agencies, such as the Housing
and Urban Development Department, use the Federal Register
to announce recent awards.  Announcements are occasional,
but they can provide insights about program constituents and
reveal subgrant and subcontracting possibilities.

*  Respond to proposed program rules and funding priorities:
Laws creating grant programs often require agencies to
publish regulations before getting down to grantmaking.
Grantseekers can influence program direction by commenting
on the proposals appearing in the Federal Register.

*  Keep up with grant-related policies:  The Register
provides the full text on government-wide policies affecting
grants and contracts, such as Office of Management and
Budget circulars related to university research costs.

*In fact, revisions to OMB Circular A-21, which deals with
university costs, could hit the Register late this month.

*  Learn about meetings:  Agencies publish announcements for
meetings, ranging from preapplication workshops and advisory
group sessions to policy-setting forums, including meetings
on grantseekers' home turf.  Notices specify when and where
meetings will be held and which parts will be open to the
public.

But the Federal Register also has its drawbacks -- for hard
copy and electronic users.  Agencies used to soliciting
grant applications via the Register sometimes bypass the
publication these days, finding it faster and easier to go
with electronic announcements.

For example, EPA's 1996 grant competition, announced on the
Internet last month, has yet to make it into the Register.
Unless their announcements have regulatory impact, says
Claypoole, agencies are not required to publish application
notices in the Register.

And whether users are hard copy or on-screen readers, they
routinely must slog through pages of often confusing
legalese.  To make things easier, the Federal Register
office regularly holds workshops on how to use the system.
The 1996 schedule includes workshops in and out of
Washington.

Other efforts to make life easier include a new column on
regulations taking effect that day a daily reminder of
impending closing dates for comments on proposed rules. --
Pam Moore

Contact:  The paper Federal Register is $375 a year from the
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing
Office, Washington, DC, (202)783-3238.

Logging Into The Federal Register

GPO Access, an online service of the Government Printing
Office, provides searchable versions of the Federal Register
through the Internet.  Tap into this resource for free via:

*  Telnet to swais.access.gpo.gov., login as guest;

*  The World Wide Web at
http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_dics/aces/aaces001; or

*  The World Wide Web at
http://thorplus.lib.purdue.edu/gpo/.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS WEEKLY via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

AGRICULTURE SETS RULES FOR GRANT PROGRAMS

The Agriculture Department last month caught up on year-end
housekeeping, issuing final rules for its $100 million
National Competitive Research Grants program, which includes
health-related grants categories.

The rules add nothing new but finally codify for
grantseekers evolving administrative procedures that govern
grant competitions.  Affected programs include:

*  National Competitive Research Initiative Grants Program.
In a Dec. 8 Federal Register notice, USDA issued final rules
specifically defining the types of research funded under the
program and explaining award mechanisms.


The rules are effective immediately and should be consulted
for the fiscal 1996 competition, currently underway.

*  Higher Education Challenge Grants.  A Dec. 19 Federal
Register notice proposed rules for the program, which closed
its outlining matching grants requirements and underscoring
program focus on strengthening institutional capacities for
teaching food and agricultural sciences.

Grants -- $4 million in fiscal 1996 -- to four-year colleges
and universities fund projects to enhance curriculum,
faculty, scientific instrumentation, instruction and student
recruitment.  Proposed rules define eligibility, establish
the requirement for a match without setting the amount and
describe eligible activities.  Comments on proposed rules
are due Jan. 18.

*  1890 Capacity Building Grants.  A Dec. 20 Federal
Register notice proposed rules for soliciting, submitting
and evaluating applications for teaching project grants and
research grants to 16 historically black 1890 land-grant
institutions and Tuskegee University.  Comments on proposed
rules are due Jan. 19.

Contact:  To comment on proposed rules, Jeffrey Gilmore,
Office of Higher Education Programs, Cooperative State
Research, Education and Extension Service, Agriculture
Department, Ag Box 2251, Washington, DC 20250-2251,
(202)720-1973; fax, (202)720-2030; e-mail,
jgilmore@reeusda.gov.

For the National Competitive Research Initiative, Sally
Rockey, same address, Ag Box 2240, Washington, DC 20250-
2240, (202)401-1761.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-17</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-142</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh51.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023245 text/html 116033
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:30:11 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:21 GMT
Content-length: 115843
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh51.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet <BR>
January 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>DEMAND FOR SKIN RESURFACING KEYS TODAY'S&nbsp;SURGICAL LASER SALES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(2104 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>BAXTER'S SPIN-OFF GAMBIT: A 1993 IDEA WHOSE TIME&nbsp;HAS COME</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1129 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>LEAVES FALL, FUR FLIES AT BAXTER IN NOVEMBER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(198 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>MOST VENDORS BULLISH, UNDAUNTED BY LATEST GPO&nbsp;MEGA-MERGER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(562 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>=============</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>APPLIED VASCULAR GAINS FDA NOD FOR CORONARY&nbsp;STENT TRIALS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(166 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>BAXTER ACQUIRES PSICOR, A PERFUSIONIST PROVIDER,&nbsp;FOR $80 MILLION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(115 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>SMITH & NEPHEW RICHARDS TO OFFER DATABASE&nbsp;PROGRAM TO ORTHOPODS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(111 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>PICKER, AT&T CAPITAL AGREE TO EQUIPMENT&nbsp;FINANCING PACT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(133 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>COMDISCO SURVEY: IMAGING SALES SUFFER AGAIN IN&nbsp;1995</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(311 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>SMITH & NEPHEW TAKES BLUE PENCIL TO&nbsp;BEWILDERING BUSINESS UNIT NAME LINEUP</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(187 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>ETHICON ENDO ACQUIRES ULTRASONIC INSTRUMENT&nbsp;MANUFACTURER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(160 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>IMPROVED DISEASE MANAGEMENT THE GOAL OF&nbsp;DORNIER/ACOUSTIC IMAGING COMBO</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(140 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>STERIS-AMSCO MERGER BRINGS TOGETHER&nbsp;CENTRALIZED AND DECENTRALIZED PROCESSORS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(223 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>Standard Textile signed a new, five-year, sole-source agreement</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(103 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>Isolyser Co., Norcross, Ga., reached agreement with two group</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(165 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>Midmark Corp., Versailles, Ohio, was chosen to supply medical</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(73 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>Enterprise Systems, Inc. (ESI), Wheeling, Ill., signed an agreement</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(117 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>McKesson Drug Co.'s San Francisco-based home health care</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(56 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><LI>Becton Dickinson Vascular Access, Sandy, Utah, and VHA Inc.,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(137 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><LI>Bard Urological, Covington, Ga., signed a five-year contract</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(94 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><LI>Bracco Diagnostics, Princeton, N.J., signed a renewal of its</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(38 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>BOEHRINGER MANNHEIM DIAGNOSTICS' FAST ASSAY&nbsp;DIAGNOSES HEART ATTACKS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(530 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><A HREF = "#23"><LI>IMPLANTABLE PUMP MARKS STRATO/INFUSAID'S RE-&nbsp;ENTRY INTO PAIN MANAGEMENT MARKET</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(438 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>I-FLOW PROMOTES SIMPLE, LOW COST BAND-IT SYRINGE&nbsp;DELIVERY SYSTEM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(439 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>OUTCOMES STUDIES BECOMING A "MUST" FOR&nbsp;SUCCESSFUL DEVICE SALES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(425 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>EXCITEMENT AND FLASH SEEMED MISSING FROM 1995&nbsp;RSNA SHOW</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(989 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><LI>Conmed Corp., Utica, N.Y., will acquire New Dimensions in</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(128 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><LI>Mallinckrodt Medical, Inc., St. Louis, opened nuclear medicine</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(45 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><LI>United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., reported that a</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(122 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><LI>Innovative Technologies Group, Cheshire, England, and</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(63 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><LI>Picker International, Cleveland, relocated its Nuclear Medicine</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(45 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><LI>Invacare Corp., Elyria, Ohio, was named by Financial World</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(61 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><LI>EDAP Technomed International, a French manufacturer, learned that</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(74 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><LI>SangStat Medical Corp., Menlo Park, Calif., has filed a 510(k) with</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(73 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><LI>UroMed Corp., Needham, Mass., signed a five-year multi-national</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(111 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><LI>The American Occupational Therapy Assn. (AOTA) in November</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(32 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#37"><LI> Vollrath Group, Inc., Memphis, Tenn., says it is nearing</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(90 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#38"><LI>Oliver Products Co., Grand Rapids, Mich., a supplier of roll stock</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(92 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#39"><LI>Dade International, Deerfield, Ill., and Intracel Corp., Cambridge,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(75 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#40"><LI>Bracco Diagnostics Inc. has relocated its corporate headquarters to</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(28 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#41"><LI>3M, St. Paul, Minn., connected the first commercial 3M Dry View</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(98 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#42"><LI>Healthcare Materials Services (HMS), a pharmacy and materials</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(65 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#43"><LI>Cantel Industries, Inc., Clifton, N.J., will acquire MediVators,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(51 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#44"><LI>Heraeus Surgical, Inc., Milpitas, Calif., and Minneapolis-based</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(49 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#45"><LI>United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., introduced a</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(87 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#46"><LI>Image Diagnostic Systems, Inc., Sunrise, Fla., took an unusual tact</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(42 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#47"><LI>WORTH READING . . .</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(216 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#48"><A HREF = "#48"><LI>OUTCOMES ANALYSIS CAN WIN OVER TOUGH&nbsp;AUDIENCES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(957 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#49"><A HREF = "#49"><LI>OWENS, HENRY SCHEIN MARKETING TANDEM CREATES&nbsp;"VIRTUAL ORGANIZATION"</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(464 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#50"><A HREF = "#50"><LI>BAXTER'S NEW SUPPLY CHAIN PLAN WORRIES SOME&nbsp;VENDORS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(250 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#51"><LI>KENTUCKY DISTRIBUTORS TO MERGE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(210 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#52"><LI>SHOW BIZ . . .</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(257 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#53"><LI>TRADING PLACES . . .</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(410 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#54"><A HREF = "#54"><A HREF = "#54"><LI>PRODUCER PRICE INDEX INCHES 0.1% HIGHER IN&nbsp;NOVEMBER; MEDICAL CARE COMMODITIES INCREASE BY&nbsp;0.3%</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(195 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#55"><A HREF = "#55"><LI>PURCHASING MANAGERS: MANUFACTURING SLOWS&nbsp;FOR FOURTH STRAIGHT MONTH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(305 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#56"><LI>Wright Medical Technology, Inc.: Richard D. Nikolaev was elected</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(156 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#57"><LI>Baxter International: William B. Graham retired as senior chairman</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(152 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#58"><LI>Medline Industries, Inc.: Susan Hall was named president of the</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(139 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#59"><LI>HIDA: Cara C. Bachenheimer, director of government relations for</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(40 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#60"><LI>Behring Diagnostics: Rudi Steinmann was appointed head of</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(45 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#61"><LI>Rusch International: Frank Sodha was promoted to president of this</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(42 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#62"><LI>B&G Equipment Co.: John Jefferson Dykstra was named director</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(50 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#63"><LI>Varian Associates, Inc.: David A. Berkowitz was named national</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(71 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#64"><LI>Imagyn Medical, Inc.: Chris Bova joined this Laguna Niguel,</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(42 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#65"><LI>Owens & Minor, Inc.: Larry Sapp was promoted to Denver division</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(28 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

DEMAND FOR SKIN RESURFACING KEYS TODAY'S
SURGICAL LASER SALES

By Curt Werner
For those companies canny enough to capitalize on the trend, falling
reimbursements and the search for private pay patients have proven
to be the salvation for manufacturers in the surgical laser segment.
Baby Boomers closing in on their fifties have spawned the latest
rage--laser skin resurfacing--and turned it into a mini-bonanza for
smart, technologically adept vendors. What's more, physicians in
several specialties can perform the procedures, including
dermatologists, plastic surgeons, facial plastic surgeons and
ophthalmologists, which broadens the universe of purchasers for the
machines and moves them from the hospital to the physician's
office.

But for vendors that have fallen behind in turning their products into
multi-use tools, the past few years have been a trying time.

Like presidential polls, the surgical laser market is subject to fast-
changing national mood swings. Just two years ago, lasers that
were used to correct severe snoring problems were the hot tickets.
But that market has faded.

The key to success in sales of today's sophisticated, expensive
lasers is finding a range of uses for them. Said one capital
equipment contracting executive for a major group purchasing
organization, "When you spend about $100,000 for a laser, you
want to make sure it doesn't end up sitting around gathering dust in
a corner somewhere."

Credit manufacturers and the medical community for finding scores
of applications for lasers. Medical miracles like excising cancerous
tissue and cells, coronary angioplasty, and a variety of laparoscopic
surgeries are part of the laser equation. But so is removing
somewhat more benign unwanted things like warts and wrinkles. In
fact, it is precisely that "aesthetics market" that drives the surgical
laser segment today.

And what powers that aesthetics market is the public itself.
Providers and surgical laser manufacturers have literally teamed up
in several cases to promote laser skin resurfacing. They have
capitalized on the yen for reversing the aging process by spreading
the word about the possibilities of surgical lasers through countless
newspaper and consumer magazine articles, network news shows
and even infomercials.

Financially speaking, probably the best part of this scenario for
physicians and vendors alike is the fact that men and women who go
to their doctors for laser skin resurfacing are that most precious of
commodities these managed care days: private pay patients. Few
insurers will pay for elective skin resurfacing procedures. "Doctors
are looking for private pay patients, and aesthetics fits right in," says
Karen Amburgey, vice president of marketing for Sharplan Lasers,
Inc., a manufacturer that is based in Allendale, N.J., listed on the
American Stock Exchange, but owned by an Israeli corporation,
Laser Industries, Ltd., Tel Aviv.

For Sharplan and its competitors, like Coherent, Inc., Palo Alto,
Calif., Heraeus Surgical, Milpitas, Calif., and the dozens of upstart
companies with revenues below the half million dollar mark, the
stakes are big and the rewards may be great. According to a June
1995 report published by Frost & Sullivan, Mountain View, Calif.,
the worldwide surgical laser market topped $203 million in 1994.
Factoring in a growth rate of 12.8% in 1995 and 14.1% to 15.4%
through 1998, the market will swell to $429 million globally by the
year 2000. The U.S. dominates in laser revenues, holding more
than 55% of the market, the report said.

Laser's "Swiss Army Knife"

Surgical solid-state lasers and surgical gas lasers will continue to
garner the largest share of the dollars by far. Some relatively new
laser technology is beginning to have an impact on the market,
particularly on the solid-state side. Leading that technology race are
holmium:yttrium aluminum garnet (or Ho:YAG) and
neodymium:YAG (Nd:YAG) lasers. Ruby lasers and potassium
titanyl phosphate (KTP) devices are also in the solid-state market.

The Ho:YAG laser is rising in importance in the orthopedics market.
This type, known as the "Swiss Army Knife" of lasers, has been in
use for about six years, mostly in arthroscopy and diskectomy
(though high-powered Ho:YAG devices have been on the scene for
less than three years). Reflecting the trend for multi-use
applications, Ho:YAG lasers, which cost between $40,000 and
$150,000 depending on power capabilities, are being utilized in
general surgery, urology, neurosurgery, lithotripsy, angioplasty and
dentistry. Because of their ability to be used in blood and saline
environments, Ho:YAGs are also being wheeled into the surgical
suite for gynecological procedures.

A March 1995 report from ECRI, Plymouth Meeting, Pa., the
respected technological assessment company, cautioned hospital
laser purchasers about the high price tag, but added, "The ability of
a laser to be used in several specialties may help justify its
acquisition." ECRI recommended that hospitals that plan to acquire
only one laser bring in the CO2 laser (for its precise cutting ability
and low cost) or the Ho:YAG/Nd:YAG combination laser, which
can be used for many types of procedures. Combination lasers, like
those produced by Coherent, Inc., sell for approximately $150,000.
At the same time, ECRI said that the Ho:YAG laser is "poised for
rapid and widespread use."

Here's how a few of the players in the laser market are handling the
sales, marketing and the major trends in the industry today:

Sharplan's Strength In Snoring And Aesthetics

Although the laparoscopy market has been a "mainstay market" for
Sharplan since the mid-1970s, more recently the snoring and
aesthetics markets have been the keys to its success. Through the
first nine months of 1995, the company had $36.5 million in sales,
up 26% from the same period in 1994. Sales of more than $50
million (up 36%) are expected for 1995. According to Sharplan's
Amburgey, her company splits the aesthetics market evenly with
Coherent (45% each), with the remainder going to smaller, low-end
companies.

The Silk Touch(TM) laser line is Sharplan's biggest seller. Like
other vendors' product lines, several versions are available.
Products range from a compact 40-watt model to a high-powered
100-watt device, varying in price from $70,000 to $130,000. The
Silk Touch is not intended to be limited to hospital use, and its
pricing is aimed at the broader physician's office market. In its
presentation to physicians, Sharplan touts its laser as the "Gold
Standard" for aesthetic CO2 laser surgery.

According to Amburgey, selling to the office market is relatively
simple since the number of decision-makers is limited and physician
autonomy is strong. But even office-based physicians want
flexibility. For example, an ear, nose and throat doctor in a group
practice setting may also work with physicians who perform skin
resurfacing with the same machine. But in the hospital market, she
told HIT, managed care has made providers very price sensitive.
And while Sharplan markets its product to hospitals, hospitals are
marketing the product to physicians. "Hospitals use lasers to entice
physicians to perform their procedures in the hospital rather than in
their offices in order to bring revenue into the hospital," Amburgey
said.

Sharplan uses medical journal advertising only as a supplement to
build name recognition, as it is doing in the ophthalmic market.
Instead, it places heavy emphasis on courses. This is where the
company can educate doctors about the benefits of the various
procedures, allow them to mingle with their peers, then make their
buying decisions. Most physicians come to the courses already
decided, Amburgey said. Courses sponsored by Sharplan and
others are everywhere, just as they were with the snoring
phenomenon.

Sharplan makes sure that the public is exposed to hot, new laser
procedures such as work on leg veins, hair removal and
photorefractive keratectomy (the subject of next month's Health
Industry Today Market Memo). This is where the company believes
the payoff is. To stimulate public interest, and to help its physician
customers sell their services, Sharplan provides a slick package of
marketing aids that includes videos, brochures, slides and counter
cards complete with striking "before and after" shots. Amburgey
and her staff have been successful in keeping laser skin resurfacing
in the public eye with articles placed in publications like Self
(August 1995), Allure (June 1995) and Vogue (September 1995).

The strategy seems to be working. "Skin resurfacing is peaking now
but should go on for another six to 12 months before winding
down," Amburgey said. She estimates that about 150,000 patients
have already been treated with Sharplan lasers, which are used by
about 750 physicians in the U.S.

Heraeus Surgical

LaserSonics(R) is Heraeus' laser division, and it has been in
operation for more than 20 years. Privately held Heraeus, which
was founded in 1851 and is headquartered in Germany, also has an
integrated operating room division that offers products such as
surgical lighting systems, surgical tables and video systems. An
arrangement with Minneapolis-based CVAC Corp. gives it access to
a smoke evacuation system as well, and all of the above can be sold
with LaserSonics' products. The laser lines include a series of CO2
and Nd:YAG lasers, along with accessories such as hand pieces and
micro-manipulators.

LaserSonics' CO2 lasers, introduced in late 1994, are used by
gynecologists, ENT physicians, and more recently, in dermatology
and plastic surgery away from the hospital setting. The company's
Nd:YAG lasers are used by urologists, gastroenterologists, thoracic
surgeons and ENT docs.

The Paragon(TM) CO2 laser was released in January 1995 and
launched in April 1995, and since then, sales have "exceeded
expectations," a company spokesperson said. The Paragon line is
popular for laser skin resurfacing and is used in both private practice
and hospital settings.

In January 1995, Heraeus introduced the Hercules 5100 ("the
smallest, 100 watt Nd:YAG laser ever developed" and the "first
Nd:YAG laser to combine high power in a convenient and portable
design"). The device is on a 15"x20" base that allows it to fit into
large and small surgical suites, plus it has standard power
requirements to sidestep special electrical connections. It's also "five
times faster than any other Nd:YAG laser on the market," the
company says, which allows surgeons to work faster and still
provide effective coagulation and minimal tissue trauma during
surgery.

Heraeus has a 35-member direct sales force, with some devoted to
laser sales, some to the O.R. equipment, plus a few distributors to
cover sales in outlying areas. They also have "clinical instructors"
on the payroll--nurses that handle inservice and add credibility to
laser sales. Heraeus also has a 20-member field service department
that supports both O.R. and laser sales, something of an oddity
among laser vendors.

For Heraeus, the titles of purchasing decision makers have not
changed much over the past few years. It's still a group decision due
to the high cost involved, and the group includes purchasing staff,
O.R. supervisors/managers, biomedical and administration. "The
docs still drive the decision by their product preferences," said
Doreen Smillie, marketing communications manager for Heraeus.
"We start with the physicians, and they will drive it for you, but you
need buy-in from the others."

As it does for its competitors, multi-use sells. Says Smillie, "It's
easier to get an approval when two or three departments can use one
machine. That's where our strength is, along with merging our O.R.
and laser equipment."

Increasing the number of national accounts tops the Heraeus agenda
for 1996. "As a company goal, we're trying to add more national
accounts in 1996," said Smillie. Heraeus has an agreement with St.
Louis-based AmeriNet. Craig Lingel, the recently promoted vice
president of sales, handles national accounts.

Heraeus has positioned its laser prices below market leader
Coherent. "We're $20,000 to $30,000 cheaper than Coherent,"
Smillie said. The company's 1996 prices: 50-watt $65,000; 70-watt
$73,000; 100-watt $89,000. Heraeus' 70- and 100-watt models are
used predominantly in hospitals. The 50-watt models are intended
for private practice settings.

To promote its laser products, Heraeus presents many workshops in
specialty settings such as gynecology, urology and ENT.
Workshops are presented along with CME credits in an unbiased
institution.

Heraeus also relies heavily on trade shows. Among them are the
Assn. of Operating Room Nurses, American Academy of
Dermatology, American Society for Laser Medicine and Surgery,
American College of Gynecology, American Academy of
Gynecological Laparoscopy and the American Urology Assn.
Heraeus abandoned the American College of Surgeons in 1993.
"We didn't get a lot out of it," Smillie told HIT.

Heraeus doesn't place many journal ads "because decision makers
vary and it's hard to find publications that hit both of our product
lines." The only ad that did appear in 1995 was found in Surgical
Products magazine, and there are no plans for more or less than that
in 1996. Direct mail efforts are made in conjunction with trade
shows.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

BAXTER'S SPIN-OFF GAMBIT: A 1993 IDEA WHOSE TIME
HAS COME

By Curt Werner
Jim Tobin and Tony White shared an enjoyable laugh a few days
after their Thanksgiving dinners when Baxter International
announced plans to spin off its hospital supply business. The two
former top-level Baxter executives, chief architects of exactly the
same spin-off plan that the company stubbornly repudiated two
years ago, left Deerfield in December 1993 in the wake of a power
struggle with chairman and CEO Vernon R. Loucks over the plan.
Now, Tobin told Health Industry Today in an exclusive interview
that he feels "vindicated" over the outcome. "I can't find anything
that is different than what we did two years ago," he said. "It was a
good plan then, and they wasted two years in not implementing it."
Tobin and White's distribution spin-off plan has been on the shelf
since November 1993.

During those two years, Baxter has floundered a bit, and its market
share in the medical-surgical distribution business has been flat, a
particularly disheartening development for Baxter shareholders,
since the company's main competitor, Owens & Minor, Inc.,
Richmond, Va., has fought off some doldrums of its own and
jumped its share to more than 21% in 1994 from about 8% in 1990.

Today, Tobin serves as president and chief operating officer of
Biogen Inc., a Cambridge, Mass.-based biotech concern, while
White is an executive with Perkins-Elmer Corp., Norwalk, Conn.
And unlike his former employer, Tobin's company is doing just
fine. Biogen just received approval from an FDA advisory
committee for Avonex, a naturally occurring beta interferon drug
that is used to slow the progression of multiple sclerosis. Biogen
stock shot up about $11 in one mid-December week to about $64.
Baxter's stock price languished in the low $20 range for months,
before perking up of late to the low $40s as analysts hailed the
ultimate implementation of Tobin's bold strategy.

Many say that Baxter's gambit has returned the company to its 1985
American Hospital Supply pre-merger look. That was the year the
two big corporations merged in a $3.8 billion blockbuster deal.
Baxter had 1994 sales of approximately $9.32 billion. The spin-off
would split the company into two companies with sales of about $5
billion each.

"Milking HS Into Mediocrity"

Now that the spin-off has been set into motion and the genie is out
of the bottle, Tobin believes that the new Baxter Hospital Supply
(HS), by whatever name it chooses, must look at getting bigger.
"HS business, when the debt is split, is around book value. It
makes sense [for an investment firm] to buy it from Baxter, install
cost-oriented management, double the profits and take it public for
big bucks." He feels that investors could "use it, fix it and make it
the core of building a powerful medical supply company.

"Hospital Supply is a good, strong business even though margins
were thin two years ago and they're thin now (Editor's note:
Published estimates are that Baxter's hospital supplies and
management side has a 5% to 6% profit margin, while the Baxter
International technology side comes in at between 14% and 15%.).
But the business is worse off than it was two years ago. The board
looked at the performance over the past two years and decided to
head back to Plan A.

"The structures [of Baxter's manufacturing and distribution
divisions] are vastly different and need to be run differently. As long
as the numbers are aggregated, you'll always under-invest in one
side or another. And running a business for cash is like going out of
business slowly. They've been milking the HS business into
mediocrity."

Unlocking Baxter Distribution Books

Everyone has a theory about Baxter's big move, and the somewhat
unexpected consensus from the vendor community seems to be that
Baxter's plan is good for the industry as a whole. Tom Sherry, vice
president of sales and marketing for Owens & Minor, was
practically elated over the news. "It's great for Owens, and it's great
for distribution. Now we will have an industry comparison. We'll
be able to show the cost of a sale, and we'll be able to show that
we're the low-cost provider." Sherry predicts Baxter will intensify
its marketing efforts on behalf of its stockless/just-in-time ValueLink
Division and its Procedure Based Delivery System (advanced
custom packs).

Ted Almon, who heads another Baxter distribution competitor,
Providence, R.I.-based Claflin Co., called the new Baxter "a
souped-up American Hospital Supply" that could become a better
competitor in the distribution market. He envisions a stronger
relationship between Baxter and branded manufacturers in the wake
of the spin-off. However, Almon cautioned that not all the pieces
will necessarily fall neatly into place for the new Baxter. "If growing
pains and start-up problems and a lack of strategic direction surface,
the result could prove to be an advantage for Baxter's competition."

Stronger words came from Pete DeBusk, president of DeRoyal
Industries, Inc., Powell, Tenn., who is convinced that shareholder
pressure drove Baxter's decision. "It takes the old Baxter and its
blood substitute and greatly appreciates the value of its stock," he
told HIT. "Vernon Loucks is running the show, and he wants to
enhance the company's stock value, realign the company and make
the industry happy. He can't lose.

"It's the first wise thing he [Loucks] has done in a long while."

DeBusk believes that Baxter must "realign the distribution business
and run it mean and lean because it won't have the manufacturing
side to carry it. Distribution has to stand on its own and fight.
Baxter will take on a whole new look and realize it must look at the
margins it must have in order to make it in today's market. It's gone
from a consumer side to a supplier side economy because the
services required of customers today are expensive and distributors
are finding out they've under-priced their product tremendously."

As soon as news of Baxter's split hit the national media, the rumor
mill began to churn out a few interesting possibilities. One was that
a number of suitors were in line for Baxter's distribution arm.
Names of heavyweight drug wholesalers surfaced, such as San
Francisco-based McKesson Corp. and Orange, Calif.-based Bergen
Brunswig Corp. The Houston-based food giant, Sysco Corp., was
another name in the mill, though Baxter's reportedly long
relationship with Sysco's arch-rival, Kraft Foods, could preclude
such a transaction.

Post-spin-off rumors have also persisted that Baxter International
was in talks aimed at acquiring the National Medical Care Inc.
kidney-dialysis business operated by W.R. Grace & Co., an
acquisition that would carry a steep price tag estimated at about $4.5
billion. Three weeks after those rumors arose, however, little has
occurred, and observers have privately questioned Baxter's desire to
enter the provider field.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

LEAVES FALL, FUR FLIES AT BAXTER IN NOVEMBER

As usual, it was another extremely hectic month of November at
Baxter International. The saga opens in November 1985 when
Baxter merged with American Hospital Supply. Then, the timeline
skips to November 1992, when Baxter announced plans for its ill-
fated $376 million acquisition of the medical-surgical distributor
Stuart Medical, Inc., Greensburg, Pa., a controversial deal that was
aborted just a few short months later in February 1993. Also in
November 1992, Baxter spun off its Northbrook, Ill.-based
Caremark International Inc. unit, which it purchased for $586
million in 1987.

There's more. It was November 1993 when Baxter and San Diego-
based American Healthcare Systems announced the signing of a
five-year, $4 billion corporate agreement, then the largest of its kind
in the industry. In November 1994, the industry was again
surprised when Baxter was named the fourth authorized distribution
agent of Irving, Texas-based VHA Inc.

In the most recent November, of course, Baxter said it would spin
off its hospital supply operations.

Next November? Who knows? Mail (5350 So. Roslyn, Suite 400,
Englewood, CO 80111), phone (303-290-8500) or fax (303-290-
9025) reader predictions to Health Industry Today. We'll print the
best ideas next month.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

MOST VENDORS BULLISH, UNDAUNTED BY LATEST GPO
MEGA-MERGER

Medical-surgical supply vendors in general reacted positively to the
stunning news of the latest giant merger between group purchasing
organizations. In late November, Charlotte, N.C.-based SunHealth
Alliance announced plans to join with two other newly merged
buying groups--Premier Health Alliance, Westchester, Ill., and
American Healthcare Systems, San Diego--in a move that
confounded widespread rumors that had SunHealth headed toward
an alliance with Irving, Texas-based VHA Inc. At press time, the
deal was awaiting ratification by SunHealth's 152 shareholders.

The big merger creates a huge, highly compliant, far-flung health
care network that includes more than 240 owner systems that own
or operate 650 hospitals and other assorted facilities, in addition to
another 1,000 affiliate members in all 50 states representing
approximately 315,000 licensed beds. Estimates are that total annual
purchasing volume for the new network could top the $10 billion
mark. SunHealth alone chipped in about $2 billion to that total.
However, lurking in the shadows is a degree of uncertainty spurred
by rumors of member defections from the new group due to
disapproval of the merger terms or the addition of competing
hospitals to the new network.

Pete DeBusk, president of DeRoyal Industries, Inc., Powell, Tenn.,
is convinced that the formation of the super-group will help his
company. DeRoyal had contracts with SunHealth and Premier, but
not with AmHS, so the new network will increase DeBusk's
opportunities significantly. However, he is just as convinced that the
big network's buying power won't be able to reduce prices as much
as some think it can. "Prices are on the bottom," he told HIT. "We
can't operate at the margins we have now." In fact, DeBusk predicts
"tremendous" price increases for 1996. "It's bad. Rises in raw
materials prices have never been passed on, and manufacturers have
been devastated.

"The industry must sit up and take notice that there will be further
price increases, especially for distribution, and it's to our benefit to
support distributors. We shouldn't take a hostile approach to the
needs of the distribution business," he said.

Another happy customer is Jon Mills, president of Medline
Industries, Inc., Mundelein, Ill., whose company signed a two-
year, $4 million-a-year contract with SunHealth last summer. Like
DeBusk, Mills praised the new combination. He believes the move
to Premier/AmHS will give his company an opportunity to increase
its sales. Mills, also like DeBusk, feels that the new network won't
drive prices further downward. "Any GPO has great power
already," he said. "Anybody would be honored to have their
business, but most prices are as low as they can be right now."

Not everything is rosy, however. The formation of the supergroup
does leave some unanswered questions. Several observers feel that
vendors are going to have to sharpen their pencils even further than
before, and some are edgy over possible demands of the new group.
A few may even walk away from their contracts, frustrated over
sharp administrative fees, reporting requirements, contract
implementation demands and approaches to the supply contracts
themselves. Other vendors may be perplexed over their future and
wary of possible leadership clashes within the new group.

There's general agreement, however, that the rise of the new group
(by whatever name it chooses) is a daring stroke. Said Kim Bearce
of NCI, Rancho Santa Margarita, Calif., "Nothing since
Columbia/HCA is as brave and as bold." Few could argue.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

APPLIED VASCULAR GAINS FDA NOD FOR CORONARY
STENT TRIALS

Applied Vascular Engineering, Inc., Santa Rosa, Calif., will begin
clinical trials for its coronary stent delivery system following the
FDA's investigational device exemption (IDE) approval for its Micro
Stent(TM). The result is believed to be the first clinical trial to utilize
the Palmaz-Schatz stent from Johnson & Johnson Interventional
Systems, Warren, N.J., as the concurrent control. For now, the
J&J product is the only coronary stent approved for the reduction of
restenosis in the U.S.

Currently sold outside the U.S., the Micro Stent system is also
designed to prevent restenosis, the reclosing of arteries opened by
an angioplasty procedure.

The clinical trial is called SMART (Study of Micro Stent's Ability to
limit Restenosis Trial). SMART is believed to be the first device-
approval study to incorporate the use of ticlopidine, which is
emerging as the primary anticoagulation medication for stent
patients. The trial, which began in November, will involve up to 20
U.S. medical centers with patient enrollment expected to last
approximately six months.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

BAXTER ACQUIRES PSICOR, A PERFUSIONIST PROVIDER,
FOR $80 MILLION

Just days before the announcement of its controversial split, Baxter
Healthcare Corp., McGaw Park, Ill., disclosed that it had acquired
San Diego-based Psicor, a provider of cardiovascular perfusion
services to hospitals that perform open heart surgery. The
acquisition cost Baxter approximately $80 million.

The purchase is designed to bolster Baxter's ability to offer
customers a set of products and services on a capitated basis. Psicor
is said to have about 400 hospitals as its customers and reported
1994 sales of about $82 million. The deal follows Baxter's purchase
earlier this year of Seta, Inc., another company that offers
perfusionists--clinicians who operate heart-lung bypass machines
used during open heart procedures--to hospitals on a contract basis.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

SMITH & NEPHEW RICHARDS TO OFFER DATABASE
PROGRAM TO ORTHOPODS

Smith & Nephew Richards, Memphis, Tenn., has signed a five-year
agreement with Summit Medical Systems, Inc., Minneapolis, that
will provide database software products to orthopedic specialists.
Under terms of the deal, Smith & Nephew Richards will market
Summit Medical-developed proprietary orthopedic clinical outcomes
database products in the U.S. Programs related to hip, knee and
shoulder procedures will be offered, along with a health status and
patient satisfaction program. Smith & Nephew Richards makes the
programs available to physicians as a value-added service.

Summit Medical will also maintain a national database of orthopedic
outcomes information for Smith & Nephew Richards that will
enable specialists to compare their results against national
benchmarks.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

PICKER, AT&T CAPITAL AGREE TO EQUIPMENT
FINANCING PACT

Picker International, Cleveland, and AT&T Capital Corp.,
Morristown, N.J., have become equal equity partners in a joint
venture that will provide customer financing to hospitals, clinics and
other users of Picker's medical imaging systems and related
equipment. The 10-year agreement is expected to result in financing
arrangements of as much as $400 million during the first five years
alone.

Picker Financial Group has amassed net leased assets of $85 million
in the three years since it was founded. That rapid growth led the
Group to seek a partner with international capabilities.

The partnership will likely result in a wider array of true-lease and
conditional-sale financial products, as well as more customer
services during the lease term. The annual worldwide leasing market
for imaging equipment has been estimated at approximately $3
billion.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

COMDISCO SURVEY: IMAGING SALES SUFFER AGAIN IN
1995

With all modalities reporting increases in average age, the year 1995
marked a second straight sub-par year for diagnostic imaging
equipment sales, according to the fifth annual study of acquisition
trends by Comdisco, Inc., Rosemont, Ill. The survey polled more
than 3,600 hospitals. The bad news was worst for the magnetic
resonance imaging sector, where the average age of installed MRIs
rose to 5.5 years in 1995 from 3.1 years as recently as 1992. A full
70% of all MRIs are now more than three years old, compared with
just 35% in 1992.

The study found that the oldest and most pervasive technology in the
market remains radiography/fluoroscopy (R&F). The average age of
equipment in that sector has now hit 10.1 years, up from 7.9 years
in 1992. About two-thirds of current R&F systems are more than
seven years old, and one in five are more than 15 years old. The
systems are installed in 95% of all U.S. hospitals.

On the CT side, 75% of scanners are now more than three years old,
up from 64% in 1994. Almost one-third (31%) of hospitals
surveyed have cardiac catheterization labs installed, significantly
more than the 20% that had cath labs in 1993. Eighty-four percent of
nuclear medicine devices in surveyed hospitals are now more than
three years old.

Comdisco Medical Equipment Group president Kenneth A.
Halverson blames "market-driven reform" for the bad news. Part of
that reform is centered on integrated delivery networks, the
emergence of which has created redundancies in many modalities.
He added, however, that "the tide may be turning," since his
company, which provides equipment leasing and other services,
entered 1996 with a record backlog of orders. Comdisco had
another record year in reconditioned diagnostic imaging equipment
in 1995, with shipments totaling $28 million, up 17% from 1994,
when shipments jumped 68% from the previous year.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

SMITH & NEPHEW TAKES BLUE PENCIL TO
BEWILDERING BUSINESS UNIT NAME LINEUP

As part of a broader strategy calling for names of the group's
businesses to reflect the medical disciplines they serve, a
reorganization--including a name change--has been instituted by
Memphis, Tenn.-based Smith & Nephew Richards. Under the
changes, which took effect Jan. 1, the company is now known as
Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics. The new unit will be headed by the
company's current president, Larry Papasan.

There's more. Smith & Nephew Richards' medical specialties
division based in Bartlett, Tenn., will become Smith & Nephew
ENT (ear, nose and throat). James Duncan, president of the medical
specialties division, will stay on as president of Smith & Nephew
ENT.

The orthopedic accessories and continuous passive motion
rehabilitation exercise equipment product lines, currently part of the
medical specialties division, are being reassigned to Smith &
Nephew Orthopaedics and Smith & Nephew Rehabilitation
respectively. Early in 1995, the old Smith & Nephew Dyonics
became Smith & Nephew Endoscopy while Smith & Nephew
Roylan became Smith & Nephew Rehabilitation. Smith & Nephew
Richards will remain a principal brand name for both Smith &
Nephew Orthopaedics and Smith & Nephew ENT products.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

ETHICON ENDO ACQUIRES ULTRASONIC INSTRUMENT
MANUFACTURER

Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., Cincinnati, is the only company to
offer a full line of both videoscopic (minimally invasive surgery)
and ultrasonic surgical instruments, following its acquisition of
UltraCision, Inc., Smithfield, R.I. UltraCision is a pioneer in the
area of ultrasonic technology and the developer and manufacturer of
the Harmonic Scalpel(TM), a device that uses ultrasound power to
make surgical incisions with minimal tissue damage. The
acquisition, for undisclosed terms, will boost Ethicon Endo's
product offerings in the area of videoscopic surgery.

The Harmonic Scalpel is used by surgeons in both videoscopic and
open surgical procedures including gall bladder removal,
appendectomy, repair of hiatal hernia, hysterectomy and bladder
neck suspension. The scalpel is connected to a generator that
converts electrical energy to mechanical energy, causing its blade to
vibrate at more than 55,000 hertz to cut tissue and seal blood vessels
simultaneously. Future applications for the device include cardiac
and vascular surgery, plastic and reconstructive surgery,
dermatology and arthroscopic surgery.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

IMPROVED DISEASE MANAGEMENT THE GOAL OF
DORNIER/ACOUSTIC IMAGING COMBO

The combination of two manufacturers has created a new single-
source provider of dedicated ultrasound imaging and interventional
therapy delivery systems. The new company, known as Dornier
Medical Systems, Inc. (DMSI), was formed in November through a
combination of Acoustic Imaging Technologies Corp., Phoenix, and
Atlanta-based Dornier Medical Systems, Inc. Acoustic Imaging has
had an eight-year relationship with Dornier Medical.

The development is expected to permit the new company to
accelerate new product development, in particular what the company
calls "a new direction in disease management by integrating
diagnostic imaging and minimally invasive therapy."

DMSI will continue to offer Acoustic Imaging's diagnostic
ultrasound imaging systems to the specialty, general radiology,
mammography and obstetrical markets. The company has led
advances in urologic imaging and interventional therapy systems and
continues to provide lithotripters, lasers and urological tables to
those markets.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

STERIS-AMSCO MERGER BRINGS TOGETHER
CENTRALIZED AND DECENTRALIZED PROCESSORS

The $660 million merger of Steris Corp., Mentor, Ohio, with
Pittsburgh-based AMSCO International will capitalize on
complementary sales, operational, manufacturing, product
development and expense control abilities to reach a shifting
customer base. Despite this, the merger surprised many, even
though AMSCO had been involved in merger discussions with an
undisclosed company only a few days prior to the Dec. 18
announcement. Steris is involved in decentralized sterile processing
and surgical support systems, while AMSCO handles centralized
sterile processing and similar support systems.

The deal will merge the North American sales and service
organizations of the two concerns to provide increased account
penetration and new product introduction capabilities. A direct sales
and service force of more than 1,000 field representatives will
emerge following completion of the merger. The new company will
use those capabilities to reach all major acute care provider markets:
hospital, ambulatory and alternate site. It will also place a renewed
emphasis on national accounts, group purchasing, governmental and
other large-volume capital equipment sales, supplies and services
contract business.

According to Steris, the move was spurred by consolidation in
ownership of hospitals and alternate site providers, which is leading
to more use of centralized purchasing.

Bill Sanford will stay on as top executive of the combined Steris
Corp. Two AMSCO executives will join an expanded Steris board
of directors.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Standard Textile signed a new, five-year, sole-source agreement

Standard Textile signed a new, five-year, sole-source agreement
with Irving, Texas-based VHA Inc. for textiles and apparel. The
Cincinnati-based manufacturer has had contracts with VHA since
1986 but had shared the apparel portion of the agreement with
Angelica Uniform, St. Louis. It is anticipated that Standard Textile
will gain between $50 million and $70 million in annual sales
through the VHA pact, which has provisions that call for direct
discounts for each product segment and discounts based on
utilization levels and adoption of Standard Textile's linen
management program. According to figures released by VHA, 79%
of the group's institutions purchase Standard Textile products.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Isolyser Co., Norcross, Ga., reached agreement with two group

Isolyser Co., Norcross, Ga., reached agreement with two group
purchasing organizations for its line of OREX(R) Degradables.
Seattle-based Sisters of Providence and the University
HealthSystem Consortium (UHC), Oak Brook, Ill., signed
contracts in December. UHC has initially committed six of its
teaching hospitals to OREX evaluations. Two Sisters of Providence
sites are St. Joseph's Hospital, Burbank, Calif., and St. Peter's
Hospital, Olympia, Wash. Isolyser reports that so far 107 hospitals
in the U.S. have signed agreements to purchase OREX
Degradables. The company also says it will step up plans to offer
the products in the European market, a move spurred by what it calls
"substantial interest" on the part of several European countries,
where medical waste incineration and landfilling have become major
problems. Distribution discussions are under way, and initial
product orders have been received, Isolyser says. Finally, Isolyser
reports that its woven goods plant in Abbeville, S.C., became
operational on Dec. 4 and is producing OREX woven towels for
operating room and industrial applications.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Midmark Corp., Versailles, Ohio, was chosen to supply medical

Midmark Corp., Versailles, Ohio, was chosen to supply medical
exam equipment to Operation Blessing Flying Hospital, as part of a
partnership between Midmark and Operation Blessing that began in
December 1994. The hospital provides medical and surgical services
and disaster relief to people in developing countries in an L1011-50
jet. Midmark supplied several surgical tables, standard exam and
pediatric exam tables; 13 stretchers; physician seating; biohazardous
waste receptacles and an Ultraclave automatic sterilizer.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Enterprise Systems, Inc. (ESI), Wheeling, Ill., signed an agreement

Enterprise Systems, Inc. (ESI), Wheeling, Ill., signed an agreement
with the West Jersey Health System, a 740-bed multihospital
integrated delivery system based in Camden, N.J., that includes
four main components of ESI's integrated software. The $1.4
million deal covers materials management, surgical services,
financial management and resource management systems.

Picker International, Cleveland, will have two existing technologies,
the ViewPoint(TM) computer-assisted surgery system and the
Outlook(TM) MRI system, integrated into clinical trials of a
computer-assisted minimally invasive surgery (CAMIS) system.
The CAMIS system is the focus of a two-year, $9.35 million grant
awarded to the Ohio Aerospace Institute by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration. The ViewPoint system was developed
jointly by Picker and The Cleveland Clinic.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

McKesson Drug Co.'s San Francisco-based home health care

McKesson Drug Co.'s San Francisco-based home health care
division has signed an exclusive, renewable distribution agreement
with Momentum Medical Corp., Salt Lake City, for Momentum's
lines of home health care products. The contract includes the
SuperCane(TM) assistive device. Momentum products like the
SuperCane were on display at the McKesson booth at November's
MedTrade show in Atlanta.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Becton Dickinson Vascular Access, Sandy, Utah, and VHA Inc.,

Becton Dickinson Vascular Access, Sandy, Utah, and VHA Inc.,
Irving, Texas, have reached agreement on a new purchasing contract
that will upgrade VHA's I.V. infusion management program. The
three-year agreement, which covers I.V. start kits, catheters and
safety products, is valued at $39.1 million in 1995, with I.V.
catheters accounting for approximately $26 million of that sales
volume. Under terms of a "guaranteed savings" provision in the
agreement, Becton Dickinson offers users a net savings by
converting to Vialon Insyte Catheters, which are said to reduce
catheter usage by nearly 5%, and moving away from Teflon
catheters. B-D will help hospitals defray conversion costs by paying
3% of annual sales to an institution when it converts to I.V.
catheters through Becton Dickinson. B-D will also manufacture its
I.V. start kits for VHA's private label VHA PLUS(R) program.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Bard Urological, Covington, Ga., signed a five-year contract

Bard Urological, Covington, Ga., signed a five-year contract
extension with VHA Inc., Irving, Texas, that covers urological
specialty items in addition to the acute care products that have been
covered under Bard-VHA contracts since 1988. The agreement,
which took effect Jan. 1, is said to have the potential of $48 million
in annual sales for Bard, a figure that does not include possible sales
to AmHS/Premier facilities. The specialty items covered in the new
agreement are stents, baskets, balloons, urethrals, filiforms and
urolase. VHA says that 81% of its facilities use Bard Urological
products.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Bracco Diagnostics, Princeton, N.J., signed a renewal of its

Bracco Diagnostics, Princeton, N.J., signed a renewal of its
contrast media agreement with the New Jersey Hospital Assn. that
will be in effect through Aug. 31, 2000. The contract covers
purchases of both ionic and non-ionic contrast agents.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

BOEHRINGER MANNHEIM DIAGNOSTICS' FAST ASSAY
DIAGNOSES HEART ATTACKS

Sales of a new rapid bedside assay that helps physicians diagnose
heart attacks are under way, and its manufacturer, Boehringer
Mannheim Diagnostics, expects that its speed and ease of use will
translate into big sales for what it feels is a ground-breaking
product. Indianapolis-based Boehringer received 510(k) clearance
(after a six-month wait) to market the Cardiac T(TM) Rapid Assay in
late November.

The assay is based on the company's proprietary market cardiac
troponin T, which is found inside cardiac muscle and is released into
the blood only when cells are damaged.

The Cardiac T is a self-contained, disposable unit approximately
four inches long, less than an inch wide and a quarter-inch thick.
Drops of blood are placed in a well on the device and are quickly
drawn into a sandwich assay impregnated with two distinct types of
monoclonal antibodies, which link to cardiac troponin T in the
sample resulting in a visible color change. Results are obtained at the
bedside without the use of a central lab.

According to Lynda Koester, marketing manager for Boehringer
Mannheim Diagnostics, sales efforts are focusing on emergency
medicine physicians, cardiologists and laboratory personnel. The
product was rolled out to the cardiology market at the recent annual
meeting of the American Heart Assn. in Anaheim, Calif., starting
with a press conference and symposium. The company also
presented the Cardiac T in October for a pre-market look at the
American College of Emergency Physicians meeting, where better
than 700 leads were garnered from the approximately 2,300
registrants. At that meeting, Boehringer Mannheim sent dosed rapid
assays to attendees inviting them to stop by the booth. On the lab
side, Boehringer will display the new product at the American Assn.
for Clinical Chemistry, the Clinical Laboratory Management Assn.
and a number of local and regional sessions. The company utilizes a
speakers bureau for the presentations.

The company has also arranged journal placements in two major
emergency medicine journals, Annals of Emergency Medicine and
Emergency Medicine News, as well as Circulation and the Journal
of Cardiology. Later this year, ads will run in the Journal of
American Cardiology.

Probably the biggest obstacle to Cardiac T sales is overcoming
clinicians' traditional use of other markers and resistance to the new
technology in what is estimated to be an $82 million market in 1996.
To help do that, Boehringer Mannheim Diagnostics concentrates on
clinician education led by an evaluation program for its customers.
More than 130 publications and peer review studies are currently
available. Training in the use of Cardiac T is handled by a
combination of videotape tutorials, sales rep time spent with
customers and a policy and procedures manual.

Boehringer Mannheim Diagnostics utilizes a sales force made up of
10 specialists and over 100 sales representatives for lab sales
exclusively, in addition to approximately 250 reps on the pharmacy
side. The Cardiac T carries a list price of $30 per test, though group
purchasing organization contracts will discount that price. The
company is engaged in discussions with Oakland, Calif.-based
Kaiser Permanente, and several hospitals in the Nashville, Tenn.-
based Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. chain are currently
participating in evaluations of the new product.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

IMPLANTABLE PUMP MARKS STRATO/INFUSAID'S RE-
ENTRY INTO PAIN MANAGEMENT MARKET

After a five-year hiatus, Strato/Infusaid Inc., re-entered the pain
management market in the fall when the FDA cleared its Infusaid
Model 400 Single Catheter Constant Flow Implantable Pump. The
Norwood, Mass.-based subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., New York, will
go head-to-head with Medtronic, Inc., the Minneapolis-based giant
that until now has had the pain management pump market all to
itself.

Strato/Infusaid was active in the pain management market in the
1980s, before leaving that market in 1990 while awaiting
development and approval of its new device.

To overcome loyalty to the Medtronic product lines, Strato/Infusaid
is playing the cost card. The Model 400 is priced at $4,995, a figure
the company says is less expensive than current alternatives, both
initially and over time. The company says that the total cost over six
months is $18,654, which "compares favorably" with that of
implantable programmable pumps ($21,129), implanted catheters
($31,144) and externalized systems ($38,190). After four years, as
patient survival lengthens, treatment costs for the Model 400 are
$34,828, roughly two-thirds the cost of treatment with implantable
programmable pumps ($49,621), one-fifth the cost of implanted
catheter treatments ($158,572) and one-eighth the cost of treatment
with externalized systems ($273,852).

These figures have not been lost on Strato/Infusaid's target market,
which it defines as 80% anesthesiologists active in pain management
and 20% neurosurgeons. The company met with "extreme success"
last fall during a six-stop national show tour, during which the
response from physicians was positive for the less-expensive new
product, a departure from the scene only 10 years ago when cost
was virtually a non-issue. Another plus for the Model 400 is the fact
that it needs no batteries. With its "inexhaustible" power supply, the
device requires neither programming nor recharging, another
attribute of interest to end-users.

Along with the aggressive show schedule, Strato/Infusaid launched
a direct mail campaign to anesthesiologists and neurosurgeons,
including the 2,800 members of the American Pain Society. Journal
ads are running in Neurosurgery and in Anesthesia and Analgesia.

To sell the Model 400, Strato/Infusaid uses its 32-member direct
sales force plus eight nurses who perform critical inservice
functions. Surgeons, oncologists and community physicians require
training on the device, as do clinicians responsible for refilling
medication (Infumorph, a preservative-free morphine), such as
home health care nurses.

Anne Roussell, Strato/Infusaid's product manager for implantable
pumps, has two objectives for the first 12 months following release.
The first is to re-establish the company's name recognition, while
the second is to capture 20% of the market. She says that the U.S.
pump market for pain management is $30 million and growing at
about 15% a year.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

I-FLOW PROMOTES SIMPLE, LOW COST BAND-IT SYRINGE
DELIVERY SYSTEM

I-Flow Corp. is hoping that cost-conscious hospitals will take to a
low-cost, low-tech syringe delivery system that makes use of a
common rubber band to help reduce customers' supply costs when
delivering I.V. medications. The small Irvine, Calif.-based
manufacturer recently received FDA marketing clearance for the
Band-It--after a two-year wait--and is currently seeking one or more
distribution partners to help sell its new product.

The Band-It Syringe Delivery System, all of which is disposable,
consists of a patented syringe driver and a flow control set. The
driver provides the energy to deliver medication from a 10cc Becton
Dickinson syringe. The set controls the flow from the syringe via
restrictor-tubing technology. Currently, two infusion times are
available: 10cc over 15 minutes and 10cc over 30 minutes.

I-Flow says the product not only cuts I.V. supply costs but also
minimizes pharmacy fill-time and storage. To prove its point, the
company has produced a specially priced evaluation package that
gives providers a chance to try the Band-It on patients. The package,
which is aimed at nurses and pharmacists, emphasizes not only
clinical advantages but provides a detailed cost analysis as well. The
cost analysis offers supply costs when using the Band-It set
between two and 12 times. For two uses, the set costs a user $2.47
per dose in supplies. But at a 12-time rate, the cost drops to 60 cents
per dose. I-Flow says that little training time is needed for clinicians.

I-Flow president and CEO Don Earhart says he is looking for
partners ranging from independent medical distributors to full-line
distributors, especially distributors that could bundle the Band-It
with other products.

Once those distributor/partners are found, journal advertising and
direct mail efforts will begin. So far, I-Flow has displayed the
product at last month's 30th annual midyear clinical meeting of the
American Society of Health-System Pharmacists in Las Vegas. The
company plans to exhibit at a number of nursing shows later this
year as well. Both hospitals and alternate care facilities are expected
to be end-users of the Band-It system.

For I-Flow, only a $10 million company, even a modicum of Band-
It sales success will have a major effect on its bottom line.
According to figures Earhart quoted from industry I.V. leaders
Baxter Healthcare Corp., McGaw Park, Ill., and Abbott
Laboratories, Abbott Park, Ill., approximately 300 million
antibiotic/anti-infective doses are delivered outside the hospital each
year in the U.S. Although not every dose can fit into a 10cc syringe,
Earhart believes that between 40% and 50% can. In addition, a 20cc
version of the Band-It system is expected to be marketed later this
year.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

OUTCOMES STUDIES BECOMING A "MUST" FOR
SUCCESSFUL DEVICE SALES

As demand increases for proof of not only safety and efficacy, but
the economic impact of today's medical devices and pharmaceuticals
(especially biotech drugs), manufacturers in great numbers are
turning to outcomes studies to prove their points to customers. The
cost may be high--from $100,000 into the multimillions for a
complex, peer-reviewed study complete with the accompanying
publicity effort to drive the information--but in many cases, sharp
competition among vendors and cost-conscious, managed care-
influenced providers can make a well-documented outcomes study
the difference between a sale and no sale.

R. Thomas Swem, principal, management consulting, for Boston-
based Deloitte & Touche LLP, is heavily involved in the production
of outcomes studies. He will deliver a keynote address in San Diego
during a Feb. 28-March 1 meeting titled Outcomes Studies for
Medical Devices presented by Global Business Research (1-800-
868-7188).

Swem says that the typical outcomes study on medical devices may
evaluate a new piece of equipment and its effect on a hospital's
department, the effect of a new machine replacing multiple
installations or potential FTE reductions associated with a new
equipment acquisition. Studies on disposable vs. reusable issues
and prepackaged approaches to vs. a la carte procurement are also
common.

A well-produced and promoted outcomes study "makes a coherent,
well-supported case for an outcome that may be somewhat
surprising," he said. An example of such a study was an early
evaluation of the benefits of laparoscopic vs. open surgery.
"Everyone seemed to have a sense that lap cholys were expensive,"
Swem said. "But the benefits proved they overshadow the costs."

Once an outcomes study has been completed, it must be marketed to
potential customers, chiefly physicians. On one occasion, Deloitte &
Touche mailed 300,000 copies of such a study to clinicians. A
popular approach today is to present the study on a video-quality,
PC-based format. To a modern medical device sales force armed
with automation tools, this delivery is a great help in making a case
to physicians.

Despite the best of intentions, manufacturers must overcome a
degree of skepticism in making their outcomes studies credible. This
is done by countering skepticism with hard data--and reams of it.
Swem reports that a toll-free telephone number was set up for one
study to take calls concerning the study. Another time, he invited
doubters to peruse documentation of blinded papers. A well-
prepared outcomes study generates a huge volume of painstakingly
assembled, complicated reports, often including medical records.
Such a study may involve investigative reports from 15 or 20
different institutions.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

EXCITEMENT AND FLASH SEEMED MISSING FROM 1995
RSNA SHOW

Although a number of last year's works-in-progress are now
available for purchase, there was general agreement that the 1995
trade show at the Radiological Society of North America meeting in
Chicago produced few, if any, surprises. Even the "tech junkies"
who wandered the vast floor space at Chicago's McCormick Place
to get their fill of new developments reported a lack of eye-openers.
One even went so far as to call the 1995 RSNA "a boring show."
Slow sales--rather than a lack of innovation or imagination--over the
past few years have assumed a rightful role as the culprit for the
missing excitement. There were few, if any, major product
introductions in the big ticket MR and CT segments. Enhancements
substituted for introductions.

Total attendance (60,161, including 23,883 non-exhibitors) was up
6.9% over 1994, when 56,262 viewed the displays on the
373,000sf show floor. By most accounts, vendors pulled back to a
more conservative approach to their presentations, cut the number of
personnel staffing the exhibits and threw fewer and less lavish
parties. Gone too were at least some of the multi-story "cities"
masquerading as booths, which some said signals an approaching
close to the RSNA as the "Disneyland of health care shows."

More administrators than before were on hand. There was also "a
new blending of focus on the radiology department head as the chief
information officer of digital imaging," said Mary Ann Kelly,
director of radiology and facilities for Los Angeles-based Purchase
Connection. She sees a tie-in of all imaging modalities into
information systems "from the viewbox, into the system and onto
the screen."

CR Gains Exposure

As it was with the 1994 show, smaller and faster were the dominant
themes for 1995. Open-architecture, low-end MRI systems were in
abundant supply for $750,000 or less through many vendors. MRI
sales are still down, by between 25% and 40% some say. But open-
architecture could save this segment as the horsepower race draws to
an end.

There were a few hot properties, of course. Computed radiography
(CR) was such an item, with several pieces offered at a "reasonable"
price for the first time. "Until the past year or two, the cost of CR
outweighed the benefits and the capabilities of the systems weren't
fully usable," said one attendee. One CR piece stood out: the direct
radiography prototype developed by DuPont Medical Products,
Newark, Del., that displayed how X-ray transmissions could be
converted into electronic data and presented via a satellite link
between the show floor and Chicago's Loyola University, providing
instant pictures on a monitor.

The competition has begun to heat up as several other manufacturers
have joined the CR chase, most notably major players like Fuji
Medical Systems, Stamford, Conn.; GE Medical Systems,
Milwaukee; Picker International, Cleveland, and Siemens Medical
Systems, Inc., Iselin, N.J. Agfa Technical Imaging, Ridgefield
Park, N.J., and the Health Sciences Division of Eastman Kodak
Co., Rochester, N.Y., are also in the fray. At the meeting, Kodak
and Siemens announced an agreement covering sales and service of
the Kodak Digital Science(TM) CR system 400. Predictions are that
the deluge of vendors will work to drive CR prices down.

The vendors' marketing approaches to CR vary, of course.
Siemens, for example, offers CR as an overall system along with its
Picture Archiving Communication Systems (PACS), while Fuji sells
its version of a horizontal CR table as a standalone item for general
radiography.

More players are entering the dry laser camera market. Until
recently, most felt that the Medical Imaging Systems division of
Polaroid Corp., Cambridge, Mass., had the largest share of the
market to itself with its Helios line. Its new large format Helios
1417 system, which began shipments in 1995, is aimed at the high
end of the market with a list price of about $100,000. Polaroid's
smaller format Helios 810 was introduced in 1993. Now, Agfa has
a prototype on the way, and 3M, St. Paul, Minn., is offering its
version with the 3M Dry View Laser Imaging Systems. 3M, in fact,
announced that it intends to launch its imaging systems and data
storage business as part of an independent, publicly owned
company in mid-1996.

Laser Mammography Debuts

Several attendees were impressed with one of the few truly new
technologies on display: laser mammography. One startup company,
Imaging Diagnostic Systems, Sunrise, Fla., made a splash with its
CTLM (CT Laser Mammography) that utilizes light generated by a
high-speed laser to view the breast. Sales are probably a couple of
years away, however, as clinical trials have yet to begin for the new
technology.

Siemens Enters U.S. Ultrasound Market

The entry by Siemens into a relatively mature U.S. ultrasound
market at a time when most observers feel there are already too
many ultrasound vendors scrambling for market share was a
surprise. Siemens introduced the Sonoline ultrasound system family
at RSNA to go with its CT and MR systems as the company rounds
out its offerings to hospitals. Siemens will face stiff competition
from GE Medical Systems in the ultrasound market in this country.

Remanufactured Equipment Posts Gains

With cost-conscious hospitals tightening their belts even more and
integrated systems eliminating equipment redundancies, imaging
equipment remanufacturers keep picking up steam. Companies like
Comdisco, Inc., Rosemont, Ill., Refurbco, Grand Rapids, Mich.,
and Picker's PTS (Picker Technical Services) Division appear to be
finding more acceptance than ever.

Price is becoming more critical too, particularly as the responsibility
for big ticket purchasing decisions radiologists share with
administrators who are beginning to regard imaging equipment as
commodities. Hospitals are just now beginning to consider life cycle
costs over five-year periods when making purchasing decisions.

Editor's note: Special thanks to Dave Natale, director of technical
assessment for SunHealth Alliance, Charlotte, N.C.; John Sutton,
contract manager for AmeriNet, St. Louis; and Derwood Dunbar,
Jr., president and CEO of MAGNET, Harrisburg, Pa., for their
help in preparing this report.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Conmed Corp., Utica, N.Y., will acquire New Dimensions in

Conmed Corp., Utica, N.Y., will acquire New Dimensions in
Medicine, Inc. (NDM), Mellville, N.Y., for approximately $32
million in cash. The deal is expected to close either this month or
early in 1996 and does not include NDM's international wound care
business. New Dimensions in Medicine is a developer and
manufacturer of electrocardiograph monitoring devices,
electrosurgical products and hydrogel wound dressings. Annual
sales of those products covered in the Conmed deal are estimated at
$28 million. NDM's electrocardiograph and electrosurgical products
will complement Conmed's line, while the wound care business
represents a new offering by Conmed. Prior to signing the
agreement with Conmed, NDM had been in discussions with Tyco
International, Exeter, N.H. The company is expected to sell its
international wound care business at a later date.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Mallinckrodt Medical, Inc., St. Louis, opened nuclear medicine

Mallinckrodt Medical, Inc., St. Louis, opened nuclear medicine
pharmacies in Miami, Fla., and in Columbus, Ohio, to supply
diagnostic imaging and therapy products to hospitals and nuclear
medicine clinics. The facilities became part of Mallinckrodt's
nationwide network of 36 diagnostic imaging services nuclear
medicine pharmacies.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., reported that a

United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., reported that a
French surgical team has successfully completed the first minimally
invasive coronary bypass operation performed in France using the
company's instruments. Surgeons there developed the technique at
U.S. Surgical's training and research center in Elancourt, outside
Paris. More instruments for the technique are under development.
The procedure took only 3.5 hours and was performed without
stopping the 50-year-old patient's heart, a common practice in
coronary bypass surgery. In July, surgeons completed the first
aortic bypass procedure ever performed through minimally invasive
incisions at California's San Ramon Regional Medical Center. A
few days later at the UCLA Center for Health Sciences in Los
Angeles, a similar procedure was performed using the totally
minimally invasive approach.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Innovative Technologies Group, Cheshire, England, and

Innovative Technologies Group, Cheshire, England, and
Minneapolis-based 3M have reached agreement on a contract that
establishes 3M as a global marketer of a new alginate wound care
dressing. The deal makes 3M responsible for international
marketing, sales and service activities. Marketing for the new
dressing, which is approved for use on moderate to heavily
exudating partial-to full-thickness wounds, will begin early in 1996.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Picker International, Cleveland, relocated its Nuclear Medicine

Picker International, Cleveland, relocated its Nuclear Medicine
Division to the company's world headquarters building in the
Cleveland suburb of Highland Heights, Ohio. The move to the
85,000sf facility doubles the manufacturing and engineering space
for the division, which was formerly located in Bedford Heights,
Ohio.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Invacare Corp., Elyria, Ohio, was named by Financial World

Invacare Corp., Elyria, Ohio, was named by Financial World
magazine as one of the top 50 "best and brightest" mid-cap
companies in America, defined as operations that have been public
for at least six years and having a market capitalization of between
$300 million and $3 billion. Invacare had sales of $411 million for
its fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 1994.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

EDAP Technomed International, a French manufacturer, learned that

EDAP Technomed International, a French manufacturer, learned that
a device it hopes to sell in the U.S. has passed muster from an FDA
advisory panel. The device, known as Prostatron, is the first in a
new class of products that can shrink enlarged prostates without
surgery by using microwaves. Although it is not as effective as
surgery, use of the device requires no hospital stay and has few side
effects, the panel was told.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

SangStat Medical Corp., Menlo Park, Calif., has filed a 510(k) with

SangStat Medical Corp., Menlo Park, Calif., has filed a 510(k) with
the FDA for market approval of its Celsior(TM), a product designed
to preserve the heart prior to cardiac transplantation and to promote
graft function in the initial 48 hours post-cardiac transplant surgery.
In October 1993, SangStat acquired exclusive rights to develop and
market Celsior in the U.S. and Canada from Pasteur Merieux
Serums et Vaccins, Lyon, France, a subsidiary of Rhone Poulenc.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

UroMed Corp., Needham, Mass., signed a five-year multi-national

UroMed Corp., Needham, Mass., signed a five-year multi-national
distribution agreement with Astra Tech, a member of the
Scandinavian-based Astra Group, for its Reliance(TM) Urinary
Control Insert. The contract gives Astra Tech exclusive rights to
distribute the Reliance Insert in the Scandinavian countries of
Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland, as well as the Netherlands
and the United Kingdom. Including a $16 million advance
commitment from Astra Tech, the deal is estimated to be worth as
much as $31 million over its term. Launch of the Reliance Insert in
the selected nations will take place throughout 1996. Worldwide
launch of the device began in the fall in Germany through a separate
distribution agreement.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

The American Occupational Therapy Assn. (AOTA) in November

The American Occupational Therapy Assn. (AOTA) in November
began publishing OT Practice, a new monthly magazine that covers
the profession and the association. The magazine is designed in a
64-page, four-color format.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "37"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

 Vollrath Group, Inc., Memphis, Tenn., says it is nearing

 Vollrath Group, Inc., Memphis, Tenn., says it is nearing
completion of a five-year, $10 million capital improvements
program at its 150,000sf Gallaway, Tenn., production facility
located about 35 miles northeast of Memphis. The program featured
the recent installation of a $2 million, state-of-the-art urinal
manufacturing cell. When fully operational, the new manufacturing
cell is expected to reinforce Vollrath's position as a large supplier of
urinals as well as other assorted patient care utensils, including
bedpans. The new cell is capable of producing more than 3,000
disposable polyethylene urinals per hour.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "38"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Oliver Products Co., Grand Rapids, Mich., a supplier of roll stock

Oliver Products Co., Grand Rapids, Mich., a supplier of roll stock
and blister lids for medical packaging in the U.S., has reached
agreement to purchase the pre-formed medical pouch product line
from Denver-based OnGard Systems, Inc. Oliver's plan is to move
the pouch production to Grand Rapids and incorporate the line into
its current medical product packaging line.

Separately, Oliver named Flexible Medical Packaging Ltd.,
Lancaster, England, as its exclusive converter/distributor for the
United Kingdom and all of Ireland in a deal that Oliver hopes will
expand its marketing reach internationally.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "39"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Dade International, Deerfield, Ill., and Intracel Corp., Cambridge,

Dade International, Deerfield, Ill., and Intracel Corp., Cambridge,
Mass., completed the sale to Intracel of Dade's wholly owned
Bartels subsidiary. The Bartels subsidiary, based in Issaquah,
Wash., markets a line of viral-testing and related products under the
Bartels name. Dade will now focus on its "core strategic strengths"
in hemostasis, microbiology, controls, chemistry and cardiac
diagnosis. Intracel is a major supplier of genetically engineered viral
proteins and antibodies. Terms of the deal were not available.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "40"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Bracco Diagnostics Inc. has relocated its corporate headquarters to

Bracco Diagnostics Inc. has relocated its corporate headquarters to
Princeton, N.J. The diagnostic imaging agent manufacturer
company formerly occupied space in the Bristol-Myers Squibb
building in Plainsboro, N.J.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "41"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

3M, St. Paul, Minn., connected the first commercial 3M Dry View

3M, St. Paul, Minn., connected the first commercial 3M Dry View
8700 Laser Imager in the U.S. when it installed the unit at the Mayo
Clinic in Jacksonville, Fla. The institution's department of
diagnostic radiology will use the 8700 laser imager to support its
new electronic imaging practice. The installation marks the
beginning of 3M's commercial roll-out of the new laser imaging
technology. The 8700 prints medical images on the preferred
14"x17" format and accommodates virtually all imaging modalities.
The systems range in price from $55,000 to $85,000. Placement of
units in Japan and Europe will soon follow.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "42"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Healthcare Materials Services (HMS), a pharmacy and materials

Healthcare Materials Services (HMS), a pharmacy and materials
services outsourcing concern, and a division of Houston-based
Owen Healthcare, Inc., and Kowalski-Dickow Associates, Inc.,
Milwaukee, have formed a strategic alliance designed to promote
materials management-related services to health care clients. The two
companies have been working together since 1994, with Kowalski-
Dickow using HMS' Supplyline, a proprietary hospital product
pricing database, for several of its clients.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "43"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Cantel Industries, Inc., Clifton, N.J., will acquire MediVators,

Cantel Industries, Inc., Clifton, N.J., will acquire MediVators,
Inc., Cannon Falls, Minn., through a stock swap agreement.
MediVators designs, manufactures and markets endoscope
disinfection equipment and supplies medical waste disposal
systems. Through its Canadian subsidiary, Carsen Group Inc.,
Cantel markets and distributes a variety of instruments, including
flexible and rigid endoscopes.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "44"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Heraeus Surgical, Inc., Milpitas, Calif., and Minneapolis-based

Heraeus Surgical, Inc., Milpitas, Calif., and Minneapolis-based
CVAC, Inc. have agreed on an exclusive licensing arrangement in
which Heraeus Surgical will exclusively manufacture, use and sell
CVAC's Centralized Airborne Evacuation System worldwide. The
system works to improve overall air quality and safety in the
operating room during surgical procedures.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "45"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., introduced a

United States Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., introduced a
minimally invasive breast biopsy system at the recent meeting of the
American College of Surgeons in New Orleans. The system, known
as the Advanced Breast Biopsy Instrument (ABBI(TM)) system, is
said to be more accurate in identifying the tumor site, which means
less pain, disfigurement and scarring for the patient. USSC also
says that the ABBI system can reduce costs by as much as $2,000
per procedure. The company is hoping for April clearance for ABBI
from the FDA.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "46"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Image Diagnostic Systems, Inc., Sunrise, Fla., took an unusual tact

Image Diagnostic Systems, Inc., Sunrise, Fla., took an unusual tact
when it unveiled its new CTLM ultra-fast laser mammography
device. Company CEO Richard Grable appeared on a Donahue
show segment that aired on Nov. 20 to discuss the CTLM, which he
invented.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "47"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

WORTH READING . . .

A brief review of some articles of interest to Health Industry Today
readers for January:

+ Hospital Materials Management analyzes the blockbuster Baxter
split from the perspective of hospital purchasers, focusing on its
impact on service, possible switches to other medical-surgical
suppliers and future price hikes for both products and services.
HMM's January price survey tracks current prices for needles and
syringes. SunHealth's merger with Premier/AmHS will also be
examined from the buying group angle.

+ Health Care Strategic Management covers the attitudes among
hospital planners and administrators toward outsourcing. There's
also an article on The Revolt Against the One-Day Stay and its
consequences for today's hospital.

+ Profiles in Healthcare Marketing reviews a survey titled "Patient
Care: Bridging the Gap with Hispanic Consumers," believed to be
the first comprehensive study of Hispanic attitudes, usage patterns
and needs concerning health care providers and facilities. One
surprise finding: Hispanics surveyed say they were more uneasy
about young physicians' disheveled dress than their fluency in
Spanish.

+ Financial Advertising Review explains how integrated delivery
systems use marketing campaigns to help overcome consumers'
indifference and managed care organizations' skepticism to their
structure.

Please address inquiries concerning the above newsletters to The
Business Word, Inc., publishers of Health Industry Today, 303-
290-8500, or FAX 303-290-9025.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "48"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

OUTCOMES ANALYSIS CAN WIN OVER TOUGH
AUDIENCES

By Michael T. Kelly
The medical device industry isn't usually thought of as a high-
fashion business. It's a long way from orthopedic implants and
intra-aortic balloons to Bill Blass and Calvin Klein. Even so, the
medical device industry has its own "fashions"--trends that gather
momentum and buzzwords that hang in the air. And the trend of the
moment is "outcomes."

There's good reason for this, of course. The rise of outcomes
analysis is the product of two interwoven revolutions under way in
the health care industry. The first is the emphasis on cost and
performance. The second comes from advances in information
technology. As we become more adept at digital manipulation, our
understanding of the health care landscape becomes sharper and
more sophisticated. And it is here that cost and performance
concerns intersect with data-gathering ability. The development of
information-based health care delivery allows opportunities to be
pinpointed with greater precision than ever before. To think in terms
of outcomes--of the cost and success rate of a complete course of
therapy rather than the price of its individual components--is a
natural extension of this point of view.

So it is that the health care vendor today finds himself or herself in a
transitional environment that requires skillful navigation. For while
there may be agreement in theory regarding the benefits of an
outcomes approach, as with so many things the actual practice lags
behind. "It's very easy for a purchasing agent to look at a 10%
discount and grasp immediately what he is getting," Joseph
Laptewicz, president and CEO of Empi, a manufacturer of
neurological and urological devices, told me recently. "Selling him
on a new therapy that represents up-front expense but a 30% to 40%
reduction in total therapeutic cost is more difficult."

That there should be resistance in the face of such a payoff is a
frustrating predicament, but not without its reasons. A large part of
the problem is rooted in the fact that it is much more difficult to sell a
new therapy than a new product. It involves not just making space
on the stockroom shelves, but changes in the treatment protocol--the
"operating manual" that lies at the heart of the customer's business.
Prescribing a pain management device means more than incurring
the $500 cost of the product--it means asking physicians to adopt a
more time-and labor-intensive approach than writing the traditional
prescription for narcotic medication. Calling for such a fundamental
shift is a tall order--and one that requires winning over people at all
levels within the network, from M.D.s and R.N.s to plan
administrators and medical directors--each of whom has a natural
loyalty to "tried and true" methods. "It's easiest not to change,"
explains Laptewicz. "And at times it seems like there are a thousand
people who can say no, and no one who can say yes."

The key to convincing such a tough audience lies in taking their
"show me" attitude and turning it to your advantage. Empi solved
that problem by developing a limited outcomes trial that providers
can conduct at one of their sites. "It's easier to convince an HMO to
try our incontinence devices at one of their locations than to change
over the entire network at once," says Laptewicz. "After the
providers see cost and performance data on a group of 30 of their
own patients over a six-month period, they are much more receptive
to our message."

Indeed, while the emphasis on outcomes may be the result of new
thinking, today's vendor will do well to be guided by the old and
reliable standard of customer needs. For if hospitals are beginning to
judge by outcomes, so too are they being judged--by payers and
patients. Customer education also plays a key role, as sophistication
on this issue will vary greatly from account to account. There is no
uniform measurement for outcomes, after all, and as the health care
industry gropes toward standards for various indications, there is an
opportunity for the device maker to contribute its expertise to the
dialogue. "An institution may want to claim that it can wean patients
off ventilators within a certain period of time. We need to give them
support to help them make that claim," says Jim Hickey, president
and CEO of Aequitron Medical, whose products include sleep apnea
equipment and infant monitors. Doing so means designing devices
that provide the raw information that makes such a statement
possible. For while there will always be debate on how to define an
outcome, you can't even begin the discussion unless you have the
data. Thus, customers are placing a greater premium on remote
monitoring and recording functions. Hickey lists two things he
wants his sales force to be able to offer: a positive outcome at a
competitive cost, and the data to support those cost and performance
claims. As medical software houses develop increasingly complex
clinical decision support systems, the value of such data will only
increase.

Ultimately, the focus on outcomes is part of a larger matrix of
factors controlling health care purchasing, including patient
compliance, cost and quality of life. But as Aequitron's Jim Hickey
points out, these are just a modified version of the factors that we
already use when buying something for ourselves. "If you are
thinking about buying a car, for example, you ask four things:
'How much will I use it? How much does it cost? How well does it
work? and How much will it improve my quality of life?' It's
becoming the same with buying a medical device."

Michael T. Kelly, a former vice president at St. Paul, Minn.-based
St. Jude Medical, is a managing director of Russell Reynolds
Associates, a global executive recruiting firm.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "49"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

OWENS, HENRY SCHEIN MARKETING TANDEM CREATES
"VIRTUAL ORGANIZATION"

Owens & Minor, Inc., and physicians' office supplier Henry
Schein, Inc., Melville, N.Y., have signed a multi-year joint
marketing agreement designed to broaden the product offerings of
both companies. The "virtual organization" formed by the pact,
known as Net/GAIN(TM), will give Richmond, Va.-based Owens
access to the physicians' office market for the first time and help
Henry Schein gain entry to new business through integrated delivery
systems across the country. To compensate Owens & Minor for its
efforts in bringing in new business, Henry Schein will pay an
unspecified fee to Owens based on a percentage of sales.

The arrangement is scheduled to be launched this month. Henry
Schein executives will address the Owens & Minor sales force on
the Net/GAIN project at the end of the month at a national sales
meeting.

Owens will inject its sales and marketing expertise, in particular its
proficiency in the areas of rebates and chargebacks, into the virtual
organization. Henry Schein brings access to its more than 200,000
physician customers, many of them in the dental segment, which
will allow the Net/GAIN organization to offer a range of services to
integrated delivery systems. Through the venture, Net/GAIN will
offer a "one-stop shop" to physicians, including pharmaceuticals,
office supplies and diagnostic products. The combination will also
boost the purchasing power of both companies.

Henry Schein will handle the logistics for Net/GAIN customers--
taking orders and completing shipments--and be responsible for
direct marketing and enrollment of individual practitioners in the
program. The company has about 200 sales reps, all of whom work
over the telephone, along with 50 direct field reps, with plans to
double that to 100 over time.

The 60-year-old company, which went public in early November,
operates distribution centers in Port Washington, N.Y., Indianapolis
and Reno, Nev., plus five more overseas. The company says that
37% of its customers receive one-day shipping service, while 88%
receive their shipments in two days, all through common carriers.
Due to the small nature of the vast majority of Henry Schein
shipments to doctors (mostly under $200 each), the company has
few back orders and boasts a 99%-plus fill rate.

That remarkable fill rate is reached through use of a supply
formulary approach that has worked to reduce both the number of
vendors with which it works and the number of SKUs it offers. For
example, Owens & Minor carries approximately 320,000 SKUs
while Henry Schein lists only about 90,000.

In early December, Net/GAIN signed up its first customer. The
program will provide medical-surgical supplies, laboratory,
imaging, diagnostic, health and beauty aids and office products to
physicians affiliated with the Montgomery General Hospital System,
Olney, Md. The agreement includes service to 229-bed Montgomery
General Hospital. Other pilot Net/GAIN programs are in place as
well.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "50"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

BAXTER'S NEW SUPPLY CHAIN PLAN WORRIES SOME
VENDORS

A program instituted by Baxter Healthcare Corp., Deerfield, Ill.,
designed to cut its costs and raise service levels for its hospital
customers has become a worry for a few medical-surgical supply
manufacturers. In September, Baxter's rationalized supply chain
program began to place slower moving items into the company's
new national drop-ship center in Chicago in a strategy that affects
both Baxter-made and non-Baxter-made supplies. The company
says that about 5% of its lines have been relocated to that Chicago
center.

The new stocking system is based on the number of times a line item
product is picked. Items that are picked more than 300 times a year
will remain stocked locally at one of the company's distribution
centers. Items that are picked between 80 and 300 times have been
moved to the Chicago drop-ship center. Items that are picked fewer
than 80 times will be drop-shipped from the manufacturer,
according to Baxter's plan, which is aimed at improving efficiency
and reducing dead inventory.

Despite all this, at least one vendor told Health Industry Today that
as a partner with Baxter, it feels that Baxter should maintain its local
stocking of all items. "We want our products stocked locally if
they're going to be a distributor for us," said the supplier, who
asked to remain anonymous. The vendor said he feels Baxter's new
system will serve to slow the distribution chain. On the other hand,
Baxter is convinced that its plan will improve fill rates, fill times and
predictability.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "51"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

KENTUCKY DISTRIBUTORS TO MERGE

An upcoming merger of two Kentucky-based medical-surgical
supply distributors was done, at least in part, to counter the trend of
acquisitions of med-surg distributors by publicly owned national
companies. Independent suppliers Ransdell Surgical, Inc.,
Louisville, Ky., and Grogan's Healthcare Supply Inc., Lexington,
Ky., announced plans to merge last month and said that avoiding
such an acquisition and maintaining local control was a "specific
objective" of their plans. The merger is expected to be completed
sometime in mid-1996.

The companies hope that such local control will protect jobs and
keep tax revenue at the local level.

The unnamed merged company will hold a dominant position in
each of the markets it serves, with more than 15,000 customers
throughout Kentucky and southern Indiana. Ransdell focuses on the
hospital market, especially in Louisville, Lexington, western
Kentucky and southern Indiana. Grogan's concentrates on
expansion into new product areas in non-hospital segments,
particularly in central and eastern Kentucky. The new company will
carry approximately 20,000 products from more than 1,500
manufacturers. It sells, rents and services these items for hospitals,
sub-acute nursing facilities, surgery centers, clinics and other
alternate site providers.

Ransdell also has two sister companies: Choice Medical, Inc., and
Medical Business Associates, which provides technologies and
management information to providers.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "52"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

SHOW BIZ . . .

One From The Heart

HIT couldn't make the recent American Heart Assn. annual meeting,
but a report from New York analysts C.J. Lawrence Inc. summed
up the proceedings. "One adjective that comes to mind to describe
the exhibit floor is . . . jammed," wrote C.J.'s Jill Topkis Weiss.
"Although a wave of consolidation has been sweeping through the
medical device industry, the number of vendors populating the
exhibit floor appears to have increased. The explanation for this
peculiarity may lie in heightened responsiveness from our nearest
and dearest friend, the FDA. We believe that the recent wealth of
new product approvals is responsible for the crop of new vendors at
this year's event." What was hot: continued focus on minimally
invasive products, potential therapies for atrial fibrillation and stent
studies galore.

Virtuality

Varian Associates has come up with a way to put all of its customers
and potential customers right down in the front row to see its latest
products. The Palo Alto, Calif.-based manufacturer set up a
"virtual" trade show "booth" that allows customers to see its
products from their desktops. The company believes that the virtual
booth, located inside of Varian Oncology Systems' Web Site (which
can be accessed at Varian's URL, http://www.varian.com.) is most
helpful for customers who cannot attend trade shows.

Role Playing

NCI will host a conference in Phoenix, Feb. 4-6, entitled
"Orchestrating New Roles: Group Strategies for the Health Care
Evolution." Senior executives from major GPOs and chains will
lead the discussions.

Call 714-589-6500.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "53"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

TRADING PLACES . . .

In response to reader requests, Health Industry Today provides this
listing of key health care trade shows. To add one, contact Curt
Werner at 303-290-8928, Ext. 138, or FAX 303-290-9025.

Dates Meeting Location Exhibitor types Single booth cost Est.
Attend. Contact

February

5-8 Med. Design & Manufacturing West Conference Anaheim,
Calif. m-s, or, lab, h/s $2,600 10,000 310-392-5509

8-13 American Assn. for Advancement of Science Baltimore h/s
1,350 5,200 202-326-6450

9-12 Dermatology Nurses Assn. Wash., D.C. Rx, m-s 1,050 1,000
609-256-2300

10-15 American Academy of Dermatology Wash., D.C. Rx, m-s,
or, ce 1,700 5,000 708-330-1090

22-26 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Atlanta m-s, ce,
or 2,100 12,500 708-823-7186

March

4-7 Soc. of Cardiovascular & Interventional Radiology Seattle ce
2,500 1,000 703-691-1805

5-7 Assn. of Operating Room Nurses Dallas Rx, m-s, or, ce 2,000
7,200 303-755-6304

10-12 American Pharmaceutical Assn. Nashville, Tenn. Rx, hc, h/s
2,500 5,500 202-429-7547

13-16 Society of Amer. Gastrointestinal Endo. Surgeons
Philadelphia m-s, or 1,700 1,200 310-314-2404

14-17 American Burn Assn. Nashville, Tenn. Rx, m-s, ce 1,600
2,500 708-824-5700

16-18 American Society on Aging Anaheim, Calif. Rx, m-s 800
3,500 415-974-9600

27-29 Federation of American Health Systems Wash., D.C. Rx, m-
s, h/s, or, ce 3,600 1,900 800-880-3247

April

12-14 Arthroscopy Assn. of North America Wash., D.C. m-s, or
2,000 1,200 708-292-2262

15-16 American Society for Laser Medicine & Surgery Orlando,
Fla. laser supplies 1,265 1,100 715-845-9283

21-23 The Healthcare Forum San Francisco h/s, co, pub 1,895
2,000 415-356-4322

21-23 American Assn. for Cancer Research Wash., D.C. Rx, lab,
pub, h/s 1,450 7,000 609-848-1000

22-23 American Society of Clinical Pathologists Boston lab, h/s,
pub 1,000 3,500 312-738-1336

22-24 American Society of Post Anesthesia Nurses Phoenix Rx, m-
s 1,150 1,700 609-848-1000

25-27 National Kidney Foundation Anaheim, Calif. Rx, m-s, h/s,
pub 1,700 2,600 816-221-9559

26-5/3 Occupational Health Nurses San Antonio, Tex. Rx, m-s, h/s,
pub 1,500 5,000 609-848-1000

28-30 American Assn. for Thoracic Surgery San Diego Rx, m-s, or
1,600 2,500 508-526-8330

29-5/1 American Assn. of Neurological Surgeons Minneapolis Rx,
m-s, lab 1,800 6,200 708-692-9500

29-5/1 American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists Denver
Rx, pub, lab 1,600 10,000 202-638-5577

Exhibitor Legend: pharmaceutical (Rx); medical-surgical supplies
(m-s); laboratory (lab); hardware/software (h/s); packaging (pkg);
home care (hc); managed care providers (mc); operating room (or);
capital equipment (ce); consultants (co); publishers (pub)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "54"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

PRODUCER PRICE INDEX INCHES 0.1% HIGHER IN
NOVEMBER; MEDICAL CARE COMMODITIES INCREASE BY
0.3%

Analysis:
The finished goods component of the Producer Price Index inched
higher by 0.1% in November, putting it at 128.6. This index, which
tracks wholesale level prices, stands at its highest point since 1982,
and is 2.0% higher than its November 1994 level.

Only two of the 16 selected categories tracked in this month's PPI
report registered price increases, led by surgical instruments,
including suture needles, prices of which rose by 0.6%. Five
categories decreased, led by catheter prices, which dropped by
2.5%. Eight categories went unchanged for the month.

November's unadjusted urban Consumer Price Index (for all
consumer items) slipped 0.1% to 153.6. Over the past 12 months,
this index is up 2.6%.

Medical Care Commodities rose 0.3% to 206.3 in November. Over
the past 12 months, this index is up 1.8%.

For most data, 100 equals the price level in 1982. For ophthalmic
goods and surgical implants, the base year is 1983. Drugs are based
in 1984. The medical X-ray index base is 1990. Figures are not
seasonally adjusted.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)

Source: U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 1995



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "55"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

PURCHASING MANAGERS: MANUFACTURING SLOWS
FOR FOURTH STRAIGHT MONTH

In November, for the fourth consecutive month, economic activity
slowed in the manufacturing sector, and at a slightly faster rate of
decline than in October, according to the most recent report from the
National Assn. of Purchasing Management. While this was
happening, the overall economy continued to grow, but at a slower
rate of growth than in the previous month.

The NAPM Purchasing Managers' Index decreased a bit in
November to 46.5%, compared with 46.8% in October. The NAPM
Production Index dropped to 45.8%, the lowest reading since June
1995 (44.8%). Both New Orders and Backlog of Orders indexes
have reversed direction each month for the past five months. The
New Orders Index for November rose to 50.1%, while the Backlog
of Orders Index increased to 41.5%.

The Supplier Deliveries Index for November recorded its fourth
straight month of faster delivery times, with a reading of 45.8%, the
speediest delivery indication since April 1991 (45.0%). The
Inventories Index increased to 43.2%, possibly indicating that
inventory reduction activity may have passed its peak. Half of the
purchasers polled said their own materials and supplies levels were
about right, but 44% said the levels were too high. Of the 20
manufacturing industries tracked, just four reported November
improvement, compared with eight improving in October over
September.

Purchasing Managers' Index (over 50% indicates that manufacturing
economy is generally expanding)

November '95: 46.5%
October '95: 46.8%
November '94: 59.9%

Production Index (over 50%, over time, is generally consistent with
growth)

November '95: 45.8%
October '95: 48.2%
November '94: 66.7%

Inventories Index (over 42%, over time, is generally consistent with
growth)

November '95: 43.2%
October '95: 40.7%
November '94: 47.2%

Price Index (over 47%, over time, is consistent with price increases)

November '95: 44.5%
October '95: 46.7%
November '94: 77.9%



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "56"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Wright Medical Technology, Inc.: Richard D. Nikolaev was elected

Wright Medical Technology, Inc.: Richard D. Nikolaev was elected
president and CEO of this Arlington, Tenn.-based manufacturer of
orthopedic products and instrumentation. Nikolaev has had more
than 30 years of experience in the orthopedic business, first as a
senior executive at DePuy, Inc., Warsaw, Ind., then as president of
Protek, Inc., now a subsidiary of the Swiss firm Sulzer Medica, and
most recently as president of Minneapolis-based Orthomet, Inc.,
which was acquired by Wright in December 1994. Herbert W.
Korthoff will stay on as chairman of Wright Medical, though he will
step back from day-to-day company management duties to focus on
long-term objectives following Nikolaev's appointment.

Wright Medical also promoted Terry Finley to general manager of
Canadian and European Operations. Finley has more than 20 years
in the orthopedic industry, with experience in finance and in sales
and marketing. He was most recently general manager of the
Howmedica Canada Division of Pfizer Hospital Products, Ltd.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "57"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Baxter International: William B. Graham retired as senior chairman

Baxter International: William B. Graham retired as senior chairman
and resigned from the board of directors of this Deerfield, Ill.-based
medical supply corporation. Lester B. Knight and Harry M. Jansen
Kraemer Jr. were named to the board. Graham, 84, joined Baxter in
1945 as vice president and manager and was named to the board of
directors that same year.

Baxter also appointed Marvin L. Miller president and CEO of Baxter
Healthcare Corp.'s Princeton, N.J.-based Nextran unit, which
handles the development and commercialization of organ transplant
technologies and services. Most recently, Miller served as vice
president of biotechnology licensing for American Cyanamid Co.,
Wayne, N.J. Prior to that, he was vice president of Johnson &
Johnson International, New Brunswick, N.J.

Finally, Baxter promoted Manuel A. Baez to executive vice
president, where he will continue to be responsible for expanding
worldwide markets for the company and globalizing Baxter's
hospital products manufacturing operations.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "58"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Medline Industries, Inc.: Susan Hall was named president of the

Medline Industries, Inc.: Susan Hall was named president of the
Medcrest(R) Cubicle/Drapery Division of this Mundelein, Ill.-based
manufacturer and distributor of health care supplies and textile
products. The Medcrest division provides health care institutions
with stock and custom decorative textiles, coordinated bed linen and
upholstery, and wall and floor coverings. Hall joined Medline in
1994 as director of marketing communications. She previously
worked for ConAgra, Rand McNally and New York-based Bristol-
Myers Squibb.

Medtronic, Inc.: Robert H. Kayser was promoted to vice president,
pacing, Europe, for this Minneapolis-based medical technology
manufacturer. He will be responsible for the overall leadership of
pacemaker marketing in Europe and for assisting Medtronic's
organizations in Europe in meeting marketing and financial goals of
the pacing business. This month, Kayser began his new duties at the
new headquarters of Medtronic Europe near Lausanne, Switzerland.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "59"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

HIDA: Cara C. Bachenheimer, director of government relations for

HIDA: Cara C. Bachenheimer, director of government relations for
the Health Industry Distributors Assn., was named executive
director of HIDA's Home Health Care and Long-Term Care Market
Groups. She succeeds Craig Jeffries, who has joined Healthspan
Services Inc., Kingsport, Tenn.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "60"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Behring Diagnostics: Rudi Steinmann was appointed head of

Behring Diagnostics: Rudi Steinmann was appointed head of
worldwide sales and marketing for global operations by this
Frankfurt, Germany-based immunodiagnostics company. He joins
Behring after spending the past 17 years at Abbott Laboratories,
Abbott Park, Ill., most recently as general manager of Abbott
Diagnostics Germany.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "61"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Rusch International: Frank Sodha was promoted to president of this

Rusch International: Frank Sodha was promoted to president of this
Duluth, Ga.-based manufacturer of urological and anesthesia
medical devices, where he will be responsible for all global
operations. Sodha, who joined the company three years ago,
previously was responsible for global manufacturing.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "62"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

B&G Equipment Co.: John Jefferson Dykstra was named director

B&G Equipment Co.: John Jefferson Dykstra was named director
for the cleaning and maintenance division of this Plumsteadville,
Pa.-based manufacturer of sprayers and spraying equipment for
pesticides and other chemicals. Dykstra will head up all sales and
marketing functions to the industrial, commercial and retail markets,
including health care facilities.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "63"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Varian Associates, Inc.: David A. Berkowitz was named national

Varian Associates, Inc.: David A. Berkowitz was named national
accounts manager for this Palo Alto, Calif.-based medical
accelerator manufacturer. He previously served as vice president of
the health systems group at ECRI, Plymouth Meeting, Pa.

Varian also promoted Scott J. Mestman to director of national
accounts. He joined the company in 1981 as a biomedical engineer
and served in a variety of positions, most recently as southwest
district sales manager.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "64"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Imagyn Medical, Inc.: Chris Bova joined this Laguna Niguel,

Imagyn Medical, Inc.: Chris Bova joined this Laguna Niguel,
Calif.-based manufacturer of minimally invasive devices for
women's infertility and gynecological surgery as vice president of
sales. Most recently, Bova served as director of sales, access
division, for Sims Deltec, St. Paul, Minn.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "65"></A>Copyright
HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY via NewsNet
January 1996

Owens & Minor, Inc.: Larry Sapp was promoted to Denver division

Owens & Minor, Inc.: Larry Sapp was promoted to Denver division
vice president for this Richmond, Va.-based medical-surgical supply
distributor. He succeeds Virgil Alonzo, who resigned that position.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-18</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-184</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh56.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023333 text/html 65220
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:31:21 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:24 GMT
Content-length: 65031
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh56.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet <BR>
January 17, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>UNIV. OF PA DOCTORS SETTLE WITH GOVT. ON FALSE CLAIMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(515 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>8TH CIR. MODIFIES STANCE ON INSURERS' OBLIGATION TO ASSURE&nbsp;PAYMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(482 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>SC MAN ASKS 4TH CIR. TO REVIEW STATE HEALTH POOL'S HIV EXCLUSION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(594 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>SUP. CT. ASKED TO REVIEW PA'S CONDITIONS ON MEDICAID-FUNDED&nbsp;ABORTIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(815 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>U.S. SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF INJUNCTION ON NE'S COVERAGE LIMITS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(773 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>MAINE MEDICAID PROGRAM AGREES TO LOOSEN NUTRITION SUPPLEMENT&nbsp;REQUIREMENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(331 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>9TH CIRCUIT REFUSES REHEARING ON ABORTION RECUSAL ISSUE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(713 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>PETITION SEEKS ANSWER ON STANDARD FOR CONSTITUTIONAL CHALLENGES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(775 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>6TH CIR. FINDS EXCESS INSURER LIABLE FOR MEDICAL EXPENSES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(438 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>4TH CIR.: INSURER MUST REVIEW DENIAL OF 'OUTSIDE SERVICE AREA'&nbsp;COVERAGE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(359 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>NEW ENGLAND INSURER TARGETED FOR UNLAWFUL DISCOUNTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(560 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>AR BLUE CROSS ACCUSED OF CHEATING POLICYHOLDERS OUT OF DISCOUNTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(563 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>U.S. SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF HMO VICARIOUS LIABILITY CLAIM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(404 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>PETITIONER SAYS ERISA AUTHORIZES INJUNCTIONS OF STATE COURT&nbsp;ACTIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1096 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>6TH CIRCUIT: CARDIAC SURGEON FAILED TO SHOW CONCERTED ACTION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(337 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>DISCOVERY CONTINUES IN PRIVACY SUIT AGAINST INDIANA HOSPITAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(390 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

UNIV. OF PA DOCTORS SETTLE WITH GOVT. ON FALSE CLAIMS

     Without admitting wrongdoing, the approximately 600 doctors
of the University of Pennsylvania's medical faculty agreed to pay
$30 million to deflect further government action for false
Medicare claims revealed by auditors.  United States v.
University of Pennsylvania Health System (ED PA).

     According to published reports, audits of the Clinical
Practices of the University of Pennsylvania (CPUP), which
comprises Penn's faculty, revealed approximately $10 million in
false billing to Medicare from 1989 to mid-1994.  The false
claims were reported to be of two types: (1) "upcoding" " where
Medicare was billed for more expensive procedures or examinations
than those actually performed; and (2) billing by faculty doctors
for procedures actually performed by resident doctors in
training.  This latter category represents "double dipping,"
since Medicare already pays for teaching costs in its direct
reimbursement to hospitals.

     The settlement, entered into by the parties Dec. 12,
requires CPUP to pay the government $30,013,490 in reimbursement
for the false claims, with the remaining $20-odd million
constituting a monetary penalty.  In return, the government
releases CPUP from civil liability and potential exclusion from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

     CPUP is not released from liability under the Internal
Revenue Code nor from criminal prosecution by the settlement.  In
fact, the settlement specifies that CPUP may not label the
settlement as punitive for the purpose of invoking a double
jeopardy defense to any criminal charges.  The settlement also
does not preclude the government from pursuing civil actions
against individual doctors.

     The settlement binds CPUP to continue the implementation of
a compliance program.  According to the compliance program
summary, "CPUP is committed to providing the highest quality
medical care to all patients in full compliance with billing
requirements."  The compliance program includes: (1) the
centralization of billing functions beginning with centralized
inpatient chart abstraction; (2) annual external audits and
continuous internal audits through the creation of a new Office
of Billing Compliance; (3) the continuation of the mandatory
education and training of physicians and billing personnel begun
in mid-1994; and (4) the establishment of two telephone lines
dedicated to billing information and reporting.

     However, the settlement may not be the last word on CPUP's
billing practices.  According to Doug Smith, a spokesman for
Pennsylvania Blue Shield, Medicare's fiscal intermediary in
Pennsylvania and New Jersey, Blue Shield has begun its own
intensive investigation of CPUP.  Smith said that its
investigation arose out of its normal provider utilization
reviews simultaneous with the government's investigation.  He
indicated that Blue Shield and the federal government have been
working together on the matter following receipt of a letter from
an anonymous tipster describing CPUP's fraudulent billing
practices.

     There is no timeframe for the completion of the
investigation, says Smith, but he said Blue Shield will be
thorough in an effort to recoup any monies overbilled.  According
to published reports, Blue Shield sells "Medigap" insurance under
its "Security 65" plan to 800,000 Pennsylvanians over age 65.
Smith says that Blue Shield investigators will look at claims
filed under that plan as well as those under its regular and HMO
plans.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

8TH CIR. MODIFIES STANCE ON INSURERS' OBLIGATION TO ASSURE
PAYMENT

     Health care insurers are not necessarily excused from
providing assurances of payment to plan participants under the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), a panel of the Eighth
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals held recently.  Henderson et al. v.
Bodine Aluminum et al., No. 95-2469 (8th Cir.).

     The panel's amended opinion follows its earlier grant of a
preliminary injunction barring Bodine Aluminum, Inc. from
refusing to cover the high-dosage chemotherapy treatment (HDCT)
needed by breast cancer sufferer Karen E. Henderson, the wife of
a Bodine employee and beneficiary to its health care plan.  The
panel found the exclusion on HDCT for breast cancer contained in
Bodine's plan to be discriminatory because the HDCT was not
excluded for other cancers for which it is an accepted treatment.

     In its original Sept. 27 decision, the panel held, "We agree
with the appellees Healthy Alliance Life Insurance Company and
Alliance Blue Cross and Blue Shield that because they do not
employ Henderson's husband but merely provide insurance services
to Bodine Aluminum, Inc. and its health benefits program, they
are not responsible for giving the assurance of payment that [the
plaintiffs] seek.  The...appellees are not covered under the
ADA."

               However, the panel, in amending its opinion on Oct. 31,
backed off a clear conclusion on the insurers' responsibilities.
The amended opinion reads, "Appellees...argue that because they
do not employ Henderson's husband but merely provide insurance
services to Bodine Aluminum, Inc. and its health benefits
program, they are not responsible for giving the assurance of
payment that [the plaintiff] seeks.  We express no opinion on
this issue, leaving it instead to be decided in the first
instance by the district court."

     The panel went on to note that its findings of fact and
conclusions of law in granting a preliminary injunction to the
plaintiff were not binding on the district court "so that none of
the substantive issues discussed in this opinion are foreclosed
from being litigated on remand."

     When contacted by the Health Law , Henderson's attorney,
Sheldon Weinhaus of Weinhaus and Dobson in St. Louis, said he
moved for an amended opinion because he was "upset with the
exculpation of Blue Cross."

     "Insurers act far more than simply issuing an insurance
policy," said Weinhaus.  Weinhaus noted for example that insurers
often reserve the power to act as plan sponsors and change
benefit levels, making them de facto employers.

     Since Henderson's participation in the HDCT trials was
randomized, and she ultimately received only an "intensive"
regimen of chemotherapy that Blue Cross would have paid for,
Weinhaus advised that the district court asked the parties to
address why the action should not be dismissed as moot.  Weinhaus
said that the matter of damages remains at issue.  Also remaining
at issue is the question of what happens should the intensive
chemotherapy prove inadequate and Henderson needs the HDCT
treatment, said Weinhaus.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

SC MAN ASKS 4TH CIR. TO REVIEW STATE HEALTH POOL'S HIV EXCLUSION

     A Columbia, SC, man with AIDS on Dec. 4 asked the Fourth
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals to review a federal judge's recent
ruling that the South Carolina Health Insurance Pool (SCHIP) does
not violate the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) by refusing
coverage for persons with HIV and AIDS.  Givens v. South Carolina
Health Insurance Pool et al., No. 95-2791 (4th Cir.).

     On July 14, U.S. District Judge Dennis Shedd said plaintiff
Samuel P. Givens Jr. could not challenge the SCHIP's restriction
under the ADA because ADA Section 501(c) bars the act from being
construed to prohibit "underwriting..., classifying..., and
administering...risks that are based on or not inconsistent with
State law."  The judge, who did not reach the Pool's claim that
it is not an ADA-covered entity, said the statutory decision to
exclude people with HIV and AIDS "is essentially an underwriting
decision," and that "HIV and AIDS are legitimate risk
classifications for underwriting purposes."

     In his appeal, Givens, who was substituted for now-deceased
original plaintiff John Doe in 1994, says the ruling is wrong
because HIV/AIDS is the only disease singled out by SCHIP.  He
adds that the ruling was entered despite the state's failure to
submit supporting actuarial data that persons with HIV/AIDS are
more costly to care for than those with cancer, heart disease or
other ailments.  He observes the irony that while he was denied
admittance, the Pool was created in 1989 by the South Carolina
General Assembly expressly to provide coverage "to all residents
of South Carolina denied insurance due to a preexisting health
condition."

     "Since it began operating, the Pool has followed the
statutory mandate to exclude people with HIV/AIDS from coverage
for medical care of any condition," said Givens' Fourth Circuit
petition.  "The Pool has no knowledge of any research undertaken
by the South Carolina General Assembly to estimate how many South
Carolina residents have HIV/AIDS and would qualify for Pool
coverage and the impact their inclusion on the Pool would have."
The petition said SCHIP has yet to conduct such research itself.

     "It is not surprising that the Pool offered no evidence to
justify the exclusion of people with HIV/AIDS alone because there
is no evidence that could ever support the exclusion," Givens
argued.  "Study after study has shown that the costs of treating
HIV/AIDS are comparable to, and oftentimes less than, the costs
of treating other medical conditions.  While not a substitute for
sound actuarial data, these studies are instructive and
demonstrate that there is no basis for excluding only people with
HIV/AIDS from the Pool."

     Givens estimated that although the lifetime costs of
treating HIV/AIDS averages in the "$60-80,000 range" and is not
covered by SCHIP, all other diseases are covered, including end
stage renal disease, "estimated at $175,000," multiple sclerosis,
"$207,000," and cancers, which he said "generally cost $114,000
for a lifetime of treatment."  He offered no comparison of the
rates of frequency between HIV/AIDS and the other ailments.

     He concluded by reiterating that the Pool is a covered
entity of the ADA by virtue of the ADA's self-stated application
to "public entit[ies]" including "any department, agency, ...or
other instrumentality of a state," 42 U.S.C. Section 12115(1)(B).

     Givens is represented by Peter Tepley of Turnipseed &
Associates, and Doak Wolfe, both of Columbia, SC; and by Marc
Elovitz, Matthew Coles and Ruth Harlow of the American Civil
Liberties Union Foundation in New York City.  SCHIP is
represented by Douglas McKay Jr. and Ruskin C. Foster of McKay,
McKay, Henry & Foster, also in Columbia.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

SUP. CT. ASKED TO REVIEW PA'S CONDITIONS ON MEDICAID-FUNDED
ABORTIONS

     The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by petition for writ of
certiorari filed Nov. 22, seeks Supreme Court review of a Third
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals decision invalidating
Pennsylvania's reporting and physician certification requirements
for Medicaid-funded abortions.  Knoll et al. v. Elizabeth
Blackwell Health Center for Women et al., No. 95-820 (U.S.).

     The circuit panel had adjudged that the requirements were
preempted by the 1994 version of the Hyde Amendment, a rider to
appropriations legislation that has governed in various forms
Medicaid coverage of abortions since 1976.

     The petitioners assert that the Third Circuit panel "upset
the balance of federal-state relations in a way which justifies
the Court's review" by "extend[ing] an unwarranted deference to
the decisions of a sub-cabinet level official" and by "allow[ing]
those decisions to override an otherwise valid state statute."

     Citing the U.S. Supreme Court's opinion in Gregory v.
Ashcroft, 501 U.S. 452 (1991), the petitioners maintain that if
Congress intended to alter the constitutional balance between the
federal government and the states, it must do so clearly and
unequivocally.  The petitioners note that the panel agreed that
the Hyde Amendment is silent with respect to the reporting
requirements at issue, but that the majority looked to
"bureaucratic fiat" to discern congressional intent.

     The petitioners also argue that the Third Circuit panel's
decision raised the ancillary issues of the deference due "an
agency position first asserted in litigation," and whether the
Secretary of Health and Human Services has any rulemaking
authority under the Hyde Amendment.

     In their Dec. 19 brief in opposition, the respondents argue
that the Third Circuit panel correctly affirmed the striking down
of Pennsylvania's reporting and certification requirements as
conflicting with its "obligation under federal law to fund all
abortions for which funding is not proscribed by Congress."  This
ruling is consistent with those of six other circuits and of
numerous district courts that have not been appealed or for which
appellate rulings have not yet come down, say the respondents,
the petitioners' "attempts to manufacture the appearance of a
circuit conflict" notwithstanding.

     The respondents also deny that the panel based its decision
on "an agency interpretation first asserted in litigation."
Instead, the petitioners argue that the decision was made "on the
basis of a long-standing, properly promulgated federal
regulation" that was entitled to deference.

               Finally, the respondents assert that "because this case
revolves in large part around the peculiarities of Pennsylvania
law, a decision by this Court on the merits will have an
extremely limited application outside of Pennsylvania."  As a
result, "it would be improvident for the Court to use its limited
resources at this time to decide this case, say the respondents.

     The instant litigation had its genesis when the Elizabeth
Blackwell Health Center, a provider of first trimester abortions,
and its two co-appellees, Greater Women's Medical Fund, a
provider of general health care services to the indigent, and
CHOICE, a health care information hot line, challenged those
portions of Pennsylvania's Abortion Control Act that placed
reporting requirements on women seeking Medicaid-funded abortions
for pregnancies arising from rape or incest.  Also challenged
were those provisions of the Act which require that a physician
without a pecuniary interest in performing abortions verify that
carrying the pregnancy to term would place the woman's life in
danger.

     The district court had granted summary judgment in favor of
Blackwell, noting that the 1994 version of the Hyde Amendment
lacked the reporting and physician certification requirements of
the Pennsylvania statute. The district court interpreted the
omission to indicate Congress's intent to eliminate these
requirements.

     A majority of the Third Circuit panel agreed that the
provisions of the Act at issue were preempted by the Hyde
Amendment.  The majority rejected the district court's conclusion
that by omitting reporting and physician certification
requirements from the 1994 Hyde Amendment, Congress intended to
prohibit these types of requirements.  However, the majority
deferred to the Health Care Financing Administration's
interpretation of the Hyde Amendment " that any state law not
including a waiver of the rape or incest reporting requirement in
cases where the patient is unable to comply for physical or
psychological reasons " unlawfully restricted access to abortion
services.

     Also given deference by the panel was the HCFA's
interpretation that one " and only one " physician need attest
that a patient's life would be endangered by carrying a pregnancy
to term.

     Representing the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is John G.
Knorr III, Chief Deputy Attorney General and Chief, Litigation
Section, Harrisburg, PA.  Representing the respondents are Linda
J. Wharton and Susan J. Frietsche of the Women's Law Project,
Philadelphia; Mary A. McLaughlin and Cynthia L. Randall of
Dechert Price & Rhoads, Philadelphia; Kathryn Kolbert and Eve C.
Gartner of the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, New York
City; and Seth Kreimer of the University of Pennsylvania School
of Law, Philadelphia.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

U.S. SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF INJUNCTION ON NE'S COVERAGE LIMITS

     The U.S. Supreme Court on Jan. 16 denied the State of
Nebraska's petition for review of a lower court's decision
enjoining it from enforcing its abortion coverage limits.  Nelson
et al. v. Orr et al., No. 95-766 (U.S.).

     In his Dec. 7 brief in opposition to the state's petition,
Dr. G. William Orr, a Nebraska physician, pointed out that the
Eighth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals' decision "is in complete
accord with every standing decision of the federal appellate and
district courts" to decide the question of whether "state
Medicaid programs must cover abortions for which federal funding
is not proscribed."

     Among the cases cited by Orr were Elizabeth Blackwell Health
Ctr. for Women v. Knoll, 61 F.3d 170 (3rd Cir. 1995) and Hern v.
Beye, 57 F.3d 906 (10th Cir. 1995).

     Further, Orr argued that these federal court decisions are
"supported by the structure of the federal Medicaid Act"
(Title XIX) and the Court's decision in Harris v. McRae, 448 U.S.
297 (1980).  In McRae, the Court rejected the claim that a state
had the obligation to unilaterally cover medically necessary
abortions for which federal funding was being withheld.  Orr
argued that this decision implies "that Title XIX requires states
to cover those medically necessary abortions for which the
funding obligation is not unilateral...and for which federal
funding is available under the Hyde Amendment."

     Additionally, Orr pointed out that the Health Care Financing
Administration, the federal agency charged with overseeing the
Medicaid program, had issued a directive interpreting the change
in the Hyde Amendment in a manner consistent with the Eighth
Circuit panel's ruling.  That interpretation is "entitled to
substantial deference" by the Court, said Orr.

     Finally, Orr argued that the courts below correctly ruled
that Title XIX created a federal right for which 42 U.S.C.
Section 1983 provides a remedy.  Orr distinguished Suter v.
Artist M., 503 U.S. 347 (1992), where the court found no private
right of action attached to the Adoption Assistance and Child
Welfare Act of 1980, "because no such privately enforceable right
was 'unambiguously' conferred by Congress."  Orr said that Suter
is inapplicable here since "the obligation of participating
states to provide Medicaid coverage for those medically necessary
abortions for which federal funding is available is unambiguous."

     The state of Nebraska had filed suit in the name of Gov. E.
Benjamin Nelson, after receipt of a letter from HCFA announcing a
change in the Hyde Amendment, an annual appropriations bill rider
restricting federal reimbursement for abortions.  That letter
included HCFA's interpretation that the change mandated state
funding for abortions of pregnancies resulting from rape or
incest.  At the time of receipt of the letter, Nebraska's
Medicaid Manual limited state funding to abortions where the
woman's life was in danger.

     The district court granted summary judgment in favor of the
respondents on Nov. 4, 1994, and enjoined enforcement of the
Medicaid Manual's abortion coverage limits.  A panel of the
Eighth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals affirmed the district
court's decision on July 25, 1995, holding that Title XIX
mandated that the states fund all medically necessary procedures
for which federal funding is available.

     In their Nov. 14 petition for writ of certiorari, the
petitioners asserted that the Eighth Circuit failed to recognize
Nebraska's authority under Title XIX to create coverage plans
"which are reasonable and consistent with the objectives of the
Medicaid Act."  Quoting the court's decision in Beal v. Doe, 432
U.S. 438, 444 (1992), the petitioners maintained that "[n]othing
in Title XIX requires participating states to fund every
procedure that falls within the delineated categories of medical
care."

     The petitioners added that the Eighth Circuit decision is
irreconcilable with a line of cases, including Zbaraz v. Quern,
596 F.2d 196 (7th Cir. 1979) and Preterm, Inc. v. Dukakis, 591
F.2d 121 (1st Cir. 1979), which recognize a state's discretion to
construct Medicaid plans to suit their own circumstances.

     The petitioners also advanced the argument that the court in
Harris "implicitly rejected the contention that the Hyde
Amendment substantively amended Title XIX."

     Finally, the petitioners asserted that the supremacy clause
does not give the respondents the right, under 42 U.S.C. Section
1983, to nullify a state law.

     "Section 1983 was not intended to give a cause of action to
individuals where the only "wrong" committed by a state is
misapprehending the precise location of the boundaries between
state and federal power," the petitioners said.

     Representing Orr were Simon Heller and Janet Benshoof of the
Center for Reproductive Law and Policy, New York City, and
Lawrence I. Batt of Batt & Associates, Omaha, NE.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

MAINE MEDICAID PROGRAM AGREES TO LOOSEN NUTRITION SUPPLEMENT
REQUIREMENTS

     Avoiding the progression of a legal battle to the First
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, the Maine Department of Human
Services on Nov. 14 agreed to expand its state Medicaid coverage
to include liquid dietary supplements for clinically malnourished
AIDS patients who do not yet use a feeding tube.  Fisher et al.
v. Sheehan (previously, Hines v. Sheehan), No. 94-326-P-H (D ME).

     In September, the attorney for now-deceased plaintiff
Raymond Hines filed a notice of appeal with the First Circuit,
challenging U.S. District Judge D. Brock Hornby's July ruling
affirming the Maine Medicaid rule governing supplement coverage.
Hines was previously denied Medicaid coverage for supplements he
was taking.

     The trial judge said that although the state failed "even to
articulate a plausible reason" for limiting liquid dietary
supplement coverage only to persons with end stage renal disease
while denying coverage for those diagnosed as clinically
malnourished, such a requirement could not be found to violate
the Americans With Disabilities Act, the federal Medicaid Statute
and regulations (42 U.S.C. Sections1396, 1396r-8; 42 C.F.R.
Section 440.230[c]), or the U.S. Constitution's equal protection
clause.

     Under a stipulation of dismissal filed with the First
Circuit by both parties, the Department has agreed to amend its
Maine Medical Assistance Manual to provide coverage of liquid
nutrition to Medicaid recipients who are: "A) Currently
malnourished...; and B) At significant risk for malnourishment
secondary to an underlying medical condition...."

     The Department was instructed to propose such amendments to
current rules by Dec. 31, 1995, and to "promptly identify any
current Medicaid recipients who have a request pending (including
any pending appeals) for coverage of liquid nutrition.  The
state, which did not admit to any liability in entering the
agreement, will pay $4,105 in legal costs and filing fees and pay
substitute plaintiff William Herbert Fisher $300.

     Hines was represented by Jack Comart of Pine Tree Legal
Assistance, Inc.  Andrew M. Gattine of the Maine Department of
the Attorney General represented the state.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

9TH CIRCUIT REFUSES REHEARING ON ABORTION RECUSAL ISSUE

     The Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals on Nov. 27 rejected
the suggestion for a rehearing en banc in the matter of a judge's
refusal to recuse himself from an appeal of two abortion protest
convictions.  Feminist Women's Health Center et al. v. Codispoti
et al., No. 90-35266 (9th Cir.)

     The panel members had polled all active judges of the
circuit, and none requested a vote on whether to rehear the
matter en banc.

     The plaintiffs, in their Nov. 21 motion for rehearing,
asserted the importance of the question of "whether a judge
should recuse himself in a case concerning the rights of those
who provide abortions, who has written that Catholic judges
should ignore controlling judicial precedent if following
precedent would support abortions and who has also expressed
hostility in his writings toward the providers of abortions."

     The plaintiffs said that in denying their earlier motion for
recusal, Judge John T. Noonan Jr. incorrectly construed the issue
to be his membership in the Catholic church.  Rather, the
plaintiffs contended that the issue was whether a judge, based on
his specific writings, "can follow his judicial oath rather than
his published views."

     The plaintiffs opened their clinic (the Center) in Everett,
WA, in 1983.  The named defendants began protesting at the site
before the opening of business and engaged in harassing tactics
during the eight months the center operated in Everett.

     Beyond pickets and harassing phone calls, the clinic was set
on fire on three separate occasions; after the last and most
severe fire, the plaintiffs opted not to reopen.  Co-defendant
Curtis Beseda was subsequently convicted for setting the fires.

     The plaintiffs had sued in state court to obtain an
injunction against the protesters.  (The third clinic fire had
been set in the midst of the April 1994 trial.)  The state trial
judge granted an injunction barring the defendants from engaging
in illegal conduct; the order proved ultimately unnecessary, as
the Center never reopened.

     In 1986, the plaintiffs then brought the instant suit under
Sections1962(c)-(d) in the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Washington, alleging predicate acts of arson and
Hobbs Act extortion.  The jury concluded that Beseda had violated
Section 1962(c), and that Beseda, Dottie Roberts and Sharon
Codispoti conspired to commit the substantive violation.  The
court divided the attorney's fees equally among the defendants.

     Roberts and Codispoti argued on appeal that the plaintiffs
could have raised the RICO allegations in their state court
action; the Ninth Circuit agreed in reversing the judgment.  "We
conclude that the RICO claims were ripe at the time the state
court judgment was filed, and therefore, the Center could have
brought them in the earlier trial," the panel wrote.

      The trial court had rejected the defense's res judicata
arguments, concluding that the RICO claims were based on
different infringements of the plaintiff's rights and sought
different redress, and that the RICO claims were not mature at
the time of the state trial because the plaintiffs had not yet
decided not to reopen.

     However, the Ninth Circuit panel, by decision dated Aug. 27,
held that the appellants satisfied the four requisite elements
for res judicata.  The panel ruled that both lawsuits concerned
identical subject matter, parties and "quality of the persons for
or against whom the claim is made."  The panel also determined
that the two suits concerned the same cause of action after
concluding, in an admittedly closer call, that the suits involved
infringement of the same right.

     "In essence, the Center is merely seeking remedies under a
new legal theory: treble damages under RICO for the same conduct
on behalf of appellants," the panel wrote.  "This does not
establish an independent cause of action."  The panel reversed
the decision of the district court on that basis.

     Judge Noonan, a member of the panel, denied the plaintiff's
motion for recusal Nov. 7, pointing to the provision of
Article VI of the U.S. Constitution, which holds that "no
religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any
Office or public trust under the United States."

     Representing the plaintiffs were Kristin Houser of
Schroeter, Goldmark & Bender and William J. Bender of Skellenger,
Bender, Mathias & Bender, both of Seattle.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

PETITION SEEKS ANSWER ON STANDARD FOR CONSTITUTIONAL CHALLENGES

     South Dakota's governor and attorney general on Nov. 29
filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme
Court, maintaining that the Eighth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals
erred in striking down South Dakota's one-parent notification
requirement for minors seeking abortions.  Janklow et al. v.
Planned Parenthood et al., No. 95-856 (U.S.).

     The petitioners assert that granting the writ will resolve
the disagreement among the circuits on the precedent to follow in
challenges to the constitutionality of abortion statutes.

     In striking down South Dakota's parental notification
requirements, the Eighth Circuit panel applied the "undue burden"
standard for determining the facial constitutionality of an
abortion law set forth in Planned Parenthood of Southeastern
Pennsylvania v. Casey, 112 S.Ct. 2791 (1992).  The court in Casey
held that an abortion law is unconstitutional if it operates as a
substantial obstacle to the choice to undergo an abortion "in a
large fraction of cases in which [it] is relevant, ...[i]t is an
undue burden, and is therefore invalid."

     Prior to Casey, the applicable precedent was the strict
burden placed on challengers to constitutionality enunciated in
United States v. Salerno, 481 U.S. 739 (1979) ("the challenger
must establish that no set of circumstances exist under which the
Act would be valid").

               The petitioners note that the Fifth Circuit U.S. Court of
Appeals, in Barnes v. Moore, 970 F.2d 12 (1992), explicitly
refused to interpret Casey as overruling Salerno.

     The petitioners also note that granting the writ would allow
the Supreme Court to decide the important question of whether a
judicial bypass is required in a single-parent notice statute.
The court, in Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 497
U.S. 502, 510 (1990), said that the question of the need for
bypass procedures in parental notification statutes has not been
decided, noted the petitioners.  Answering this question, say the
petitioners, would allow state legislatures "[t]o function
properly in an area which touches on constitutional rights."

     The petitioners also argue that the Eighth Circuit panel's
decision disregards the "rational relationship" test for notice
statutes subscribed to by a court majority in Hodgson v.
Minnesota, 497 U.S. 417 (1990).  In Hodgson, the court examined a
two-parent notification statute in terms of its "rational
relationship" with legitimate state interests.

     Finally, even if the undue burden standard of Casey is
adjudged to be applicable, the petitioners maintain that the
notice requirement does not place an undue burden on minors
seeking abortions.  First, the statute gives no veto power to
parents, say the petitioners.

     Second, the petitioners argue that the Eighth Circuit panel
erred in (1) "treating South Dakota's one-parent notice statute
as equivalent to a two-parent statute"; and (2) "extend[ing] the
rationale of Casey for striking down spousal notice to the issue
of one-parent notice with regard to 'mature minors.'"

     Third, South Dakota's exception to the notice requirement
for minors who are abused by their parents "provides better
protections for abuse victims than are available in judicial
bypass states," argue the petitioners.

     Fourth, the petitioners take the stance that the struck-down
statute would "maintain the confidentiality of the abortion
requested."

     Last, there was no evidence before the Eighth Circuit panel
supporting "the existence of a large fraction of minors who would
be unduly burdened by [the] South Dakota parental notice
statute," the petitioners say.

     The instant controversy arose when the U.S. District Court
for the District of South Dakota ruled that the parental
notification provision of South Dakota's abortion law was
unconstitutional because it did not allow for mature minors or
for those immature minors whose "best interests" do not include
parental involvement to bypass the requirement.

               In affirming the district court's decision, the Eighth
Circuit panel held that the state had no legitimate interest in
"placing a substantial obstacle" in the path of these categories
of minors when they seek "pre-viability" abortions.  The law's
exception to the notification requirement for abused or neglected
minors did not adequately bypass the notification requirement
because it did not protect the minor's confidentiality, said the
panel.  Additionally, the panel observed that the exception did
not provide access to an independent decisionmaker for a
determination on the minor's maturity and on whether it was in
the minor's "best interests" to involve a parent.

     South Dakota's abortion law, enacted in 1993, prohibited,
with some exceptions, the performance of abortions on
unemancipated minors prior to 48 hours after written notice was
delivered to at least one parent.

     Representing the petitioners are Mark W. Barnett, Attorney
General, State of South Dakota; and John P. Guhin and Janine
Kern, Deputy Attorneys General, Pierre, SD.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

6TH CIR. FINDS EXCESS INSURER LIABLE FOR MEDICAL EXPENSES

     An excess insurer is liable for $128,232 in medical expenses
incurred by a dependent covered by an employer's self-funded
medical benefit plan, the Sixth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals
ruled Nov. 29, rejecting the insurer's interpretation of the
contract provision governing coverage for disabled beneficiaries.
Thorn Apple Valley Inc. v. Allianz Life Insurance Co. of North
America, No. 94-1841 (6th Cir.).

     Thorn Apple Valley sponsored and administered a self-funded
benefit plan for its employees.  Under an excess risk policy,
Allianz Life Insurance Co. was obligated to provide coverage
above a $200,000 deductible or attachment point for 1987 and a
$75,000 deductible for 1988.  An employee's husband, Ralph
Hoffer, was added as a dependent in 1981.  Their marriage
certificate described him as "unemployed-handicapped" because he
was blind due to insulin-dependent brittle diabetes mellitus.  He
enjoyed activities in and outside their home until late 1987,
when he was hospitalized for end-stage kidney disease.  Hoffer
died in 1988 in the hospital.

     Thorn Apple was billed about $650,000 for Hoffer's medical
expenses and notified Allianz it planned to file a claim under
the excess risk policy.  Thorn Apple then decided Hoffer was
ineligible for benefits because the plan excluded dependents who
are "in a disabled condition" when they initially become eligible
for coverage.  Thorn Apple then reversed its position, deciding
Hoffer was covered, but Allianz denied liability.

     A diversity-based complaint was filed in U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan.  After a bench trial, Judge
Lawrence P. Zatkoff ruled that Hoffer was not disabled within the
meaning of the policy, ordered Allianz to reimburse $128,232 to
Thorn Apple and awarded post-judgment interest under federal and
state law.

     The Sixth Circuit affirmed the award but modified by
allowing only federal, not state, post-judgment interest in an
opinion by Judge James L. Ryan.  The panel found Hoffer eligible
for benefits because he was not in a "disabled condition" when
first covered by the plan, despite blindness and diabetes.  The
unambiguous language of the plan provides that a person is
disabled only if confined by illness or injury in a hospital,
institution or at home and if unable to carry on any substantial
part of customary activities for someone of a similar age and
gender.  Hoffer did not fit that definition, the panel held.

     Next, the panel found no error in admission of hospital
bills as business records.

     Finally, the panel held that Judge Zatkoff had improperly
awarded both federal and state post-judgment interest, thus
creating an impermissible double recovery.  Although it was a
diversity-based action, only the federal statutory interest
provision applies, the panel found.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

4TH CIR.: INSURER MUST REVIEW DENIAL OF 'OUTSIDE SERVICE AREA'
COVERAGE

     A trial judge must have an adequate administrative record
when reviewing the discretion of a health plan administrator
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, even when the
plan gives the administrator sole authority to determine the
eligibility of beneficiaries under the plan, the Fourth Circuit
U.S. Court of Appeals ruled Dec. 4.  Bernstein v. CapitalCare
Inc., No. 94-2448 (4th Cir.).

     Philip Bernstein filed suit to recover the medical expenses
his late brother Jeffrey Bernstein incurred for treatment of AIDS
while the brother was in New York and outside the area covered by
CapitalCare, a health maintenance organization.  The plan said it
would not cover treatment outside the Washington, DC, area if the
need for such treatment was foreseeable.

     "Whether [the brother's] need for care was reasonably
foreseeable is a factual determination that must be supported by
competent medical evidence" that was not before the court when it
made its ruling, the panel said.  The panel said the
administrative record developed by CapitalCare before it
rejected the claim was so skimpy that the trial court had to rely
on facts not before it.

     Because the court had to review CapitalCare's decision under
an abuse of discretion standard since the plan gave it sole
discretion to determine eligibility for benefits, "the
administrative record must document the decision-making process.
If the evidence before the plan administrator is inadequate, the
district court should remand the case to the administrator to
receive additional evidence and to make a new determination."

     The panel further emphasized that the deference the trial
judge should accord the decision depends on how much of a
conflict the administrator has.  In this case, "Capital Care
operates under a conflict of interest when it makes benefit
determinations, because it both administers the plan and pays for
benefits received by its members.  In other words, if CapitalCare
denies health benefits to its members, it generally profits by
the amount of expenses avoided."

     Bernstein's estate is represented by Richard Carter and
Jacqueline Bennett of Hudgins Carter & Coleman in Alexandria, VA.
Charles Steele and Mary Atchley Jester of Foley & Lardner in
Washington, DC represent CapitalCare.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

NEW ENGLAND INSURER TARGETED FOR UNLAWFUL DISCOUNTS

     A class action was filed against United Health Plans of New
England in U.S. District Court in Boston Dec. 5, alleging
deception in the secret negotiation of discounts with hospitals
and health care providers and the failure to pass those discounts
on to the insureds.  Powers et ux. v. United Health Plans of New
England, No. 95-12633 (D MA).

     The suit maintains that this practice caused insureds to
overpay their required copayment for medical procedures.

     Lead plaintiffs Lisa and Patrick Powers, who are insured by
United Health Plans of New England, brought suit on their behalf
and on behalf of class members insured from Jan. 1, 1990, through
Dec. 31, 1995.

     The Powerses purchased health care insurance from United for
the period from March 1993 through Oct. 1, 1994.  Lisa Powers
underwent a Caesarean section on Aug. 9, 1994, for which she was
billed $3,900 by her physician.  The insurance agreement with
United required that the insured pay 30% of the charges and the
Powerses paid the physician $1,170.  The plaintiffs were unaware
of the pre-existing fee arrangement United had negotiated with
the physician, whereby he had agreed to a total payment of
$2,100.  United paid the difference between what the plaintiffs
had paid and the secret fee schedule the physician had accepted,
resulting in United's paying $930 " 44% of the total rather than
the 70% provided for in the contract.

     The plaintiffs allege that as a result of United's unfair
and deceptive acts, they and the class paid more than the 30%
copayments they were obligated to pay according to their
contracts.  Plaintiffs allege violations of ERISA Section
502(a)(1)(B), 29 U.S.C. Section 1132(a)(1)(B), claims for
benefits; ERISA Section 409(a), 29 U.S.C. Sections1109(a) and
1106(b), breach of fiduciary duty; breach of contract; deceit and
misrepresentation; and unjust enrichment.  Plaintiffs also seek a
declaratory judgment and an accounting.

     The suit alleges that United breached its fiduciary duty to
class members by negotiating discounts with hospitals and health
care providers that applied only to United's portion of the
charges and did not benefit the class members.  Thus, class
members paid amounts in excess of what they were contractually
obligated to pay and United retained the difference, violating
the terms of its own agreements.

     The suit further claims that United has recorded payments
against certain class members' lifetime, annual or procedure
maximums, in excess of what United actually paid, resulting in
restriction of benefits to which certain class members should be
entitled.  In keeping the discounts secret, United allegedly
misled class members and hid the fact that it was using its
fiduciary position for its own exclusive benefit.  As a result of
United's breaches of fiduciary duty, class members ended up
paying millions of dollars more in health care costs than they
were contractually obligated to pay.

     The plaintiffs seek a declaratory judgment, pursuant to
ERISA Section 502(a)(1)(B), 29 U.S.C. Section 1132(a)(1)(B), as
to their entitlement to benefits of discounts negotiated and
obtained by United.  They also seek certification of class
status, an accounting for damages and economic harm allegedly
caused by United, award of damages for overpayment of insurance
copayments, award of prejudgment, and post-judgment interest, and
award of reasonable attorneys' fees.

     The plaintiffs are represented by Norman Berman, Glen
DeValerio and Jeffrey C. Block of Berman, DeValerio & Pease in
Boston.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

AR BLUE CROSS ACCUSED OF CHEATING POLICYHOLDERS OUT OF DISCOUNTS

     Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield is cheating policy
holders by not passing along discounts it negotiates with
hospitals, clinics and other health care providers, contend two
policyholders in a class action filed Nov. 15 in federal court in
Little Rock.  Hause et al. v. Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue
Shield, No. LR-C-95-729 (ED AR).

     The suit contends that policyholders and others covered
under plans governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 are forced to pay disproportionate shares of hospital
costs because the mutual insurance company negotiates discounts
for itself but not for policyholders.  As a result, the suit
contends, policyholders pay their copayment share on the basis of
the full hospital bill while the company pays only a discounted
share of the bill.

     Among other allegations, the plaintiffs assert the company
violates the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act, as well as ERISA and its fiduciary
duties.  The plaintiffs also contend the company was guilty of
misrepresentation to policyholders and concealed "its tortious,
contract-breaching, statutorily prohibited, inequitable conduct
from the class," which is defined as "all individuals who are or
were participants, insureds/certificate holders under sickness
and accident benefit plans maintained by an employer or employee
organization constituting employee welfare benefit plans covered
by ERISA (within the meaning of ERISA Section 3(1) and 4,
29 U.S.C. Sections 1002(1) and 1003), which plans were written,
underwritten or administered" by the company.

     The suit asserts that under a typical plan, the company
would cover 80% of the costs, and the policyholder would pay 20%.
The plaintiffs allege that the company would negotiate discounts
with hospitals and clinics but that the discounts would not apply
to the insureds' copayments, meaning that policyholders would pay
the full 20% of the total bill, but the company would pay only
80% of the negotiated, discounted portion it covered.  This had
the effect of increasing the burden on the policyholders beyond
the 20% they were obliged to pay, the suit contends.

     The plaintiffs allege that similar systems are used in at
least 13 other states and the District of Columbia.  However,
they are not seeking to represent possible class members.

     Arkansas Blue Cross breached its fiduciary duties, assert
the plaintiffs, because it negotiated discounts for itself but
not the beneficiaries; as a result, it paid less than the
proportion of the actual bill it contracted to pay.  The suit
also contends that the company kept the discounts secret from the
beneficiaries, and recorded the shares paid by beneficiaries
against their "lifetime maximums or procedure maximums in excess
of what Arkansas Blue Cross paid."

     The plaintiffs further allege that the company violated the
RICO Act by receiving "income derived directly or indirectly from
a pattern of racketeering activity."

     The suit asks the court to declare a class action as soon as
possible, award compensatory damages based on the alleged
overpayments by policyholders because of the discounts, triple
damages under the RICO allegation, prejudgment interest, a full
accounting of the unwarranted profits and disgorgement of those
profits, and an injunction requiring the company to disclose the
discounts and pass along the benefits to the beneficiaries.

     The plaintiffs are represented by David S. Mitchell of the
Little Rock firm of McHenry and Mitchell and by Jay Youngdahl of
the firm of Youngdahl and Sadin of Albuquerque.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

U.S. SUP. CT. DENIES REVIEW OF HMO VICARIOUS LIABILITY CLAIM

     The U.S. Supreme Court on Dec. 4 denied the petition of a
health maintenance organization seeking preemption of the
vicarious malpractice claim filed against it by two of its
subscribers.  U.S. Healthcare, Inc. et al. v. Dukes et al.,
No. 95-442 (U.S.).

     In its Sept. 15 petition for writ of certiorari, U.S.
Healthcare, Inc. (USHC) asserted that a panel of the Third
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals erred in remanding the plaintiffs'
vicarious malpractice action against it to state court.  USHC
argued that removal to federal court was required under the
complete preemption doctrine of the Employee Retirement and
Income Security Act.

     In their Oct. 11 response brief, the respondents argued that
remand to state court was proper because their complaint was
based on only state law negligence, malpractice and agency
theories.

     The litigation arose after the deaths of two individuals
being cared for by USHC network providers.  One, Darryl Dukes,
died with a highly elevated blood sugar level that allegedly
could have been diagnosed with a timely blood test.  The other
was the stillborn infant daughter of USHC subscriber Linda
Visconti.  Visconti developed symptoms of preeclampsia during
pregnancy, but her obstetrician allegedly did not react to those
symptoms.

     Both plaintiffs brought medical malpractice suits against
the various providers involved.  They also alleged medical
malpractice against USHC under ostensible and/or actual agency
theory.  The actions were removed to federal district court in
Philadelphia on the motion of USHC.

     The district court subsequently dismissed both claims
against on the basis that they were "related to" an ERISA plan
and thus were preempted by ERISA.

     The Third Circuit reversed the district court's dismissal of
the claims against USHC and remanded them to state court.  The
panel said that preemption hinged on whether the claims were
filed "to recover benefits due...under the terms of [the] plan,
to enforce...rights under the terms of the plan, or to
clarify...rights to future benefits under the terms of the plan."
The panel ruled that the claims were filed strictly over the
quality of the health care received under the plan and thus fell
into none of these categories.

               Dukes and Visconti were represented by Attarah B. Feenane
and Stephen C. Josel of Stephen C. Josel and Associates, P.C.,
Philadelphia.  U.S. Healthcare was represented by John T. Kelley
of Kelley, Wardel & Craig, Haddonfield, NJ, and David F. Simon of
its corporate legal staff.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

PETITIONER SAYS ERISA AUTHORIZES INJUNCTIONS OF STATE COURT
ACTIONS

     An employee welfare plan fiduciary in a Nov. 27 petition for
writ of certiorari claimed that the courts below erred in
declining to enjoin the Commonwealth of Virginia from subjecting
the plan to its statutory and regulatory requirements.  Employers
Resource Management Co., Inc. et al. v. Shannon et al., No. 95-
823 (U.S.).

     In its brief in opposition filed Dec. 19, the Commonwealth
argued that the petitioners' stance "would place state insurance
regulations into turmoil, and would effectively jettison
fundamental principles of federalism and comity."

     Employers Resource Management Co. (ERM) provides "co-
employment" services to client employers in 13 states.  As part
of its agreements with the client employers, ERM assumes
responsibility for employee payroll and benefits in return for
control over employee training, performance, discipline and other
areas.  ERM maintains an employee benefit plan that provides
medical, dental, accidental death and dismemberment, and
occupational injury benefits and others for its "co-employees."

     The Commonwealth of Virginia, through its State Corporation
Commission and Commissioner of Insurance, notified ERM that it
intended to move to enjoin ERM from operating in Virginia on the
basis that ERM's benefit plan was a multiemployer welfare
arrangement (MEWA) subject to Virginia's insurance laws and
regulations.  ERM had apparently failed to obtain the license to
operate required by the Commonwealth.  ERM filed its own suit in
federal district court, seeking to enjoin the Commonwealth from
taking that action.  In its action, ERM argued that its plan was
an employee welfare benefit plan under ERISA and was not a MEWA.
ERM contended that the federal courts had the jurisdiction to
enjoin any state action in violation of ERISA.

     The Commonwealth responded to ERM's action with a motion to
dismiss, arguing that (1) the injunctive relief sought by ERM was
barred by the Anti-Injunction Act, 28 U.S.C. Section 2283;
(2) the district court must abstain, pursuant to Younger v.
Harris, 401 U.S. 37 (1971), from exercising its jurisdiction; and
(3) ERM's plan was a MEWA subject to its laws and regulations.

     On Nov. 22, 1994, the district court granted the
Commonwealth's motion to dismiss.  While it did not reach the
merits of ERM's argument that its employee benefit plan is an
ERISA plan, the district court did rule that ERM did not make a
"facially conclusive" ERISA preemption claim.  It also ruled that
ERM's claim for injunctive and declaratory relief was barred by
the Younger abstention doctrine.

     That decision was affirmed by a panel of the Fourth Circuit
U.S. Court of Appeals on Sept. 19, 1995.  The Fourth Circuit
panel said that "[w]hile we appreciate that Congress intended for
ERISA to operate primarily in the federal sphere, we do not
believe that ERISA created the type of 'unique' federal right or
remedy [that qualifies as an exception to the Anti-Injunction
Act]."  The panel also rejected ERM's claim that "extraordinary
circumstances" existed warranting bypass of the Younger
abstention doctrine.

     In its petition for writ of certiorari, ERM pointed to a
conflict among the circuits as to "whether ERISA is a statute in
which Congress has 'expressly authorized' the federal courts to
enjoin state court proceedings within the meaning of the Anti-
Injunction Act."  ERM cited as an example the decision in General
Motors Corp. v. Buha, 623 F.2d 455 (1980), wherein the Sixth
Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals concluded that federal courts were
not barred from enjoining state court proceedings violating
ERISA's preemption provisions.  U.S. Supreme Court review could
resolve this conflict, said ERM.

     Also subject to resolution, said ERM, is the apparent
conflict among earlier U.S. Supreme Court decisions on the
question of "whether federal courts have the power under the
Anti-Injunction Act to enjoin state court proceedings involving
matters over which Congress has conferred exclusive jurisdiction
upon the federal courts."  ERM cited to Capital Service, Inc. et
al. v. NLRB, 347 U.S. 501 (1954), as teaching that federal
agencies with exclusive jurisdiction over a class of claims may
enjoin state actions that tend to invade that jurisdiction.  On
the other side, ERM cited to the lead opinion in Vendo Co. v.
Lektro-Vend Corp., 433 U.S. 623 (1977), wherein exclusive
jurisdiction under the Clayton Act did not support a stay in
state court proceedings.

     Finally, ERM asserted that the district court erred in
finding abstention mandated under Younger.  In its petition, ERM
stated, "ERISA, among all of the federal statutes, makes one of
the most compelling cases for federal courts to refuse to abstain
on Younger grounds.  ERISA preemption is a class of 'field
preemption' which has been categorized as 'super preemption,'
displacing virtually all state laws from the field of employee
benefit plans, even state laws which are fully consonant with
ERISA.  Congress has coupled ERISA's expansive preemption with a
grant to the federal courts of exclusive jurisdiction over
equitable suits to enjoin violations of ERISA or enforce its
provisions, which, in effect, is a manifestation of Congress'
intention to have preemption claims resolved by federal courts
rather than the state courts."
               In its brief in opposition, the Commonwealth argued that the
petitioners incorrectly contended "that ERISA's preemptive effect
wholly deprives state courts of the ability to determine their
own jurisdiction in an area expressly left to the states by
Congress in the McCarran-Ferguson Act."

     The Commonwealth said that the federal courts "should not
interfere with the state enforcement proceedings pending in the
Virginia court, which [is] fully capable of determining, and
which should determine, both ERM's status as a MEWA under
Virginia law and whether such proceedings had been preempted by
Congress under ERISA."  As a result, it maintained that the
district court and the Fourth Circuit panel correctly ruled that
the Anti-Injunction Act and the Younger abstention principles
compelled them to avoid interfering with the state proceedings.

     Finally, the Commonwealth argued that ERISA does not meet
the two-prong test for an "expressly authorized" exception to the
Anti-Injunction Act as specified in Mitchum v. Foster, 407 U.S.
225, 238 (1972).  ERISA does not "create the type of uniquely
federal right considered in Mitchum," said the Commonwealth, nor
does it "expressly authorize or its legislative history
contemplate injunctions against state court proceedings."

     Employers Resource Management Co., Inc. is represented by
Allan J. Graf of Farmer & Ridley, Los Angeles, Robert W. Ridley,
of counsel.  The Commonwealth is represented by Patrick H.
Cantilo, Randolph N. Wisener, and Steven E. Adkins of Cantilo,
Maisel & Hubbard, L.L.P., Austin; and by Anthony Gambardella,
General Counsel; Peter B. Smith, Senior Counsel; and Michael D.
Thomas, Associate General Counsel of the Virginia State
Corporation Commission, Richmond.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

6TH CIRCUIT: CARDIAC SURGEON FAILED TO SHOW CONCERTED ACTION

     The Sixth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals in an unpublished
Nov. 22 decision upheld summary judgment against a cardiac
surgeon who filed a Sherman Act complaint against a hospital and
a number of cardiologists.  Schwartz et al. v. Aultman Health
Services Association d/b/a Aultman Hospital et al., No. 94-3967
(6th Cir.).

     The court found insufficient evidence to support claims of
conspiracy and monopoly stemming from the physicians' refusal to
refer patients to him for surgery.

     Richard Schwartz, a cardiothoracic surgeon, had privileges
at Aultman Hospital.  He failed the thoracic surgery board exam
three times, then stopped performing cardiac surgery from 1990 to
1992.  After he decided to resume surgery, Aultman Hospital
required him to undergo further training before granting
temporary privileges.  Even when his privileges were restored,
the defendant cardiologists allegedly did not refer patients to
him.

     Schwartz's Sherman Act complaint in the Northern District of
Ohio alleged a conspiracy among the cardiologists and hospital to
restrain trade and a monopoly or attempted monopoly of the
relevant market for cardiac surgery.  Judge Ann Aldrich granted a
defense motion for summary judgment.

     Affirming in a per curiam opinion, the Sixth Circuit stated
that there was no direct evidence of a conspiracy, nor was there
circumstantial evidence of a conspiracy in restraint of trade.
None of the defendants competed with Schwartz for cardiac surgery
cases, and Aultman Hospital, in fact, lost revenue when patients
were sent to surgeons elsewhere.  It also said the purported
conspiracy makes no practical sense and noted the cardiologists
received no referral fee and, therefore, had no financial reason
to prefer other surgeons over Schwartz.

     The court rejected the monopolization claim due to the lack
of evidence of concerted action.  It said there was no attempted
monopolization because the defendants were not Schwartz's
competitors and were not motivated by incentives that would show
an intent to monopolize or to destroy competition.  Nor was there
data defining a relevant geographic market to support his claim
for actual monopolization, it said.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LAW LITIGATION REPORTER via NewsNet
January 17, 1996

DISCOVERY CONTINUES IN PRIVACY SUIT AGAINST INDIANA HOSPITAL

     A July 1996 trial date is set in an HIV-positive man's
confidentiality suit against an Evansville, IN, hospital where he
claims the failure of emergency room personnel to use universal
precautions in treating him resulted in the disclosure of his HIV
status to others and the loss of his job when his employer heard
the news.  Conway v. St. Mary's Medical Center et al., No. 82D03-
9503-CT-637 (IN Super. Ct., Vanderburgh Cty).

     Although an Americans With Disabilities Act-based suit over
plaintiff Larry Conway's firing from an Evansville restaurant
settled in October for $25,000, his personal suit against St.
Mary's Medical Center and two nurses there continues and is now
in discovery.

     Conway says that because of emergency room nurse Donna
Elder's failure to use proper precautions in treating the hand he
cut severely while at work in 1993, he warned her of his HIV
status and she refused to provide him with continued treatment.
His suit alleges that he was sent to a patient waiting room where
nursing supervisor Robin Zeibell soon told him, in earshot of
others, that he would have to submit to HIV and hepatitis B
testing before he could be treated.  Because of his need for
immediate medical attention, Conway says he submitted to the
tests.

               The suit says because Conway's HIV infection was noted on
his medical chart, "one or more" St. Mary's employees observed
the entry and told him that a copy of the record would be sent to
his employer, "The Pub" restaurant.  Upon learning of his HIV
status, the restaurant effectively terminated Conway by failing
to schedule him for work hours.

     Conway's suit says St. Mary's was negligent in the hiring,
training and retention of Elder and Zeibell, and that the
plaintiff's privacy rights were violated under the Indiana
Communicable Disease Confidentiality Law (IN Code 16-41-8-1).

     The hospital has denied violating Conway's privacy rights
and failed in an attempt to have the case reviewed by a medical
review panel under the claim that the complaint sounded in
medical malpractice.

     Conway is represented by Paul Chase and Sandra Gosling of
the Indiana HIV Advocacy Program and John Jay Boyce of Legal
Services Organization of Indiana's HIV/AIDS Legal Project.  All
are located in Indianapolis.  Patrick A. Shoulders of Ziemer,
Stayman, Weitzel & Shoulders in Evansville represents the
defendants.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-19</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-225</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh22.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023441 text/html 57866
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:32:04 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:10 GMT
Content-length: 57677
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh22.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet <BR>
NOVEMBER 20, 1991<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>President Vetoes HHS Funding Bill</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(366 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>House Set To Block Medicaid Rules As White House Negotiations Drag</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(480 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Self-Insured Tax Credit Could Expire</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(270 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>No Hill Override Expected On Medicare Physician Fee Plan</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(512 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Disease Prevention Services Bill Readied For House Consideration</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(153 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>House VA Panel Backs Drug Discount Bill</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(170 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>Democrats Call Off Health Reform Vote, Mitchell Scrambles for&nbsp;Support</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(329 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>Health Professions, Prevention Bills Travel On Senate Fast Track</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(155 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>Cohen, Pryor Propose DME Reforms</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(181 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>HCFA Needs More Enforcement Authority Over Medicare HMOs</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(198 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>LEGISLATIVE SUMMARIES</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>S.1933</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(83 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>Health Professions Education</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1279 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>Nurse Training</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(199 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>H.R.3508</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(22 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>Health Professions Amendments</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1846 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>Nurse Education</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1229 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>NEW BILLS IN CONGRESS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>Following is a summary of health-related bills introduced in the</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(39 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>HOUSE BILLS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(153 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><LI>SENATE BILLS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(234 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

President Vetoes HHS Funding Bill

As promised, President Bush Nov. 19 vetoed the fiscal 1992 HHS
appropriations bill (H.R.2707) because of its provision overturning
1988 regulations barring abortion counseling at federally funded
family planning clinics. A quick vote to override the veto was
defeated Nov. 19, 276 to 156, or 12 votes short of the needed two-
thirds majority. "I will sign a bill that does not include language
that prohibits implementation of the abortion counseling and
referral rule," Bush said in his veto message. The President made it
clear that his argument with Congress is over abortion. "I have
informed the Congress on numerous occasions that. . .I would veto
any legislation that would entangle Title X with abortion." Title X of
the Public Health Service Act authorizes funds for family planning
clinics and bars provision of abortions. In 1988, HHS issued rules
prohibiting Title X clinics from referring patients to abortion
clinics; in May, the Supreme Court found the rules constitutional. A
bipartisan team of legislators amended the HHS funding bill to block
implementation of the rules until Oct. 1, 1992. In his message, Bush
says the rules do not inhibit the doctor/patient relationship and
allow women to receive "complete medical information." Speaking on
the Senate floor shortly after Bush's veto was received, Sen. Edward
Kennedy (D-MA) sharply criticized the President. "Abortion for
women is not the issue -- free speech for doctors is. The White
House is pandering to the right wing, and their position is
indefensible," Kennedy said. Twenty members of the House
Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues urged an veto override in a
Nov. 18 letter members of the House. "This is an unconscionable
intrusion on the right of free speech, on the right of health
professionals to advise their patients, and on the right of women to
make an informed decision," the letter read.

In 1992, Congress will take another shot at overturning the regs as
part of a Title X reauthorization. The House may try to vote on its
version (H.R.3090) before adjourning; the Senate already has
approved a freestanding bill (S.323) to overturn the ban. But final
votes wouldn't occur until 1992, moving the fight closer to the
election.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

House Set To Block Medicaid Rules As White House Negotiations Drag

Congress appears poised to enact a short-term delay in Bush
Administration regulations limiting states' Medicaid fundraising.
With negotiations between the White House and the nation's
governors dragging, lawmakers seem determined to pass a bill
delaying an Administration bid to ban state use of provider tax
revenues to gain federal matching dollars. The question now is for
how long? A House bill (H.R.3595) scheduled for a Nov. 19 floor vote
would hold off the regulations until Sept. 30, 1992. That would
prompt a veto by President Bush, says HCFA Administrator Gail
Wilensky. The House is expected to approve the bill but may not have
the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto. Senators are
waiting for the House to act before moving forward. Finance
Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX) may push for a shorter
moratorium, perhaps until April or July. That would allow for
continued negotiations while blocking states from creating new
programs in the interim. HCFA and the National Governors' Assn.
(NGA) staff have negotiated a tentative agreement that would
eliminate use of "voluntary" donations by hospitals and others and
limit use of provider taxes to 22 percent of each state's Medicaid
budget. But that plan appears to be gaining little support from
individual states. The deal would have to be ratified by Congress,
which plans to adjourn by Thanksgiving. With time running out,
Wilensky says she would favor a short term moratorium that also
would block states from starting new programs. Otherwise, "the
short-term federal exposure to increased Medicaid spending will be
virtually unlimited," she says. Steps should be "taken now to revise
our approach to donations and taxes," she told the Finance
Committee Nov. 19. Bentsen says HCFA should "be prepared to freeze
frame the issue" so negotiators can spend the next weeks working
toward a "reasonable" deal.

A key sticking point in the negotiations is state designation of
disproportionate share hospitals. HCFA wants to limit states' ability
to choose those hospitals. Some states are giving all of their acute
care hospitals that status and paying the higher rates with income
derived from provider taxes. HCFA and the NGA have suggested
limiting the size of payment increases to 11-to-12.5 percent. But
hospital groups are threatening to go to court if any limits are
included. A coalition of 61 groups representing hospitals, children,
and labor are urging lawmakers to block the regulations. The
governors efforts are "well intentioned," says National Assn. of
Public Hospitals President Larry Gage but the compromise is "ill
conceived and unacceptable." NAPH filed suit Nov. 14 to try to
declare the regulations illegal. Alabama also has filed suit. But
Texas Gov. Ann Richards told the Finance Committee Nov. 19 that
most states would be willing to accept a cap on disproportionate
share payments if HCFA gives states flexibility "to spend the money
in the way that works best."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Self-Insured Tax Credit Could Expire

The 25 percent health insurance tax deduction for self-employed
workers appears likely to expire at the end of 1991 but may be
resurrected in 1992. The credit, which was created in 1986, was
extended in 1990 for one year and is due to expire Dec. 31. Sen. John
Danforth (R-MO) and Rep. Frank Guarini (D-NJ) have offered
legislation (S.1950, H.R.3752) to extend the credit for one year, but
sources say it is unlikely Congress will act before adjourning for
1991. Also due to expire: a 20 percent tax credit for research and
development and a 5 percent tax credit for orphan drug development.
Danforth and Guarini also would extend those for one year. But
extension of the expiring tax breaks would cost the government
about $5 billion over the next five years, a move that would bust the
budget. House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski
(D-IL) also is concerned that a small tax bill would become a
"Christmas tree" on which to hang other tax breaks. Senate Finance
Committee Chief Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX) predicts the credit will be
extended retroactively if a free standing bill fails to pass.
Individuals and corporations wouldn't be affected by the delay since
they still get a writeoff for 1991. Hoping to pull those nails from
the coffin, 76 Senators sent a Nov. 14 letter to Senate leaders
George Mitchell (D-ME) and Robert Dole (R-KS), saying they will
"oppose any amendment to a bill which extends these 12 expiring tax
provisions." Bentsen and Rostenkowski recently proposed expanding
the credit for the self-insured from 25 percent to 100 percent.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

No Hill Override Expected On Medicare Physician Fee Plan

Congress won't try to override HCFA's decision to reduce 1992
Medicare physician fees to offset an expected surge in the volume of
services provided the elderly and disabled. On Nov. 15, HCFA
announced the final terms of the fee schedule, which kick in Jan. 1.
As expected, the agency decided to reduce fees paid under that
schedule by 6.5 percent in expectation of a 3 percent rise in volume.
Doctors have been protesting the so-called behavioral offset for
months but despite sympathetic rhetoric, lawmakers don't appear to
have an interest in fighting HCFA. Under the rules, which HCFA plans
to publish this week in the Federal Register, fees paid for primary
care services and to rural doctors will rise while payments to
surgeons and other specialists will decrease. A fight with Congress
was avoided when HCFA agreed in August to eliminate an
asymmetrical transition to the new schedule that would have
resulted in lower fees (HLeg. 8/28/91). More than 300 members of
the House had cosponsored a bill (H.R.3070) by Rep. Pete Stark (D-
CA), chairman of the House Ways & Means Health Subcommittee, to
override that proposal. Nearly 30 members of the Senate had signed
a companion measure (S.1810) by Jay Rockefeller (D-WV). While the
Stark-Rockefeller proposal also would have blocked the behavioral
offset, lawmakers were more concerned with the cumulative effect
of the proposed rules. In the final plan, HCFA Administrator Gail
Wilensky says fees will be 13.2 percent higher than those included
in the earlier version. Wilensky argues that the behavioral offset --
which she now calls a baseline adjustment -- is needed to keep the
new system budget neutral. The 1989 law creating the schedule
requires the program to cost no more and no less than the old
system.

By eliminating the skewed transition, HCFA was able to raise the
conversion factor -- which translates the relative value scale (RVS)
into dollars -- from $26.87 in the June proposed rules to $31 in the
final version. Counting inflation, Wilensky says overall payments to
physicians will rise from $27.3 billion in 1991 to $47.5 billion in
1996. The 74 percent jump in physician spending over the next five
years also encompasses inflation, the aging of the population, and
introduction of new technology. But despite that cumulative rise, in
1992 many doctors will see their fees fall. Reductions include a 14
percent cut for thoracic surgeons, an 11 percent reduction for
anesthesiologists and ophthalmologists, and a 10 percent chop for
gastroenterologists, radiologists, pathologists and neurosurgeons.
Fees will rise sharply for primary care specialists including general
practitioners, who will get a 17 percent increase, family
practitioners, 15 percent, and optometrists, who will see a 20
percent hike. To buffer the effects of the behavioral offset,
Wilensky has made other changes to the rules to help specific
specialties. HCFA has agreed to temporarily let anesthesiologists
count the actual time they spend with a patient until a better coding
system is developed and to count only services provided the day
before surgery rather than 30 days when figuring global surgical
fees.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Disease Prevention Services Bill Readied For House Consideration

A new private nonprofit foundation would be created to supplement
disease prevention efforts by the Centers for Disease Control under
a bill (H.R.3635) moving toward the House floor. Approved Nov. 15 by
the House Commerce Committee, the bill would extend for five years
the preventive health services block grant at $135 million for fiscal
1992 and "such sums as necessary" through FY96. It also would
authorize use of part of the preventive block grants for states to
develop trauma care systems. The plan by Commerce Health
Subcommittee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) also would require
states to submit by Apr. 1, 1992, a list of health goals for the year
2000, and authorizes $10 million for that effort. A Senate
companion bill (S.1912) introduced Nov. 4 by Peter Domenici (R-NM),
the ranking minority member of the Budget Committee, is pending in
the Finance Committee. No action is expected until after recess.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

House VA Panel Backs Drug Discount Bill

Legislation to roll back prescription drug prices paid by veterans'
hospitals won approval Nov. 13 from the House Veterans' Affairs
Committee. The bill (H.R.2890), would set prices at the level paid on
Sept. 1, 1990, in order to negate a year of sharp price increases. It
also would limit annual price hikes of veterans' medical inflation
rates. The legislation comes a year after Congress required drug
makers to give Medicaid their "best price." That triggered price hikes
to Veterans Administration (VA) facilities and others who had been
receiving deep discounts. The House bill, by Veterans' Committee
Chairman Sonny Montgomery (D-MS) would exempt VA from
calculation of Medicaid prices. That concerns members of the House
Commerce Committee who worry that exempting the VA will raise
drug prices for Medicaid and various public health clinics. Commerce
Committee member Ron Wyden (D-OR) plans to amend Montgomery's
bill to roll back drug prices for all government buyers. Montgomery
is said to be receptive "as long as it doesn't leave the VA
vulnerable."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Democrats Call Off Health Reform Vote, Mitchell Scrambles for
Support

Senate Democrats were forced to call off a planned vote on their
health reform plan because of continued disagreement among party
members. Human Resources Committee Chairman Edward Kennedy (D-
MA) hoped to report the bill (S.1227) out of his committee Nov. 14
but was ordered to cancel the session by Majority Leader George
Mitchell (D-ME), the bill's chief sponsor. Mitchell still is trying to
gain support for the plan from Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd
Bentsen (D-TX), who balks at the proposal to mandate employer-paid
insurance. Kennedy had rewritten the bill to circumvent Finance, but
Mitchell didn't like that tactic. Instead, the vote was "postponed"
until Jan. 22, the first scheduled day of the Senate's 1992 session.
Mitchell meanwhile plans to conduct five field hearings in December
and early January "to hear from individual Americans and businesses
that have been bankrupted by the current system." The hearings will
be held in Tampa FL, Atlanta GA, Cleveland OH, Detroit MI, and Denver
CO. Mitchell's orders didn't sit well with Democrats on the panel who
want to build on the momentum created by the Nov. 5 election of
Pennsylvania Sen. Harris Wofford, who ran on a health reform
platform. Republicans label Mitchell's hearings "a show designed to
make Republicans look bad." "If we don't work together we'll end up
with a partisan piece of junk," said the panel's senior GOP member
Orrin Hatch (R-UT).

House Democrats appear no closer to agreement than their Senate
counterparts. After failing to develop a consensus behind one
proposal, the House Democratic Caucus last week backed a
resolution to support legislation that would guarantee universal
health care. The resolution is supposed to "keep the process moving
along," says an aide to Caucus Chairman Steny Hoyer (D-MD). Earlier
this summer, House Speaker Thomas Foley (D-WA) asked his senior
committee chairmen to draft a reform plan. So far there is little
agreement and Ways & Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D-IL)
introduced his own bill (H.R.3626).




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Health Professions, Prevention Bills Travel On Senate Fast Track

Congress hopes to quickly complete work on a bill to reauthorize aid
to medical and nursing students and the schools that train them
along with another measure to continue several disease prevention
programs. Introduced by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA), the bills were
approved a week later by the Human Resources Committee. The first
(S.1933) would authorize $525 million in fiscal 1992, $555 million
in FY93, $610 million in FY94, $636 million in FY95, and $660
million in FY96 to support training of nurses, nurse midwives, nurse
anesthetists, physician assistants, and primary care physicians. The
measure also would require grantees to provide instruction on
universal precautions and infection control for HIV transmission.
The second (S.1944) would authorize $275 million in FY92 and "such
sums as necessary" for FY93-96 to provide grants for breast and
cervical screening, hypertension and cholesterol screening, health
education, emergency medical technician training, rodent control,
water fluoridation, and dental health.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Cohen, Pryor Propose DME Reforms

The number of Medicare carriers handling claims for durable medical
equipment (DME) would be reduced from 34 to five under a bill by
Sens. William Cohen (R-ME) and David Pryor (D-AR). An investigation
by Cohen's staff of the Senate Aging Committee uncovered as much
as $200 million in annual fraud and abuse in Medicare's DME program.
The bill (S.1988) is similar to measures (S.1736, H.R.2534) offered
by Sen. Jim Sasser (D-TN) and Rep. Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) earlier
this year (HLeg. 9/11/91). The reforms are supported by the National
Assn. of Medical Equipment Suppliers (NAMES). The Cohen/Pryor bill
also would prevent DME suppliers from shopping for the best-paying
carrier by establishing uniform coverage and utilization criteria and
requiring HHS to set requirements for issuing and renewing provider
numbers. The Senate bills primarily address fraud and abuse in the
DME system, while the House bill also tries to solve some of
administrative problems facing carriers, says Corrine Parver, NAMES
president. The bills will probably not see action before Congress'
recess but could be a 1992 priority.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

HCFA Needs More Enforcement Authority Over Medicare HMOs

HCFA should be given broader authority to penalize Medicare HMOs
that fail to comply with quality standards, says the General
Accounting Office. In Nov. 15 testimony to the House Commerce
Health Subcommittee, GAO said its investigation into a Florida HMO
revealed that HCFA has "not been effective in getting certain HMOs
to take corrective actions promptly." The GAO investigation of
Humana Inc. found abuses of federal standards of marketing, claims
payment, processing of beneficiary appeals, and implementation of
an internal quality assurance system. Humana enrolls about 15
percent of the 1.3 million Medicare HMO members. In 1987, following
problems with the previous owners of the Humana plan, Congress
gave HCFA the power to levy fines and short suspensions against
HMOs that violate federal rules. Since then, HCFA has terminated
two contractors from Medicare. HCFA should be allowed to suspend
Medicare enrollments when HMOs fail to respond to violations
notices, says GAO. HCFA Administrator Gail Wilensky defended the
agency's record, pointing to development of a "strengthened and
streamlined enforcement" process. Wilensky also cited publication
of a July 22 proposed rule to implement intermediate sanctions and
civil monetary penalty authority, which defined eight violations for
which sanctions can be imposed.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

S.1933

S.1933
Health Professions Training and Nurse Education Improvement and
Reauthorization Act as reported by the Senate Human Resources
Committee Nov. 7, 1991

Sen. Kennedy (D-MA) has introduced, and the Labor and Human
Resources Committee has approved, legislation to extend and amend
the federal programs of support for training of health professionals,
allied health professionals, and nurses. The bill emphasizes the
training of primary care physicians, nurse practitioners, nurse
midwives, nurse anesthetists, and allied health professionals in
fields in which there are shortages.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Health Professions Education

MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS: Graduate programs in social work that
offer a training concentration in health or mental health care and
graduate programs that provide training in a concentration leading
to a graduate degree in marriage and family therapy would be
included among the programs for which support could be provided.

A Subcommittee on Allied Health would be established to the
National Advisory Council on Health Professions Education. The
Subcommittee would advise with respect to a broad range of issues
relating to allied health education and placement.

Prohibitions against discrimination in administration of the program
would be expanded. Health professions data collection requirements
would be expanded to include information pertaining to health
profession shortage areas.

GRANT PRIORITY: In awarding grants under the health professions
program and under the nurse education program, the HHS Secretary
would give priority to entities with programs designed to help meet
the National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Objectives
established for the year 2000 and that either have a high permanent
rate for placing graduates in settings to serve underserved
populations or provide for at least four of six specified activities
designed to encourage graduates to practice in such areas.

Preference in the awarding of competitive grants to health
professions schools would be given to schools that can demonstrate
that at least 20 percent of their graduates practice in shortage
areas or that the number of graduates practicing in such areas has
increased by at least 50 percent over that for the previous two-year
period.

STUDENT ASSISTANCE: Funding for the federal student loan insurance
program would be provided through fiscal 1996. Certain changes
would be made with regard to the period to begin repaying loans and
the maximum interest that could be charged for such loans. Health
professions education institutions would have to agree to assist in
the collection of delinquent loan payments by providing information
concerning the borrower to the Secretary and to lenders.

The Secretary would establish performance standards and fees to be
paid by lenders and loan holders for the servicing of loans and for
the processing of default claims. The bill would redefine the term
"default rate." The Secretary would assess a risk-based premium on
an eligible borrower and, if required, an eligible institution based on
the default rate of the institution. For institutions with default
rates below 5 percent, the borrower would be assessed 6 percent of
the loan amount.

If the default rate of the institution is between 5 percent and 15
percent, the borrower would be assessed a premium of 10 percent
and the institution a premium of 5 percent. If the institution's
default rate is between 15 percent and 25 percent, the borrower and
the institution each would be assessed a premium of 10 percent of
the loan amount. Other procedural provisions are set out.

There would be no statute of limitations with regard to loan
repayment obligations. An annual report concerning default rates
would be required for each institution that participates in loan
programs as well as for each lender and for each loan holder. A list
of borrowers who are in default would be compiled and published in
the Federal Register.

The Secretary would promulgate regulations to ensure that tuition
and fees for borrowers are equal to or less than those for
nonborrowers; to require institutions to submit information
concerning each loan that is made; to allow the withholding of
services from an institution to a borrower who is in default; and to
have lenders offer borrowers a variety of repayment options.
Institutions would be required to conduct workshops for student
borrowers.

The National Health Service Corps would give priority to borrowers
who enter and remain in the primary care fields of general internal
medicine, general pediatrics, and family medicine.

An Office for Health Education Assistance would be created to study
loans and loan defaults, to respond to circumstances that may lead
to defaults, to carry out activities to reduce defaults, and to carry
out other similar activities.

DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM: The bill would establish a direct student
loan demonstration program to examine the viability of such a
program and to determine whether such a program will reduce
default costs and provide loans on more favorable terms and to
determine whether the current Health Education Assistance Loan
authority should be replaced by a direct loan program in which
schools rather than lenders make loans directly to borrowers.

The bill outlines the detailed procedures and conditions that would
apply in creating this direct student loan demonstration program.
The program would involve at least 20 institutions.

OTHER ASSISTANCE AUTHORITIES: The loan repayment program for
allied health personnel would be extended through FY96 as would
authority for scholarships for first year health professions students
of exceptional financial need, the scholarship authority for students
from disadvantaged backgrounds, and the faculty loan repayment
program. The Lister Hill Scholarship Program would be repealed.

SPECIAL PROGRAM GRANTS: Funding would be provided through FY96 to
assist departments of family medicine. Area Health Education Center
(AHEC) agreements would be for six years. Preference in awarding AHEC
grants would be for applicants that would establish new programs.
Priority would go to applicants that establish linkages with a school
of public health if such a school exists in the area. Various other
expansions would be authorized for the AHEC program.

Funding would continue for programs of excellence in health
professions education for minorities; for training, traineeships, and
fellowships in general internal medicine and general pediatrics; for
dentistry residency programs; and for family medicine residency
programs. There would be new authority for assistance for training
in dental public health. Educational assistance to individuals from
disadvantaged backgrounds also would be continued. There would be
a new program of minority faculty development fellowships.
Authority to assist schools that provide the first or last two years
of medical education would be replaced by demonstration grant
authority for the improvement of health professions education and
for the assurance of competency of health personnel. There would be
new authority for chiropractic training and demonstration grants.

Also extended would be assistance for training in preventive
medicine, physician assistant programs, and podiatric medicine
programs. AIDS education and training program authority would be
expanded. Also extended would be authority for geriatric education
centers and geriatric training.

Programs of assistance for projects for schools of public health
would be extended as would various other public health training
authorities.

There would be new grant authority for projects related to allied
health professions with personnel shortages. An extensive listing of
possible project areas is provided. Assistance also would be
authorized for training centers for allied health professions to
provide fellowships to students. The program of traineeships for
advanced training of allied health personnel would be extended and
expanded. A Division of Allied Health would be created.

OTHER PROGRAMS: Changes would be made in the mission of the
Council on Graduate Medical Education to place greater emphasis on
the adequacy of current and future supplies of primary care
physicians, to study the impact of Medicare graduate medical
education funding, and the feasibility of including health promotion
and disease prevention as a part of graduate medical education.

New activities would be required under the rural health training
program with emphasis on research on the processes involved in
health care decisionmaking and development of training models
focusing on disease prevention and health promotion.

An advisory Council on Medical Licensure would be created. It would
advise the Secretary concerning the establishment and operation of
the American Medical Association system for verifying and
maintaining information regarding the qualification of individuals to
practice medicine. The Secretary also would conduct a study of state
licensure procedures for domestic medical graduates as compared to
international medical graduates.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Nurse Training

SPECIAL PROJECTS: Various changes would be made in the special
project authority to emphasize assistance to nurses serving in
shortage areas. The bill would extend the advanced nurse education
programs, the nurse practitioner and nurse midwife programs,
nursing education opportunities for individuals from disadvantaged
backgrounds, traineeships for advanced education of professional
nurses, the nurse anesthetist program, the nurse loan repayment
program, and assistance for undergraduate education of professional
nurses. New authority would provide funds to assist schools of
nursing to support projects to develop resources or strengthen
programs or faculty to address the National Health Objectives for
the year 2000.

A new program would provide fellowships to licensed vocational or
practical nurses, nursing assistants, and other paraprofessional
nursing personnel to assist them in obtaining a professional nursing
education. Such individuals would agree to work in long term care
facilities for a period of time at least equal to the period during
which the individual received assistance.

A new primary care program authority also would be established.
The funds would be used to establish or expand clinical nurse
training sites to provide training in the delivery of primary care in
rural areas or areas within 50 miles of Indian country.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

H.R.3508

H.R.3508
Health Professions Education Amendments
introduced Oct. 3, 1991
by Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA)
referred to the House Commerce Committee




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Health Professions Amendments

The bill would amend and extend various authorities for educational
assistance for schools and students of the health professions. The
bill also would amend and extend the Nurse Training Act.

PRIMARY SERVICES PRIORITY: The bill would add a general provision
to the Public Health Service Act provisions authorizing support for
health professions education providing that in the case of any entity
applying for federal financial assistance under that authority, the
HHS Secretary would give priority to the applicant if a substantial
percentage of the providers who have completed the applicants
program of training in the health or allied health professions are
providing primary health services to a substantial number of
medically underserved individuals or if the applicant has established
policies that may reasonably be expected to result in a substantial
percentage of the program's participants providing their services to
a substantial number of such individuals.

Schools of medicine and osteopathy, in order to qualify for priority
consideration, also would have to have an academic administrative
unit to provide clinical instruction in family medicine and would
have to require, as a condition of receiving a degree, that each
student have had significant clinical training in family medicine by
the end of the third year of the curriculum.

Applicants with residency programs would receive priority in
receiving federal support only if a substantial percentage of the
individuals completing the residency program have had, through
participation in the applicant's program, significant experience in
providing primary health services to medically underserved
individuals or significant experience in providing such services in
ambulatory health facilities.

GRADUATE STUDENT INSURED LOANS: The total principal amount of
new loans and installments paid to borrowers covered by federal
graduate student loan insurance could not exceed $365 million, $425
million, and $475 million respectively for fiscal years 1992-1994.
Currently repayment of loans must begin within twelve months of
completing a program or ceasing to be a participant in a program for
which the loan was made. The bill would allow initial repayment to
begin up to 21 months after the determining event has occurred.

The premium charged by the Secretary for insured loans currently
cannot exceed eight percent. The bill would increase the maximum
allowable premium to 13 percent. Different percentages could be
charged for different health professionals.

The bill would authorize the Secretary to impose on eligible
institutions, eligible lenders, and holders reasonable limits on
default rates for borrowers. If any such limit is exceeded, the
Secretary could suspend, terminate, or otherwise restrict the
authority for students to obtain insured loans from the school or
lender in question or, if it is a holder who exceeds such a limit, for
the holder to purchase insured loans.

The term "default rate" means the percentage constituted by the
ratio of the principal amount of insured loans that are made with
respect to an entity and enter repayment status after Apr. 7, 1987,
and for which amounts have been paid to insurance beneficiaries,
exclusive of any loans for which amounts have been paid as a result
of death or total and permanent disability of the borrowers, and
exclusive of any loans for which amounts have been paid but have
been recovered or are being recovered by the Secretary, to the total
principal amount of insured loans that are made with respect to the
entity and enter repayment status after Apr. 7, 1987.

OFFICE OF DEBT COLLECTION: The bill would establish an Office on Student
Loan Debt Collection. The Director of the Office would coordinate efforts
within the HHS Department and the Department of Justice to recover
payments from health professionals who have defaulted on insured student
loans. In cooperation with the Secretary of Education, the Director would
develop a uniform deferral form or process to ensure coordination in
deferment certification requirements for in-school, residency, and
internship deferments.

The Director would provide advice to eligible lenders, institutions,
and holders of deferrals of the provisions that relate to collection
of the principal and interest on insured loans. The Director would
assist students in avoiding default by making information on loan
deferments, forbearance, and correction of default readily available
and, directly or through the provision of grants and contracts, would
carry out projects to reduce the extent of defaults on insured loans.
The Director annually would report to Congress on the total amounts
recovered and would provide a plan for improving the extent of
recoveries during the year.

NEEDY STUDENTS: Any funds from a student loan fund that are
returned to the Secretary could not be available for any purpose
other than allotment for other student loan funds. The bill would
authorize $9,760,000 for FY92, $11 million for FY93, and $13
million for FY94 for scholarships for first year students of
exceptional need and $17 million for each of FY92 and 1993 for
scholarships and other purposes regarding disadvantaged students.

Current faculty, and anyone who has been on the faculty of a school
during the previous 18 months, would be ineligible for the loan
repayment program regarding service by disadvantaged students on
faculties of health professions schools. Loan repayments under the
program would be reduced from 50 percent a year to 20 percent a
year of the outstanding principal and interest on loans.

FAMILY MEDICINE: The bill would authorize $6,830,000 for FY92 to
assist in the establishment of departments of family medicine.
Authority for this assistance would be repealed as of Oct. 1, 1992.

FUNDING OF SPECIFIC PROGRAMS: The area health education center
authority would be funded at $20 million, $22 million, and $24
million for FY92-94 respectively. The bill would provide $15 million
and $16 million for FY92 and FY93 for programs of excellence in
health professions education for minorities.

The bill would provide $17,260,000, $18.5 million, and $20 million
for FY92-94 respectively for training, traineeships, and fellowships
in internal medicine and general pediatrics. Currently the first two
purposes for which these funds can be utilized are for the planning,
development, and support of residency training programs and
residents in these practice areas. The bill would expand the eligible
programs for these funds to include professional training programs,
including residencies and internships, in these areas for medical and
osteopathy students, interns, residents, or practicing physicians and
financial support for the individuals participating in these programs.

Funding for residency programs in the general practice of dentistry
would be provided at $3,830,000, $4.5 million, and $6 million for
1992-1994. Authorized for family medicine programs would be
$36.1 million, $43 million, and $45 million.

Educational assistance to individuals from disadvantaged
backgrounds would be authorized at $30,820,000 and $31.5 million
for FY92 and FY93. The Secretary would assure that these grants are
equitably distributed geographically and that services of individuals
from disadvantaged backgrounds are equitably allocated among the
various racial and ethnic populations.

The bill recodifies provisions relating to training in preventive
medicine authorizing $1,650,000, $2 million, and $2 million for
1992-1994 respectively, for these activities. Authority to assist
schools which provide the first two or last two years of medical
education and to aid in faculty and curriculum development and
clinical training sites would be deleted.

There would be new authority for health professions research.
Recipients of grants and contracts would conduct research on one or
more of the following: the impact of student indebtedness on
specialty choice and practice location; the impact of minority health
professional programs in majority schools on recruitment,
retention, and practice choices of minority health personnel; the
effects of graduate medical education payments on the distribution
of physician specialties; and the effectiveness and variation of
state licensing authorities in identifying problem providers and
undertaking disciplinary actions. Funding would be authorized at
$1,320,000, $1.5 million, and $1.5 million. The bill also would
authorize $7 million, $8 million, and $10 million for 1992-1994 for
physician assistant projects and $600,000, $750,000, and $750,000
for podiatric physician projects.

AIDS TRAINING: Schools of marriage and family therapy would be added
to those eligible to receive grants to train faculty to teach health
professions students to provide for the health care needs of
individuals with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. Funding for
this general training program would be authorized at $17,020,000, $19
million, and $21 million. For such training at schools of dentistry
the bill would authorize $6 million, $8 million, and $10 million.

MEDICAL SOCIAL WORK: Graduate programs of medical social work
would be added to those eligible for aid to assist individuals from
disadvantaged backgrounds as well as to those which can receive
assistance for training with respect to AIDS.

The term "graduate program in medical social work" is defined to
mean an accredited graduate program which provides training
leading to a graduate degree in social work and which emphasizes
the provision of social services related to health care or mental
health care.

GERIATRIC TRAINING: Current authority to train physicians and
dentists who plan to teach geriatric medicine or dentistry would be
expanded to include optometrists who plan to teach geriatric
optometry.

Currently such programs are for one year. The bill would eliminate
the one year specification. Also currently, with regard to dental
geriatric training programs, training is available to dentists who
are faculty members at schools of dentistry or hospital departments
of dentistry. The bill would amend these eligibility provisions to
make this training available to dentists who have demonstrated a
commitment to an academic career, and who have completed
postdoctoral dental training programs or who have relevant training
or experience.

Funding for geriatric education centers and geriatric training would
be authorized at $13,710,000, $14 million, and $15 million
respectively for FY92-94.

YEAR 2000 HEALTH OBJECTIVES: Current authority for special
projects conducted by schools of public health would be replaced by
authority for special projects by such schools to establish
comprehensive programs of education that are appropriate with
respect to meeting the objectives established by the Secretary for
the health status of the population of the U.S. for the year 2000.
Also authorized would be projects to recruit individuals for
education in health specialties in which an increased number of
practitioners is necessary to meet the year 2000 objectives and to
improve access to community-based health prokbe emphasized in the
awarding of public health traineeships. Under the bill students would
have to be pursuing a course of study in a field the entry into which
is appropriate with respect to meeting the Secretary's health status
objectives for the year 2000.

ALLIED HEALTH: In awarding project grants regarding allied health
personnel the Secretary would give special consideration to unique
needs regarding the supply of physical therapists, occupational
therapists, and clinical laboratory technologists.

Currently recipients of traineeships for advanced training of allied
health personnel must be doctoral students in doctoral programs.
The bill would allow traineeships to postgraduate students in
postgraduate programs. Special consideration to the unique needs
regarding the supply of the above mentioned therapists and
technologists also would be provided with regard to these
traineeships.

HEALTH CARE FOR RURAL AREAS: Schools or programs for marriage
and family therapy would be eligible for grants to improve the
delivery of health services for rural areas.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Nurse Education

SPECIAL PROJECTS: The bill would delete authority for special
projects to provide continuing education for nurses, to demonstrate
improved geriatric training in preventive care, acute care, and long
term care, and to collect the names of health facilities willing to
repay loans for nurses who agree to serve in the facilities. Also
authority to develop curricula for the achievement of baccalaureate
degrees by registered nurses would be replaced by authority for
projects for nursing assistants and other paraprofessional nursing
personnel to become licensed vocational or practical nurses for
nursing facilities.

There are provisions to allow continuation of already funded
projects of the types to be deleted.

ADVANCED NURSE EDUCATION: The bill would delete authority to
provide assistance to maintain programs which lead to masters' and
doctoral degrees and which prepare nurses to serve as
administrators, researchers, or to serve in clinical nurse specialties
determined by the Secretary to require advanced education.
Assistance still would be provided to plan, develop, operate, or
significantly expand such programs but only with regard to programs
that prepare nurses to serve in clinical nurse specialties. No more
than 10 percent of funds appropriated for advanced nurse education
could be used for programs leading to doctoral degrees.

NURSE PRACTITIONERS AND MIDWIVES: Authority to assist
traineeship programs for nurse practitioners and nurse midwives
would be repealed.

PROJECTS FOR DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS: Funding for special
projects for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds would be
authorized at $4 million, $5 million, and $6 million for 1992-1994.

ADVANCED EDUCATION TRAINEESHIPS: Authority for project grants
for nursing school faculty investigations into alternate health care
modalities, nursing interventions that result in positive outcomes
and similar matters would be deleted. The current authority to
provide traineeships for nurses in advanced degree programs would
be expanded to allow traineeships for individuals in these programs.
Only individuals in master's degree programs would be eligible for
these traineeships. Doctoral candidates no longer would be eligible.
Authority to provide these traineeships for programs to train
individuals to serve in and prepare for practice as nurse
administrators, nurse educators, and nurse researchers would be
deleted.

In awarding these traineeships for advanced education special
consideration would be given to programs that provide significant
clinical experience in any of the following: an Indian Health Service
health center; a Native Hawaiian health center; a public hospital; a
migrant or community health center or other nonprofit community
clinic; a nursing facility; a rural health clinic; or a health facility
located in a health professional shortage area determined by the HHS
Secretary to have a critical shortage of nurses.

Funding for advanced nursing education traineeships would be
authorized at $17 million, $19 million, and $21 million with at least
25 percent of appropriated funds to be used for traineeships for
students who are enrolled at least on a half-time basis in programs
that offer a master's degree in nursing and who agree to complete
the requirements for the degree by the end of the academic year in
which the traineeship is provided.

NURSE ANESTHETISTS: The bill would add a provision indicating that
in making grants for nurse anesthetist training grants the Secretary
would give special consideration to applications for traineeship
programs whose participants gain a significant experience in
providing health services at rural hospitals or rural clinics.

The nurse anesthetist program would be funded at $3 million, $4
million, and $5 million respectively for FY92-94.

STUDENT LOAN PROGRAMS: Current law authorizes $5 million a year
for loan repayments for service in facilities such as those referred
to above in the advanced education traineeship provisions. The bill
would authorize $3 million, $4 million, and $5 million for FY92-94
respectively.

OTHER PROVISIONS: The authority for undergraduate scholarships for
nursing students would be ended. The bill also would make schools of
nursing eligible, along with already authorized health professions
schools and schools of allied health, for geriatric training and
related activities. This authority is similar to that which relates
only to schools of nursing and which would be repealed as outlined
above.

LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST STUDY: The Secretary would conduct a
study with respect to the shortage of clinical laboratory
technologists. The purpose of the study would be to determine the
extent of the shortage, determine the causes of the shortage, and
develop recommendations on the manner in which the shortage can
be alleviated.

In developing recommendations the Secretary would consider any
special or unique factors affecting the supply of clinical laboratory
technologists in rural or urban areas and would consider the
effectiveness of any mechanisms that are available for alleviating
the shortage in rural areas, urban areas, or both, including
competency-based examinations as an alternative route for
certification of the competence of individuals to serve as such
technologists, and consider the role of entities that provide such
certification.

MEDICAL LICENSURE ADVISORY COUNCIL: The Secretary would
establish an Advisory Council on Medical Licensure. The Advisory
Council would advise the Secretary regarding the establishment and
operation of the system established by the American Medical
Association for verifying and maintaining information regarding
qualifications of individuals to practice medicine.

The Advisory Council would monitor the operation of the private
verification system and develop recommendations for improvement.
The Council would determine to what extent the system has
expedited and otherwise improved the efficiency and equitable
operation of the process of licensure in one state of individuals who
previously have been licensed in another.

The Council would review the policies and practices of the states in
licensing international medical graduates and in licensing domestic
medical graduates and would consult with appropriate organizations
regarding the establishment of nondiscriminatory policies and
practices of licensing individuals to practice medicine.

The 14-member Advisory Council would consist of a representative
from each of the following; state licensure authorities, practicing
physicians, the private verification system, medical schools, an
organization that tests international medical graduates, an
organization that tests graduates of U.S. medical schools, a native of
the U.S. who attended a U.S. medical school, an international medical
school graduate from a coalition of such graduates as well as
international medical school graduates to represent schools from
southern or eastern Asia; Europe, Australia or New Zealand; a
subsaharan African country; and a Latin American or Caribbean
country, and a native of the U.S. who is an international medical
school graduate.

During FY96 the Secretary would determine whether the private
verification system is operating with a reasonable degree of
efficiency and whether the policies and practices of the system are
nondiscriminatory.

If the Secretary finds that the system fails to meet either of these
criteria, the Secretary would develop a plan for the establishment of
a national verification system. If the Secretary finds that the
private system meets the criteria, the Advisory Council would
terminate.

INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL GRADUATE LICENSURE REPORTS: With
respect to licensure by the states of individuals to practice
medicine, the Secretary annually would conduct a study of at least
10 states. The study would determine the average length of time
required for the states involved to process the licensure
applications of domestic medical graduates and the length of time
for such processing for international medical graduates and the
reasons underlying any significant differences.

The study also would determine the percentage of licensure
applications from domestic applicants that are approved and the
percentage of international medical graduate licensure applications
that are approved, and the reasons underlying any significant
differences.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

Following is a summary of health-related bills introduced in the

Following is a summary of health-related bills introduced in the
House of Representatives and Senate, along with sponsors and
committees to which the measures were referred.  The key words
that identify each bill's subject matter have been underlined.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

HOUSE BILLS

H.R.3696. To provide for assessments in each state of the incidence
and prevalence of substance abuse and of the extent to which the
availability, from public and nonprofit private providers, of
treatment for such abuse is insufficient to meet the need for such
treatment. (Rangel) Commerce.

H.R.3698. To amend the Public Health Services Act with respect to
services for mental health and substance abuse, including
establishing separate block grants to enhance the delivery of such
services. (Waxman) Commerce.

H.R.3724. To authorize appropriations for Indian health programs,
and for other purposes. (Miller) Interior and Insular Affairs and
Commerce.

H.R.3725. To require Senators and Members of the House of
Representatives to pay for medical services provided by the Office
of the Attending Physician. (Moody) House Administration.

H.R.3736. To repeal the $2 copayment requirement for medication
furnished certain veterans on an outpatient basis. (DeFazio)
Veterans Affairs.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
HEALTH LEGISLATION AND REGULATION via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 20, 1991

SENATE BILLS

S.1803. To prohibit recoupment of certain Medicare payments to
certain Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities. (Gorton) Finance.

S.1810. To provide for corrections with respect to the
implementation of reform of payments to physicians under Medicare.
(Rockefeller) Finance.

the treatment of voluntary contributions and provider-specific taxes
by states as a source of a state's expenditures for which federal
financial participation is available under Medicaid and to maintain
the treatment of intergovernmental transfers as such a source.
(McConnell) Finance.

S.1886. To delay until Sept. 30, 1992, the issuance of any
regulations by the HHS Secretary changing S.1887. to establish the
National Center for Nursing Research as a National Institute.
(Harkin) Human Resources.

S.1891. To permit the HHS Secretary to waive certain recovery
requirements with respect to the construction or remodeling of
facilities. (Thurmond).

S.1902. To require certain review and recommendations concerning
applications for assistance to perform research and to permit
certain research concerning the transplantation of human fetal
tissue for therapeutic purposes. (Adams) Human Resources.

S.1912. To increase the availability of primary and preventive health
care. (Domenici) Finance.

S.1933. To amend Titles VII and VIII of the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize and extend programs under such titles. (Kennedy)
Human Resources.

S.1936. To provide improved access to health care. (Chafee) Finance.

S.1944. To strengthen the nation's health promotion and disease
prevention activities. (Kennedy) Human Resources.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-20</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-258</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh01.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023458 text/html 26551
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:33:13 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:02 GMT
Content-length: 26362
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh01.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet <BR>
January 2, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<H3>* TODAY's NEWS *</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Medicaid per-capita cap proposals may change current&nbsp;entitlement status, promise state funding conflicts, CBO says; budget&nbsp;talks stretch into weekend.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(698 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Medicare growth rate increases likely under MedicarePlus&nbsp;provisions in White House, Republican budget plans, American Academy&nbsp;of Actuaries report concludes.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(678 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Ivax begins shipping generic albuterol metered-dose inhaler&nbsp;Dec. 29 following approval of generic equivalent to Glaxo's Ventolin.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(333 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>FDA sets RDIs for six nutrients, including vitamin K and&nbsp;selenium; agency publishes DSHEA implementing regs Dec. 28.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(598 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>* BRIEFS *</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>PEOPLE: Senate Finance Committee.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(25 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>PEOPLE: Dura.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(34 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>PEOPLE: Endogen.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(24 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>REGULATORY NEWS: KV Pharmaceutical.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(44 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>RESEARCH: OXiGENE Sensamide.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(74 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>RESEARCH: Lidak's LP 2307.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(60 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>RESEARCH: Alpha-Beta Technology.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(49 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>FINANCIAL NEWS: Arris.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(116 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>FINANCIAL NEWS: ChiRex Inc..</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(82 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>FINANCIAL NEWS: Boston Life Sciences.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(41 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>INDUSTRY NEWS: Quantum.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(77 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>INDUSTRY NEWS: Quantum/Glaxo Wellcome.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(22 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>INDUSTRY NEWS: Sepracor.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(71 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>INDUSTRY NEWS: Fountain Pharmaceuticals.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(24 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

Medicaid per-capita cap proposals may change current
entitlement status, promise state funding conflicts, CBO says; budget
talks stretch into weekend.

MEDICAID PER-CAPITA CAP COULD EXCLUDE ELIGIBLE POPULATIONS, the
Congressional Budget Office concludes in an outline of the provsion
included in President Clinton's Medicaid reform proposal. In a
December memo, CBO states that such "proposals would not necessarily
maintain a true federal entitlement to benefits for the eligible
population groups." CBO states that a "program that capped federal
expenditures per enrollee probably could not meet all" criteria of an
entitlement program; an entitlement program's establishing law "must
describe who is eligible and the benefits to which they are entitled,
as well as assuring that federal funds accommodate changes in
enrollment and in the cost of benefits."
 
The CBO memo raises two specific issues in its discussion of a
per-capita federal "entitlement." First, it notes that "there would
be no guarantee that all populations currently covered by the
Medicaid program would continue to be eligible," since "states might
cut back on coverage of high-cost optional groups" or eliminate
optional services as a means of keeping "expenditures below the cap
amounts."
 
Secondly, according to CBO, "it is much less clear...what would
happen if the caps were sufficiently constraining in some states that
access to services for entitled populations was seriously limited."
CBO explains further that whether beneficiaries could accordingly sue
the state and/or federal governments, "and the resulting implications
for Medicaid expenditures, would depend critically on whether and how
the individual entitlement was defined in the law."
 
While congressional Republicans included in their vetoed budget
package a move from Medicaid's individual entitlement to a
"Medigrant" block grant to states, the White House and several
centrist groups of lawmakers have offered per-capita cap proposals
that they claim would preserve an individual entitlement. However,
both the White House and the conservative House Democratic
"Coalition" have been denied CBO scoring of any savings to their cap
as CBO has cited insufficient legislative detail.
 
The gap between the block grant and per-capita cap in Medicaid
policy may be the most contentious aspect of budget negotiations.
Talks resumed Dec. 29 involving President Clinton, House Speaker Newt
Gingrich (R-Ga.), and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kan.);
Gingrich forecast that "this is the weekend where we get it all
done." Both sides expressed their willingness to work through the
weekend into the new year.
 
Earlier in the day, White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta met
with congressional Budget Committee leadership, after which Rep. John
Kasich (R-Ohio) reported that both sides began a "give and take." The
budgeteers planned to reconvene that evening following the White
House session, and Dole said talks with the President would continue
on Dec. 30. Both sides expected to rapidly pass legislation over the
weekend allowing furloughed federal employees to return to work.
 
Addressing another issue with Medicaid per-capita caps, the CBO
memo also notes that states "could use a variety of methods to keep
their average expenditures below the cap amounts" and that some
methods "might raise, rather than lower, aggregate federal Medicaid
expenditures." Since "improvements in efficiency alone would probably
be insufficient to maintain expenditures below the cap" under tight
constraints, states might employ tactics such as shifting enrollees
from lower-cost groups to higher-cost groups that have higher
per-capita caps. CBO added that states might also "increase their
efforts to shift more of the costs of the elderly and the disabled to
the Medicare program, likewise lowering average Medicaid expenditures
per enrollee but raising total federal spending."
 
As a further consideration with per-capita cap proposals, CBO
reported that funding to states "would raise some of the same equity
questions as block grants." Both determining base year per capita
amounts and annual growth rates would be important policy decisions.
Since states' caps would likely be based on their historical
expenditure patterns, "states with high expenditures per beneficiary
would be able to lock in higher caps than states with low
expenditures per beneficiary." Low-cost states with rapid beneficiary
growth could receive a mixed bag; "some of the negative effects" of
lower caps "might be mitigated by the fact that enrollment would not
be constrained." However, for other low-cost states, "basing the per
capita caps on the existing wide discrepancies among the states would
be more problematic."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

Medicare growth rate increases likely under MedicarePlus
provisions in White House, Republican budget plans, American Academy
of Actuaries report concludes.

GOP/CLINTON MEDICAREPLUS FINANCIAL INCENTIVES COULD INCREASE
PROGRAM GROWTH rates rather than reduce Medicare expenditures,
according to a recent report prepared by the American Academy of
Actuaries. Commenting on the congressional Republican and the Clinton
Administration Medicare reform plans, AAA concludes that "the
intended geographic reconfiguration of the payment rates will tend to
increase Medicare expenditures, rather than reduce them." The report
authors are AAA Medicare workgroup chairman Guy King and members
David Axene, Solomon Mussey, David Kerr, Walter Liptak, Robert Lynch,
and David Wille.
 
The report states that in areas where new capitation payments
will be higher than under current law, new enrollment in Medicare
Plus plans will increase expenditures; however in these areas
financial incentives for beneficiaries to join new plans will be
increased. AAA argues that in areas where new capitation payments
will be less than under current law, new enrollment will reduce
expenditures; however, these are areas where financial incentives for
beneficiaries to join new plans will be diminished. The academy
emphasizes that the growth rate targets may not be reachable due to
the lack of incentives in areas where new enrollment could achieve
savings from the program.
 
AAA also states that capitation payments under the GOP plan will
rise faster than the rates designated by law. The report notes that
the Medicare Preservation Act specifies a minimum capitation payment
of $300 per month in 1996, and $350 in 1997. "But the law also says
that no capitation payment can ever increase by less than 2%
annually," according to the report. AAA concludes that "the increases
in capitation payments in the counties where these minimums apply
will make average rates rise more rapidly than the rates designated
in the law."
 
"Two significant deficiencies" in both the GOP and Clinton
Administration proposals are that they rely heavily on provider
payment reductions, the report states. The academy argues that
"reducing unit payments won't produce incentives for reducing the
rate of growth in health expenditures." The report notes "in many
cases, the rate of growth in volume and intensity of services,
increases when unit payments are lowered." In addition, the fail-safe
mechanism in the GOP plan provides no incentives for more
cost-effective delivery of health care, according to the report.
 
Second, the academy states that the structure of payments in both
proposals allows providers to choose capitation over fee-for-service
payments "if it turns out that capitation payments provide more
revenue" to providers. The Administration and GOP proposals "merely"
offer providers an alternative payment mechanism for maximizing
Medicare revenues, the academy contends.
 
The academy predicts that the Administration proposal would not
significantly impact the long-range actuarial deficit in the Hospital
Insurance program. The report states that President Clinton's
proposal employs "an accounting trick," by transferring part of the
obligation to pay for home health benefits from the HI trust fund to
the supplementary medical insurance trust fund, without a
corresponding increase in the Part B premium. Expected to make the HI
program meet short-range solvency standards, the tactic undermines
"the fiscal discipline imposed by the trust fund, and makes it
possible to avoid producing genuine, effective reform," AAA
concludes.
 
The academy lists several recommendations for improving the
proposals, in addition to suggesting less reliance on provider
payment reductions, elimination of "tricks in the HI program" and
substitution of market- based capitation rates under the MedicarePlus
plan. One recommendation includes providing financial incentives for
beneficiaries to join MedicarePlus plans in the form of increased
out-of-pocket payments such as co-payments and deductibles for
beneficiaries desiring to stay in fee-for-service.
 
Also the Academy's workgroup notes that the fail-safe mechanism
should be retained, but should be modified to increase program
deductibles if expenditures exceed the allowances. The report states
that this modification will ensure that providers do not refuse care
to Medicare beneficiaries because payments are inadequate. A final
recommendation notes that the legislation should provide a mechanism
to deal with long-range financial instability of the HI program,
"even if the mechanism is nothing more than the appointment of a
bipartisan commission to study the problem."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

Ivax begins shipping generic albuterol metered-dose inhaler
Dec. 29 following approval of generic equivalent to Glaxo's Ventolin.

IVAX BEGINS SHIPMENTS OF GENERIC VERSION OF GLAXO's VENTOLIN
metered-dose inhaler on Dec. 29, less than 24 hours after FDA
approval of the albuterol product. The company will market the
albuterol metered-dose inhaler approved on Dec. 28 through its Zenith
Goldine subsidiary. The asthma treatment is made at Ivax' Norton
subsidiary Waterford, Ireland plant. Schering-Plough also markets an
albuterol MDI under the brand name Proventil.
 
Ivax has sold over 28 mil. albuterol inhalers in over 30
countries worldwide. The albuterol approval gives Ivax a total of 18
ANDA approvals in 1995 for 12 different chemical compounds, the
company reports.
 
The FDA approval for the controversial generic drug during the
late 1995 holiday season ends an almost seven-year effort by brand
name manufacturers to block clearance of the nonsystemically absorbed
product. As of Dec. 29, none of the innovator companies had taken
legal action against the approval.
 
In a Dec. 29 "Talk Paper," FDA declared the Ivax product "safe
and effective as the brand name product" based on "a series of
laboratory analyses and in vivo tests in humans."
 
FDA lays out the bioequivalence tests that supported the approval
of the generic albuterol MDI, which included in vitro particle and
plume tests, bronchoprovocation studies in asthmatics, and
cardiovascular and metabolic tests in healthy volunteers.
 
In vitro performance tests for aerosol products "determined the
equivalence or similarity of the generic and brand name products for
the delivered amount of albuterol, the particle size and the shape of
the aerosol cloud produced by both products."
 
In the bronchoprovocation study, "the equivalence of the
pharmacological action of albuterol MDIs was established by comparing
the generic version and the brand name product's capacity to protect
the airways from constriction induced by histamine."
 
The agency adds that "the bioequivalence of the generic albuterol
MDI and Ventolin MDI was also confirmed by comparing the
cardiovascular and metabolic effects of these products in healthy
people at exposure levels substantially exceeding the recommended
therapeutic doses."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

FDA sets RDIs for six nutrients, including vitamin K and
selenium; agency publishes DSHEA implementing regs Dec. 28.

FDA SETS RDIs FOR SIX NUTRIENTS, INCLUDING SELENIUM, CHROMIUM,
vitamin K, molybdenum, chloride and manganese in a final rule
published in the Dec. 28 Federal Register. Initially, in a proposed
rule published in January 1994, the agency considered reference daily
intakes (RDIs) for seven nutrients--these six and fluoride. The
agency established the rule in order to extend RDIs to essential
nutrients not covered in previous rules.
 
"These actions are intended to assist consumers in understanding
the nutritional significance of foods in the context of a total daily
diet and are in recognition of the fact that the National Academy of
Sciences (NAS) established Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) and
Estimated Safe and Adequate Daily Dietary Intakes (ESADDIs) for"
these six nutrients, FDA states. The agency develops RDIs as a way of
communicating dietary information to consumers on the new "nutrition
facts" and "supplement facts" boxes on food and dietary supplement
products.
 
FDA decided to drop fluoride from consideration for an RDI
because, it notes, "fluoride does not meet the first criterion" for
assigning a nutrient an RDI, "namely, that there is significant
scientific consensus as to the essentiality of the nutrient." NAS,
the agency explained, said that study results so far justify no
classification of fluoride as essential.
 
The agency clarified that it had, in the proposed rule,
"mistakenly proposed an RDI for each nutrient listed in the NAS' RDA
and ESADDI tables...[failing] to focus on the fact that, unlike other
nutrients listed, the supporting text did not conclude that fluoride
is an essential element."
 
The RDIs set for vitamin K (80 mcg), selenium (70 mcg) and
chloride (3,400 mg) are the same as those proposed by FDA in the
earlier rule. However, because of a change in methodology for
determining RDIs for nutrients with ESADDIs, FDA is proposing lower
RDIs for manganese (previously 3.5 mg, now 2 mg); chromium
(previously 130 mcg, now 120 mcg); and molybdenum (previously 160
mcg, now 75 mcg).
 
The agency "intends to propose to establish RDIs for infants,
children less than four years, and pregnant and lactating women in
the near future. In that proposal the agency intends to address all
nutrients for which RDIs have been established for adults and
children four or more years of age."
 
The final rule establishing new RDIs is one of four rules
affecting dietary supplement labeling published in the Dec. 28
Federal Register. Also published are three proposed rules --
essentially implementing regs for the Dietary Supplement Health and
Education Act of 1994 -- that cover the "how tos" of nutrition and
ingredient labeling, nutritional support claims, and "high potency",
"antioxidant", and "sugar-free" claims.
 
The nutrition and ingredient labeling proposed rule sets out
FDA's interpretation of dietary supplement labeling under DSHEA and
the Nutrition Labeling & Education Act. Under FDA's proposal, some
dietary supplements, including herbal and fatty acid products, may
have to include information on calories and amounts of carbohydrates
(sugars) or fats. In addition, FDA is proposing to list ingredients
and amounts on a "per serving" basis rather than on a per dose basis.
 
FDA would allow "high potency" claims for products with one
dietary ingredient at a level of 100% of the RDI. For dietary
supplement products that contain more than one dietary ingredient, at
least two-thirds of the ingredients in the product for which there is
an RDI or DRV (daily reference value) would have to be at 100% of
that level. The proposal will only allow "antioxidant" claims to be
made for dietary supplements that contain beta carotene, vitamin C
and/or vitamin E.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

PEOPLE: Senate Finance Committee.

Senate Finance Committee: Chief Medicaid aide Roy Ramthum leaves
to join Humana starting Jan. 8. Finance welfare staffer Dennis Smith
is acting in Ramthum's capacity....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

PEOPLE: Dura.

Dura: President and CEO Cam Garner is appointed chairman,
replacing James Blair, who resigned but continues to serve on the
board of the San Diego-based company. Garner has been president and
CEO since 1990....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

PEOPLE: Endogen.

Endogen: Dennis Walczewski is appointed VP-sales of the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company. Walczewski comes from T-Cell
Diagnostics, with previous experience at Boehringer-Mannheim and
Fisher Scientific....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

REGULATORY NEWS: KV Pharmaceutical.

KV Pharmaceutical: FDA certifies manufacturing operations as
compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices. In June 1993,
the St. Louis, Missouri-based company signed a consent decree to
correct cGMP violations and recondition certain products, following
FDA's April 1993 seizure of solid-dose prescription and OTC
pharmaceuticals....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

RESEARCH: OXiGENE Sensamide.

OXiGENE Sensamide: Phase I/II trial results for metoclopramide
formulation used as a sensitizer of radiation in treating patients
with inoperable non-small cell lung cancer published in the European
Journal of Cancer showed "no drug induced amplification of
radiation-induced side effects." In the 23-patient trial, half the
patients had complete or partial tumor response, the Swedish company
reports. Since May 1994, OXiGENE has been accruing patients in a
226-subject multicenter Phase II/III trial of Sensamide....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

RESEARCH: Lidak's LP 2307.

Lidak's LP 2307: Melanoma vaccine Phase I/II trial initiated. LP
2307 is a high concentration of isolated melanoma antigens attached
to cell-size microspheres. The one-year, 18-patient study will
examine LP 2307's safety and ability to elicit tumor-specific immune
responses in patients with late-stage disease and will be conducted
at the University of California at San Diego by Malcolm Mitchell,
MD....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

RESEARCH: Alpha-Beta Technology.

Alpha-Beta Technology: Betafectin Phase III trial for prevention
of serious post-operative infection will switch to using commercially
produced lots of Alpha-Beta's anti-infective. "This validates our
commercial manufacturing capability and, given a successful Phase III
trial, should speed our introduction of Betafectin to the market,"
the Worcester, Massachusetts-based company says....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

FINANCIAL NEWS: Arris.

Arris: Acquisition of Khepri Pharmaceuticals is complete with
Arris' purchase of all of Khepri's outstanding stock. San
Francisco-based Arris transferred 1.4 mil. shares of its common stock
to Khepri security holders and a second payment is scheduled to occur
Dec. 30, 1996, when at Arris' option, approximately 530,000
additional shares will be issued to Khepri security holders. About
350,000 shares of Arris Common Stock are reserved for issuance upon
exercise of options, warrant and exchange rights. In the fourth
quarter of 1995, Arris will write off $20.5 mil. in in-process R&D
costs associated with the acquisition, according to the company.
Cowen and Company advised Arris, and Hambrecht and Quist provided
financial advice to San Francisco-based Khepri....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

FINANCIAL NEWS: ChiRex Inc..

ChiRex Inc.: Newly-formed U.S. company files registration
statement with the Securities & Exchange Commission for an initial
public offering of 5.5 mil. shares at a maximum price of $16.50 per
share. Proceeds from the offering will be used to combine Sepracor's
chiral chemistry business with Sterling Organics Limited in the new
company. The offering will be overseen by CS First Boston, Lehman
Brothers and Smith Barney. ChiRex will have 9.8 mil. shares
outstanding after the offering; Sepracor will hold a 38% stake....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

FINANCIAL NEWS: Boston Life Sciences.

Boston Life Sciences: $1 mil. private placement of convertible
debentures with institutional investors is complete. The company also
announces that it commenced a private placement this fall to raise
$12 mil. BLS is developing Therafectin (amiprilose) for treatment of
rheumatoid arthritis....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

INDUSTRY NEWS: Quantum.

Quantum: Company realignment will result in a 10% reduction in
full-time employees for the Indianapolis-based alternate-site health
care company. Reductions will be primarily in corporate and field
management and marketing. The company projects annual savings of
around $5.7 mil. in salaries and benefits. President and Chief
Operating Officer John DeStefanis has resigned, effective Dec. 31.
The position of president will be consolidated with that of CEO and
will be filled by current chairman and CEO Douglas Stickney....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

INDUSTRY NEWS: Quantum/Glaxo Wellcome.

Quantum/Glaxo Wellcome: Quantum announces an agreement with Glaxo
Wellcome to distribute Flolan (epoprostenol sodium) injection to
patients with severe primary pulmonary hypertension....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

INDUSTRY NEWS: Sepracor.

Sepracor: U.S. patent for an improved chemical entity is granted
to Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Sepracor for purified
(2R,4S)-itraconazole for the treatment of local and systemic fungal
and yeast infections. Janssen's Sporonox (itraconazole) had 1994
worldwide sales of $276 mil. and its composition of matter patent is
effective through June 1998. Sepracor's (2R,4S)-itraconazole, a
purified version of parent drug Sporonox, has antifungal activity
with reduced risk of drug-drug interaction, according to the
company....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HEALTH NEWS DAILY via NewsNet
January 2, 1996

INDUSTRY NEWS: Fountain Pharmaceuticals.

Fountain Pharmaceuticals: Court order confirming the company's
plan of reorganization is final. The Clearwater, Florida-based
company specializes in the application of encapsulated delivery
systems....



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-21</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-290</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh29.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023519 text/html 29403
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:33:29 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:13 GMT
Content-length: 29214
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh29.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet <BR>
February 17, 1992<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>NEW PUBLIC HEALTH RESIDENCY LAUNCHED IN ST. LOUIS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(461 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL&nbsp;COLLEGES, MEDICAL SCHOOLS PROVIDING STUDENTS&nbsp;WITH DISABILITY COVERAGE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(323 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>DEMAND FOR OPTOMETRISTS GROWS BUT NUMBER OF&nbsp;APPLICANTS AT A VIRTUAL STANDSTILL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(794 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>* LEGISLATIVE OUTLOOK *</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>BUSH PRESENTS BUDGET, CALLS TO END&nbsp;FUNDING TO "UNTARGETED" PROGRAMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(499 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>CALL FOR PAPERS:&nbsp;NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS&nbsp;20th ANNIVERSARY CONFERENCE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(532 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>* GRANTS AVAILABILITY UPDATE *</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE GRANTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(585 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>EXTRAMURAL ASSOCIATES PROGRAM FOR&nbsp;MINORITIES AND WOMEN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(300 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>* RESEARCH NOTES *</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>LOYOLA SURGEONS PIONEER USE OF&nbsp;LAPAROSCOPY FOR TRAUMA DIAGNOSIS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(377 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

NEW PUBLIC HEALTH RESIDENCY LAUNCHED IN ST. LOUIS

The department of community medicine at St. Louis University School
of Medicine will soon be offering a new residency program in preventive
medicine/public health.  The two-year program, to begin operation in
July, will be open to individuals who hold a medical or equivalent
degree and who have completed one year of postgraduate clinical
training in an accredited residency program.

Establishing this residency will be SLU's way of helping to increase the
number of public health physicians who are in demand across the
country.  Rodney M. Coe, Ph.D., professor and chairman of the
department of community medicine, told Health Professions Report
that communities and government organizations at the city, county and
federal levels lack the needed public health manpower.  This gap is
especially apparent in rural areas, many of which have no physician at
all.

The program has already proven to be unique in several ways.  First, it
is the only preventive medicine/public health residency in Missouri.
Second, but perhaps more significant, is the program schedule.  Unlike
other programs where a year of classroom study is followed by up to
two years of practicums, this program will integrate the two phases.
Residents will do their practicums in coordination with subjects taught
in the classroom over a two-year period, rather than the usual three
years.

In addition to the public health residency, SLU has opened a residency
in occupational/environmental medicine.  Coe told Health Professions
Report that the two programs will be in close collaboration, sharing
many of the same SLU faculty.  The lecture portions of both programs
will be conducted at SLU's School of Public Health.  James R. Kimmey,
M.D., M.P.H., dean of the school, will serve as program director of the
new public health residency.

The practicum segment of the public health program will  be  provided
primarily  by   the Missouri  Department  of Health.  Corporate entities
such as the Monsanto chemical company will collaborate with SLU to
provide practicums for the occupational medicine residents.

At the beginning, each of the new residencies will have two openings in
each of the two years.  Dr. Coe told Health Professions Report that
SLU has already received inquiries from interested applicants from
other states, as well as local physicians who wish to pursue new careers
in public health.  The school is hoping that the new residency program
will really "catch on."

Residents who complete the public health program will be eligible to be
board certified in preventive medicine/public health.  The majority will
most likely be employed by government public health departments, at
the local, state or federal level, depending upon the extent of their
education.

Applications to both residencies are now being accepted.  For more
information, contact Kath Engelhardt, department of community
medicine, phone (314) 577-8527.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL
COLLEGES, MEDICAL SCHOOLS PROVIDING STUDENTS
WITH DISABILITY COVERAGE

The Association of American Medical Colleges has reported success in
its efforts to help medical schools provide disability insurance to
students.  The impetus for the Association of American Medical
Colleges' initiative was the desire to protect students from the financial
devastation of HIV infection.  And although the Association points out
that the risk of a student acquiring HIV during clinical training is quite
low, students still need access to the basic benefits they don't currently
have, such as workman's compensation.

The Association's staff negotiated with insurance companies to create
disability plans that include the best features of group and individual
policies.  One of the attractive aspects of the plans is their guarantee
that students can both continue coverage after graduation and  purchase
increased  coverage,  without  medical  underwriting.

Robert F. Jones, Ph.D., assistant vice president for institutional studies
at the Association of American Medical Colleges, spearheaded the
organization's move to create these insurance plans.  "Our intention was
not to get into the insurance business but to prod the industry," Jones
explained.  "These companies deserve credit for coming through with
these programs when many dismissed the idea."

Although the threat of HIV transmission prompted the development of
these insurance plans, the broad-based policies will provide coverage for
any disabling condition, however acquired.  Residency and fellowship
programs are eligible to participate in the insurance plans as well.

Two insurance programs are now being marketed independently of the
Association.  One, offered through CM Financial Group of Chicago, is
underwritten by Connecticut Mutual and GroupAmerica.  The second,
marketed by the University Physicians Trust in Boston, has UNUM and
the United States Life company of New York as carriers.

Among the first institutions implementing the insurance are the medical
schools at New York University, Washington University at St. Louis,
Harvard University and Jefferson Medical College and the Medical
College of Wisconsin.

For more information, contact Dick Green at Association of American
Medical Colleges, phone (202) 828-0418.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

DEMAND FOR OPTOMETRISTS GROWS BUT NUMBER OF
APPLICANTS AT A VIRTUAL STANDSTILL

The American Optometric Association has reported that despite growth
in the number of minority and women optometrists over the last few
years, the total number of students now studying optometry will not be
enough  to  fulfill  the  country's  future  eye  care needs.

According to Association, the expanding demand for optometrists is
expected to continue, because people of all ages require eye care.
However, there are particular segments of the population that will
contribute disproportionately to that demand.

The population of school age children are expected to multiply from
49.1 million in 1990 to 52.6 million by 2000. One out of five children has
a vision-related learning problem.

The group that includes adults ages 26-44 will remain relatively stable,
changing from 77.7 million in 1990 to only 77.6 million in 2000.
However, as the "baby-boomer" generation ages, the 45-64 age group
will increase from 46.8 million in 1990 to 61.7 million by 2000.  The
nation's workforce is comprised of both groups, 46 million of whom use
video display terminals, placing greater stress on their eyes.  The 40 and
older group will experience the onset of presbyopia, an age-related
condition which makes reading and up-close work difficult.

The segment of adults 65 years and older will grow from 31.6 million to
34.9 million during that same time period. Virtually everyone in this
group develops presbyopia. Older people in this group may also suffer
from cataracts (15.5%), glaucoma (two to three percent), and other
vision impairments.

Who will be caring for the eyes of all these people? According to
Association, fewer students are applying to schools of optometry than
six years ago. In 1986, there were 1.67 applicants for every available seat
in U.S. schools and colleges of optometry. That number declined to 1.49
applicants in 1989, and dropped even further in 1990, to a low of an
estimated 1.42 applicants. By 1991, the number of applicants competing
for each optometry seat had risen, if only slightly, to an estimated 1.52
per seat.

In addition to the slump in overall applications, minorities remain
underrepresented in optometry compared to their populations in
society, despite percentage gains over the last few years.  About one
percent of practicing optometrists are black, less than one percent are
Hispanic, about 0.2 percent are Native American and three to four
percent are Asian.

Fortunately, the diversity of the optometric student body has seen some
recent improvements. From 1979 to 1989, Asian students increased
from fewer than 4 percent of the student population to ten percent. The
number of Hispanic students grew from 1.5 percent to 3.3 percent. The
black student population doubled, from 1.4 percent to 2.8 percent. The
Native American presence in optometry schools tripled from 0.2 percent
to 0.6 percent.

While optometry still has a distance to go in recruiting and training
minority practitioners, the field is about to experience a boost in the
number of women eye care professionals. Of the 26,400 optometrists
currently practicing in the U.S., 4,200 or about 16% of them are women.
Of the current crop of optometric students, over 45% are women. By
2000, the number of practicing optometrists is expected to grow to
30,600, with women numbering 8,000, or 26% of that total.

The positive attributes of a career in optometry that are attracting more
women to the field are a selling point for any interested student. For
example:

* the average annual net income for optometrists is $70,000, while some
practitioners earn up to six-figure incomes;

* recent graduates earn an average of $40,000 in their first year in
practice;

optometrists average 40-hour work weeks, leaving time for family and
leisure;

* career opportunities other than private practices include teaching,
research, public health, the military, multidisciplinary practices, industry
consulting;

* optometrists may specialize in contact lenses, vision therapy, pediatric
optometry, geriatrics, low vision care for the visually impaired and
sports-related eye care;

the growing demand for optometry services creates a larger measure of
job security.

In 1990-91,  the  tuition  for  first-year  optometry  students  ranged
from  $4,342  for  in-state  residents  at public  schools  to  $12,763  for
out-of-state  residents  at private  schools.  These  figures  remain  about
the  same  for  the  succeeding  three  years  of  optometry  school.

The loan programs most commonly used by optometry students include
Perkins and Stafford loans; Health Professions Student Loans; Health
Education Assistance Loans; Supplemental Loans for Students, and
loans made directly from schools. During the 1990-91 academic year,
the Stafford loan program was most widely used by optometry students.

For more information about a career in optometry, contact the
American Optometric Association, 243 N. Lindbergh Blvd., St. Louis,
MO  63141, phone (314) 991-4100, or the Association of Schools and
Colleges of Optometry, phone (301) 231-5944.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

BUSH PRESENTS BUDGET, CALLS TO END
FUNDING TO "UNTARGETED" PROGRAMS

The FY 93 budget proposal recently presented by the Bush
Administration includes $585 billion for the department of Health and
Human Services, which represents an increase of $41 billion (7.5%)
over FY 92. With the President calling for the termination of health
professions assistance grants in FY 93, and the elimination of over 200
domestic discretionary programs, it is no surprise that the "new blood"
in the Health and Human Services budget is not targeted toward health
professions education.

On the contrary, the budget document noted that "after two decades of
federal support, the aggregate shortage of health professionals
perceived in the 1960s when these subsidies were initiated, has abated."
The budget goes on to call for the elimination of federal funding to
"untargeted" health professions curriculum assistance programs.  So
what exactly will health professions be getting?

* Medicare/IME: Neither the budget itself nor the Health and Human
Services budget summary contain wording that would reduce Medicare
payments for graduate medical education.  In particular, there are no
provisions reducing the Medicare indirect medical education (IME)
adjustment or the Medicare direct graduate medical education
payments.

* National Health Service Corps: is slated to receive a $20 million
increase (19%), to a total of $120 million.  Of this amount, $65 million
would be available for scholarships and loan repayment.

* Health Career Opportunity Program: would receive an increase of $6
million, as part of a $96 million provision for programs specifically
targeted to health professions education for minorities.

* HIV/AIDS: The Public Health Service has been scheduled to receive
$2.069 billion for research, prevention and other related activities having
to do with these diseases. This funding level is $101 million more than
was apportioned in FY 92. A breakdown of some of the Public Health
Service components receiving HIV/AIDS funding includes the Food
and Drug Administration, $75 million; Health Resources and Services
Administration, $349 million; Indian Health Service, $3 million; Centers
for Disease Control, $505 million; National Institutes of Health, $873
million.

* National Institutes of Health: has been slated for $9.396 billion, an
increase of $443 million (4.9%) over FY 92. The budget proposes $5.277
billion for research project grants in FY 93, a $350 million (7.1%)
increase. This amount would provide funding for 5,800 new and
competing renewal research project grants and 22,132 total research
project grants. These figures show a decrease from the number of
projects funded in FY 92: 6,000 and 21,671 respectively. The budget
provided no funding increases for research centers, research training,
Research Centers in Minority Institutions, Minority Biomedical
Research Support grants or the Minority Access to Research Careers
programs.

* Community and Migrant Health Centers: received a 15% increase in
funding.

* Nursing: education programs failed to be funded again this year, but
the National Center for Nursing Research received $48.5 million.

* Veterans Administration: has been designated to receive $34.3 billion
for FY 93, an increase of $1 billion for the third consecutive year.  Of
that amount, $58.6 million will be used to hire additional health care
professionals.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

CALL FOR PAPERS:
NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS
20th ANNIVERSARY CONFERENCE

The National Health Service Corps, in conjunction with the Alliance for
Primary Care, will present "Serving America's Communities," a
conference to acknowledge the 20th anniversary of the National Health
Service Corps. The meeting will be held June 25-26, 1992 in Arlington,
Va.

The conference program will consist of a formal program of scholarly
presentations, papers and poster sessions, discussion and round table
sessions, plenary sessions, keynote presentations by community health
leaders, and recognition activities and awards honoring service to the
National Health Service Corps. A special event will be focus groups of
clinicians designing a national practice-based research agenda for
primary care issues facing underserved populations.

The target audience for the national meeting is National Health Service
Corps active and alumni personnel, individuals involved or interested in
community and public health, and clinicians desiring to help develop a
national primary care research agenda.

The National Health Service Corps has called for paper proposals to be
presented at the meeting. Papers should address substantive issues,
successes, and models regarding the role of health professionals and
impacts upon the health of underserved populations. Individuals being
encouraged to submit proposals include clinical practitioners, Corps
clinicians and alumni, practitioner and academician collaborators, and
interdisciplinary groups.

The Corps has offered these ideas for possible paper topics:

(1) the community impact of successful National Health Service Corps
placements;

(2) models and strategies for increasing the number of primary care
providers serving the underserved;

(3) clinical issues: National Health Service Corps placements leading to
improved patient outcomes

* sensitivity of National Health Service Corps providers in the delivery
of quality primary care services

* successes and paradigms for retention and recruitment of primary
care providers for underserved populations

* strategies for improving access to oral health care

* increasing the role of clinical nurse midwives, nurse practitioners and
physician assistants in the delivery of primary health care

* topics and issues relating to clinical training programs

* community health issues

* community involvement in health care decisions.

Proposals for papers must include a completed application form;
updated curriculum vitae of author(s); a short (maximum two pages)
description of the paper, including what the audience will learn, and a
150-word abstract.

Submitted papers will be blind-reviewed by a panel, and those authors
whose papers are accepted will be invited to prepare a paper of
five-page maximum length to be included in the proceedings to be
distributed at the program.

Application for continuing education credit for various professions will
be made for this program.  Persons submitting proposals for
paper/presentations must be present at the conference or send a
representative to present the paper.

For more information or an application form, contact Dr. Barbara F.
LeGrand, National Health Service Corps 20th National Anniversary
Meeting, Continuing Education, 465 East High Street, Suite 204,
Lexington, KY  40507-1935.

Proposals should be submitted to Dr. LeGrand at the same address, or
faxed to (606) 258-2437. Deadline for submissions is March 2, 1992.
Notices of acceptance or rejection will be mailed March 30, 1992.
Those individuals whose papers are accepted must have a camera-ready
paper of a maximum of five pages submitted no later than June 1, 1992
for inclusion in the meeting proceedings.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE GRANTS

The Health Resources and Services Administration is accepting
applications for grants for Centers of Excellence in Minority Health
Professions Education.  The FY 92 appropriation for the Center Of
Excellence program is $24.1 million.

Total continuation support previously recommended is $14,544,957, to
be distributed as follows: Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
$12,092,527; Hispanic COEs, $1,456,107; Native American COEs,
$996,324.  Approximately $9.6 million will be available to support about
45 competing awards averaging $210,000.  Payments under grants for
COEs may not exceed three years.

Grants awarded under this program may be used to establish,
strengthen or expand programs to enhance the academic performance
of minority students attending the school; establish, strengthen or
expand programs to increase the number and quality of minority
applicants to the school; to improve the capacity of such schools to train,
recruit and retain minority faculty; to carry out activities to improve the
information resources and curricula of the school and clinical education
at the school with respect to minority health issues, and to facilitate
faculty and student research on health issues particularly affecting
minority groups.

In addition, grants for eligible Historically Black Colleges and
Universities may also be used to develop a plan to achieve institutional
improvements, including financial independence, and to improve library
access. Applicants must address at least three of these five legislative
purposes.

To qualify as a Center Of Excellence, a school is required to have a
significant number of minority individuals enrolled in the school,
including individuals accepted for enrollment in the school; demonstrate
that it has been effective in assisting minority students of the school to
complete the program of education and receive the degree involved;
show that it has been effective in recruiting minority individuals to
attend the school, including providing scholarships and other financial
assistance to such individuals, and encouraging minority students of
secondary educational institutions to attend the health professions
school, and demonstrate that it has made significant recruitment efforts
to increase the number of minority individuals serving in faculty or
administrative positions at the school.  For the purposes of this
program, "health professions schools" are defined as schools of
medicine, dentistry and pharmacy.  Applicants will be expected to
incorporate the principles of Healthy People 2000 in their proposals.

Funding preference will be given to applications scoring in the upper
40th percentile or better, submitted by schools located in states which
do not currently have a Center Of Excellence in that discipline.  The
proposed funding preference does not preclude funding of other eligible
approved applications.

Interested persons are invited to comment on the proposed funding
preferences. Written comments should be addressed to Clay E.
Simpson, Jr., Ph.D., Director, Division of Disadvantaged Assistance,
Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8A-09, Rockville, MD  20857.
Deadline for comments is February 26, 1992.

Requests for grant application materials and questions regarding grants
policy and business management aspects should be directed to Ms.
Diane Murray, Grants Management Specialist (D34), Bureau of Health
Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600
Fishers Lane, Room 8C-26, Rockville, MD  20857, phone (301)
443-6857. Completed applications should be returned to the Grants
Management Specialist at the above address.

To obtain specific information regarding programmatic aspects of this
grant program, direct inquiries to Ms. Cynthia Amis, Acting Chief,
Program Coordination Branch, Division of Disadvantaged Assistance,
Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8A-09, Rockville, MD  20857,
phone (301) 443-4493.  Deadline for applications is March 13, 1992.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

EXTRAMURAL ASSOCIATES PROGRAM FOR
MINORITIES AND WOMEN

The National Institutes of Health has called for applications to its
Extramural Associates Program for Minorities and Women.  This
program is designed to bring more underrepresented minorities into
biomedical and behavioral research.

Associates spend two months (the summer program) or five months at
the National Institutes of Health, and the federal government
reimburses faculty members' institution for salary, travel and related
expenses. For more information, contact Dr. Percy Thomas at the
National Institutes of Health, phone (301) 496-9728. Deadline for
applications to the two- and three-month programs is June 15, 1992.

The Department of Veterans Affairs has announced the availability of
scholarships to nursing, nurse anesthesia and occupational or physical
therapy students for the 1992-93 school year.  The Health Professional
Scholarship Program and the Reserve Member Stipend Program
provide financial support to associate degree nursing students in their
last year of study, and third- and fourth-year students in baccalaureate
or entry-level master's degree programs in nursing, occupational
therapy and physical therapy.  In the Reserve Member Stipend
Program, reservists must be members of the Selected Ready Reserves
and eligible for the Montgomery Reserve GI Bill.

Department of Veterans Affairs Health Professional Scholarship
recipients receive tuition, educational expenses and a monthly stipend of
$621. Reserve Stipend recipients receive $400 monthly while enrolled in
full-time course work. In exchange, participants in both programs agree
to serve as a full-time registered nurse, occupational or physical
therapist in a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center for a
period of one year for each year of support. The maximum length of an
award is two years.

Requests for applications may be made to the Health Professionals
Educational Assistance Programs (143B), 810 Vermont Ave. N.W.,
Washington, DC 20420, phone (202) 535-7528.  Deadline for
applications is May 26, 1992.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH PROFESSIONS REPORT via NewsNet
February 17, 1992

LOYOLA SURGEONS PIONEER USE OF
LAPAROSCOPY FOR TRAUMA DIAGNOSIS

Surgeons at the Loyola University Medical Center and Hines Veterans
Administration Hospital are pioneering the diagnostic use of the
laparoscope in emergency medicine, and expanding its use to include
kidney removal and other surgeries.  These innovations are evolving
along with the development of the Medical Center's Laparoscopic
Surgery Center.

The goals of the new center are to train specialists and students in
laparoscopic techniques, research and develop new applications of the
laparoscope and provide a liaison between surgeons and manufacturers
to assist in the development of new surgical devices.  A key component
of the center will be an education and research facility which will allow
faculty to integrate laparoscopy principles and techniques into the
education of surgical residents and students, as well as providing
advances courses for surgeons.

Laparoscopy is currently being used for appendix removal,
cholecystectomy, bile duct exploration and lymph node biopsy.  Other
procedures to which the laparoscope will soon be applied include kidney
removal, colon resection, vagotomy, Nissen fundoplication and hernia
repair.

One of the major breakthroughs in laparoscopy, the diagnosis of
internal injury in trauma patients, has been advanced by Dr. Wendy J.
Marshall, trauma director, and Dr. Christopher K. Salvino.  The
surgeons have shown in an ongoing, randomized study that the
laparoscope is highly effective in evaluating abdominal injuries resulting
from trauma such as stab wounds, auto accidents and assault.

Salvino explained that before the laparoscope, internal bleeding was
detected by a diagnostic lavage -- or needle inserted into the abdomen.
The lavage is not accurate enough to pinpoint the location of the
bleeding, and needs to be confirmed by using a CAT scan.  These two
procedures can consume precious time, and may necessitate moving an
unstable patient.

Laparoscopy combines the best of both procedures, indicating the
source of the bleeding and often enabling surgery to be performed
immediately. The Loyola study has indicated that laparoscopy may
sometimes even eliminate unnecessary surgery, because about 20% of
patients who test positive for bleeding by the lavage method actually
stop bleeding prior to surgery.

Other new uses for the laparoscope still being tested in the lab include
using the method to insert feeding tubes into stomachs of patients
unable to eat; internally stapling stab wounds to stop bleeding, and
injecting fibrin glue to control hemorrhaging.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-22</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-322</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh25.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023620 text/html 18102
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:33:54 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:12 GMT
Content-length: 17913
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh25.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet <BR>
JANUARY 1, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>Regulatory Activity</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(110 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>NOTICES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(752 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>AGENCY MEETINGS & HEARINGS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(316 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Legislative Activity</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(536 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>SENATE BILLS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(107 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>HOUSE BILLS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(267 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Calendar</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(243 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

Regulatory Activity


PROPOSED RULES

HHS/FDA - CORRECTION

Federal Register 12-21-95, p. 66227.

Correction to certain statements in the preamble to a proposed rule regarding
classification, reclassification, and codification of pedicle screw spinal
systems (orthopedic devices) published in the October 4, 1995 Federal
Register.  The document is being corrected to reflect an accurate description
of the formation, membership, and activities of the Spinal Implant
Manufacturers Group and the Scientific Committee, two separate entities
established by the spinal implant manufacturers and medical professional
societies to collect and submit to the FDA all available valid scientific data
on the performance of pedicle screw spinal devices.  Information:  Mark
Melkerson, 301/594-2036.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

NOTICES


HHS - REPORT SUBMITTED TO OMB FOR REVIEW

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65659.

HHS/HRSA, National Practitioner Data Bank for Adverse Information on
Physicians and Other Health Care Practitioners:  Regulations and Forms:
0915-0126 (Extension, no change).  Information:  Reports Clearance Office,
301/443-1129.

Federal Register 12-22-95, p.  66552.

HHS/ACF, National Study of Outcomes for Children Placed in Foster Care with
Relatives (New).  Information:  Reports Clearance Office, 202/690-7275.

HHS/ACF - DEADLINE EXTENSION

Federal Register 12-18-95, p.  65064.

Notice amending the public notice published in the September 7 Federal
Register by extending the deadline for accepting new child welfare waiver
demonstration proposals and the second round of proposals.  A notice will be
published in January 1996 providing a new deadline.  Information:  Michael
Ambrose, 202/205-8618.

HHS/ACF - EARLY HEAD START

Federal Register 12-21-95, p.  66276.

Notice of the availability of funds and a request for applications to conduct
research in Early Head Start programs.  The deadline for submission is
February 20, 1996.  Information:  ACYF Operations Center, 800/351-2293.

HHS/FDA - APPLICATION APPROVAL

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65347.

Notice of the approval of the premarket approval application by Progressive
Angioplasty Systems, Inc., of Menlo Park CA, for the PAS LaCrosse PTCA
Catheter.  Petitions for administrative review must be submitted by January
18.  Information:  Veronica Price, 301/443-8243.

HHS/FDA - PREMARKET APPROVAL

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65347.

Notice of the application approval of Westbrook ME's Bioetica, Inc.'s
HEMOSTAGENE Absorbable Collagen Hemostatic Sponge.  Petitions for
administrative review must be submitted by January 18.  Information:  Frances
Curtis, 301/594-3090.

HHS/FDA - NEW INDICATION APPROVAL

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65348.

Notice of the supplemental application approval by Cochlear Corp.  of
Englewood CO, for premarket approval of a new indication for use for the
Nucleus 22-Channel Cochlear Implant.  Administrative appeals petitions must be
submitted by January 18.  Information:  Marilyn Flack, 301/594-2080.

HHS/FDA - INTRAOCULAR LENS

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65349.

Notice of the approval of the application by Pharmacia, Inc.  of Dublin OH,
for premarket approval of Model WS-100 Pliolens ultraviolet-absorbing silicone
posterior chamber intraocular lens.  Administrative appeals petitions are due
January 18.  Information:  Ashley Boulware, 301/594-2053.

HHS/FDA - CORRECTION

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65349.

Correction of a notice published in the August 11, 1995 Federal Register.  The
notice, entitled "Nicotine In Cigarettes and Smokeless Tobacco Products Is A
Drug And These Products Are Nicotine Delivery Devices Under The Federal Food,
Drug, And Cosmetic Act," announced the availability of appendices to it.  This
notice corrects some proofreading errors in the references in that document.
Information:  Phillip Chao, 301/827-3380.

HHS/FDA - DRUG EXPORT

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65658.

Notice that Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc., has filed an application
requesting approval for the export to Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, The Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom of the human biological
product SELECTOGEN 0.8%, Reagent Red Blood Cells.  Information:  Cathy Conn,
301/594-2006.

HHS/FDA - HUMAN DRUG EXPORT

Federal Register 12-22-95, p.  66553.

Notice that Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc.  has filed an application
requesting approval for the export of the human biological product SURGISCREEN
0.8 percent, Reagent Red Blood Cells, to 20 countries.  Information:  Cathy
Conn, 301/594-2006.

HHS/NIH - LICENSING OPPORTUNITY

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65660.

Notice that the National Institutes of Health seek licensees to commercialize
a method to manipulate non-templated nucleotide addition to ensure that all
amplified DNA products of polymerase chain reaction are either specifically
modified or unmodified.  Information:  Ronald King, 301/496-7735.

HHS/NIH - GOVERNMENT INVENTIONS

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65660.

Notice of the list of government-owned inventions available for licensing in
the U.S.  Foreign patent applications are filed on selected inventions to
extend market coverage for U.S.  companies and may also be available for
licensing.  Information:  Robert Benson, 301/496-7056.

HHS/OS - SCIENTIFIC MISCONDUCT

Federal Register 12-21-95, p.  66276.

Notice that the Office of Research Integrity has made final findings of
scientific misconduct in the cases of Ruth Lupu, of Georgetown University
Medical Center, who was found to have submitted a false letter of
collaboration in an unfunded application to the Public Health Service; and
Victoria Santa Cruz, of the University of Arizona, who fabricated interview
data on a questionnaire intended for use in two studies funded by Public
Health Service grants.  Information:  Lyle Bivens, 301/443-5330.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

AGENCY MEETINGS & HEARINGS


HHS/AHCPR - POLICY, RESEARCH, EVALUATION

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65346.

Meeting of the National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and
Evaluation, January 26, Madison Hotel, Washington DC.  Information:  Deborah
Queenan, 301/594-1459.

HHS/CDC - HEALTH EFFECTS

Federal Register 12-22-95, p.  65662.

Meeting of the Citizens Advisory Committee on Public Health Service Activities
and Research at DOE Sites:  Savannah River Site Health Effects Subcommittee,
January 11-12, Hilton - The De Soto, Savannah GA.  Information:  Paul Renard,
770/488-7040.

HHS/HRSA - GME COUNCIL

Federal Register 12-19-95, p.  65351.

Meeting of the Council on Graduate Medical Education, January 9-10, Governor's
House Hotel, Washington DC.  Information:  Lawrence Clare, 301/443-6326.

HHS/NIH - AIDS RESEARCH

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65661.

Meeting of the National Institute of Allergy & Infectious Diseases' AIDS
Research Advisory Committee, January 30, NIH, Building 45, Natcher Conference
Center, Executive Board Conference Room D, Bethesda MD.  Information:  Anne
Claysmith, 301/402-0755.

HHS/NIH - LITERATURE SELECTION

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65661.

Meeting of the National Library of Medicine's Literature Selection Technical
Review Committee, February 8-9, National Library of Medicine, Building 38,
Bethesda MD.  Information:  Lois Ann Colaianni, 301/496-6921.

HHS/NIH - EYE COUNCIL

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65661.

Meeting of the National Advisory Eye Council, January 25, Executive Plaza
North, Conference Room G, Bethesda MD.  Information:  Lois DeNinno,
301/496-9110.

HHS/NIH - COMMUNICATIONS DISORDERS

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65662.

Meeting of the National Deafness and Other Communication Disorders Advisory
Council and its Planning Subcommittee, Teleconference, January 25-26, NIH,
Building 31, Conference Room 7, Bethesda MD.  Information:  Earleen Elkins,
301/496-8693.

HHS/NIH - MENTAL HEALTH

Federal Register 12-20-95, p.  65662.

Closed meeting of the National Institute of Mental Health Special Emphasis
Panel to review and evaluate grant applications, January 8-9, Hyatt Regency
Bethesda, Bethesda MD.  Information:  William Radcliffe, 301/443-1000.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

Legislative Activity


HEALTH PERFORMANCE PARTNERSHIPS

Senate reported the measure S.1180, to amend Title XIX of the Public Health
Service Act to provide for health performance partnerships, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute, on December 19.  Information:  Clerk,
202/224-2120.

TEEN DRUG USE

Senate Judiciary Committee concluded hearings December 19 to examine recent
trends in drug use among American youth, focusing on prevention and treatment
programs.  Information:  Committee Office, 202/224-5225.

BALANCED BUDGET

By a unanimous voice vote of 94, the Senate passed H.J.  Res.132, affirming
that budget negotiations shall be based on the most recent technical and
economic assumptions of the Congressional Budget Office and shall achieve a
balanced budget by FY2002 based on those assumptions, after agreeing to the
following amendment:

* Daschle Amendment No.  3108, to ensure Medicare solvency, reform welfare,
and provide adequate funding for Medicaid, education, agriculture, national
defense, veterans, and the environment.  Information:  Daschle's Office,
202/224-2321.

LABOR/HHS APPROPRIATIONS

Senate reached a unanimous-consent agreement December 20 providing for the
cloture vote on a motion to proceed to the consideration on December 22 of
H.R.2127, making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health & Human
Services, and Education, and related agencies, for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1996.  On December 22, a unanimous consent agreement was reached
to provide for the scheduled cloture vote to proceed to the consideration of
H.R.2127 to occur at a time to be determined, but not before January 3.
Information:  Committee Office, 202/224-4594.

WELFARE REFORM

House agreed to the conference report on H.R.4 on December 21, to restore the
American family, reduce illegitimacy, control welfare spending, and reduce
welfare dependence - clearing the measure for Senate action.  The following
measure was rejected by a recorded vote of 192-231:

* Rose motion to recommit the conference report to the committee of conference
with instructions to the managers on the part of the House to recede from
certain House provisions and agree to certain Senate amendments relating to
child abuse prevention and treatment, child care and development block grants,
state maintenance of social security efforts, SSI disabled children, family-
and school-based nutrition block grants, child nutrition programs, and
continued application of current standards under the Medicaid program.
Information:  Rose's Office, 202/225-2731.

VA MEDICAL FACILITIES

House Committee on Veterans' Affairs ordered reported H.R.2814 on December 21,
to authorize major medical facility projects and leases for the Department of
Veterans' Affairs for FY96.  On December 22, the House filed H.R.2814.
Information:  Committee Office, 202/225-3527.

DAYTON AREA HEALTH CARE PLAN

Senate Finance Committee was discharged December 22 from further consideration
of H.R.1878, to extend for two years the period of applicability of enrollment
mix requirement to certain health maintenance organizations providing services
under the Dayton Area Health Care Plan.  The bill was then passed, clearing
the measure for the President.  Information:  Committee Office, 202/224-4515.

WELFARE REPORT

Senate agreed to the welfare reform conference report, H.R.4, by a vote of 52
to 47 on December 22, to enhance support and work opportunities for families
with children, reduce welfare dependence, and control welfare spending.  The
measure is now cleared for the President.  Information:  Clerk, 202/225-2120.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

SENATE BILLS


DOD MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT

S.1487.  To establish a demonstration project to provide that the Department
of Defense may receive Medicare reimbursement for health care services
provided to certain Medicare-eligible covered military beneficiaries.
(McCain) Finance.

ERISA

S.1490.  To amend Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 to improve enforcement of such title and benefit security for
participants by adding certain provisions with respect to the auditing of
employee benefit plans, and for other purposes.  (Simon) Labor & Human
Resources.

NSAIDS

S.1496.  To grant certain patent rights for certain non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs for a two-year period.  (Simon) Judiciary.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

HOUSE BILLS


PREMIUM REDUCTION

H.R.2805.  To amend Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to reduce the
amount of the premium charged for enrollment in Part A of the Medicare program
for individuals 80 years of age or older.  (Stark) Ways & Means.

VETERAN COMPENSATION

H.R.2813.  To ensure that payments during fiscal year 1996 of compensation for
veterans with service-connected disabilities, of dependency and indemnity
compensation for survivors of such veterans, and of other veterans' benefits,
and payments to Department of Veterans' Affairs contractors providing services
directly related to patient health and safety, are made regardless of
Government financial shortfalls.  (Hutchinson) Appropriations.

VA MEDICAL FACILITIES

H.R.2814.  To authorize major medical facility projects and major medical
facility leases for the Department of Veterans' Affairs for fiscal year 1996,
and for other purposes.  (Stump) Veterans' Affairs.

VA AMBULATORY CARE

H.R.2831.  To authorize establishment of a Department of Veterans' Affairs
ambulatory care facility in Brookhaven NY.  (Forbes) Veterans' Affairs.

HEALTH CARE BENEFITS

H.R.2836.  To provide increased access to health care benefits, to provide
increased portability of health care benefits, to provide increased security
of health care benefits, to increase the purchasing power of individuals and
small employers, and for other purposes.  (Roukema) Commerce.

MEDICARE PHARMACEUTICALS

H.R.2839.  To amend Title XVIII of the Social Security Act to establish a
medication evaluation and dispensing system for Medicare beneficiaries, to
improve the quality of pharmaceutical services received by our nation's
elderly and disabled, and to reduce instances of adverse reactions to
prescription drugs experienced by Medicare beneficiaries.  (Stark) Ways &
Means.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH RECORD via NewsNet
JANUARY 1, 1996

Calendar


AACC 1996 MEETINGS

The American Association for Clinical Chemistry, Inc.  will hold the following
meetings in 1996:

* February 4-5, Arnold O.  Beckman Conference, "Drugs and Toxins in Clinical
Laboratory Practice," Wyndham Emerald Plaza, San Diego CA; * March 5, "Taking
Charge of Point-of-Care Testing," McLean Hilton, Washington DC; * April 10-12,
Oak Ridge Conference, Tomorrow's Technology Today, "New and Advanced
Technology for the Clinical Laboratory," Fairmont Hotel, San Jose CA; * April
17, "Taking Charge of Point-of-Care Testing," Holiday Inn - O'Hare
International, Chicago IL; * May 8, "Taking Charge of Point-of-Care Testing,"
Sheraton Newport Beach, Newport Beach CA; * May 14-15, Laboratory 2000
Conference, Sheraton Gateway Suites Hotel, Chicago IL; * July 28-August 1,
48th AACC Annual Meeting & Clinical Laboratory Exposition, McCormack Place,
Chicago IL; * October 1996, Video/audio conference, "Strategies for Survival:
How Laboratorians Must Reengineer To Cope with New Laboratory Needs; *
November 1996, Clinical Chemistry Forum; and * November 21-23, San Diego
Conference on Nucleic Acids, San Diego CA.  Information:  Peggy Abbott,
800/892-1400.


To order individual copies of the "Federal Register," send $4.50 to:
Superindendent of Documents, GPO, Washington, DC 20402; 202/512-0132.

For a free copy of a House bill or report, send a self-addressed mailing label
to House Document Room, B-18, Ford Building, Washington, DC 20515.  For a free
copy of a Senate bill or report, send a self-addressed mailing label to Senate
Document Room SHB04, Washington, DC 20510.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-23</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-362</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh42.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023718 text/html 26370
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:35:23 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:16 GMT
Content-length: 26181
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh42.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet <BR>
January 11, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>APA STUDY ENCOURAGES PSYCHOLOGICAL STRATEGIES FOR COST CONTROL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(202 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>MEDICARE MARKETERS FEEL HCFA'S CRACKDOWN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(609 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>ADVERTISING</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>ONLINE HEALTH SERVICES OFFER TARGET MARKETING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(902 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>CASE STUDY NO. 78:  MARKETING</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>MARKETERS USE LEGACY OF OLYMPIC STAR IN CAMPAIGN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(422 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS BRIEFS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>HHS RELEASES PSA ON AIDS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>GHHA CAMPAIGN COUNTERS CRITICISM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(56 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>U.S. HEALTHCARE SATURATES CHARLOTTE MARKET </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(205 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>UPCOMING EVENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(45 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>TOOL BOX</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>KIOSKS EFFECTIVE TOOL FOR HEALTHCARE MARKETERS </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(516 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>MARKETING</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>DIRECT MAIL WORKS WITH SENIOR MEDICARE MARKET</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(218 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

APA STUDY ENCOURAGES PSYCHOLOGICAL STRATEGIES FOR COST CONTROL

     A new study by the American Psychological Association (APA) shows
communications specialists can affect their hospital's bottom line by
encouraging physicians and other medical staff to use self-help
tactics in their demand management programs. 
     "There is growing evidence that addressing the multiple
psychosocial reasons that prompt patients to visit physicians can be
both health- and cost- effective," said Doug Fizel, public affairs
specialist for the APA. 
     "For example, there are patient-specific and disease-specific
communication intervention strategies that can be integrated into
clinical care with the same degree of scientific credibility as
pharmaceutical or surgical interventions." 
     An overall psychological and behavioral management communications
strategy can be used effectively in concert with increased sensitivity
to psychiatric disorders to achieve cost savings, he said. 
     The underlying reasons patients visit physicians are multi-
faceted and often influenced strongly by psychological factors and
behavioral variables, said the study. 
     Acknowledging the success of self-help can have a significant
impact on the type of care given, the efficacy of that care and,
importantly, the bottom line cost of that care, it notes. 
     Improving medical care and reducing medical costs, assert the
authors of the study, can best be accomplished by integrating
psychiatric, psychological, behavioral, and biomedical evaluations and
interventions.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

MEDICARE MARKETERS FEEL HCFA'S CRACKDOWN

     HMOs targeting the Medicare population must conform to a battery
of new federal requirements, including submitting their marketing
plans to the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) at least 45
days before materials are distributed.
      In the agency's new crackdown on Medicare risk contracts, con-
tractors also will have to provide clear, written descriptions of
their plans for Medicare beneficiaries; notify the public about
enrollment periods; and inform prospective enrollees that contracts
with HCFA may be terminated compliance with the requirements is not
found.
    HCFA, which only recently released its requirements, will supply a
marketing model to contractors upon request and has stipulated that
minor deviations can derail or delay a marketing plan.  
     Medicare-risk contractors would be wise to pay particular
attention to HCFA's "report cards" on, or assessments of, a
contractor's marketing materials, cautioned Lynn Shapiro Snyder, an
attorney with the Washington, D.C., firm of Epstein Becker & Green.

Required and Prohibited Marketing Activities 

     Prohibited marketing activities under HCFA's regulations include
discrimination based on health status; intentionally confusing
beneficiaries; dispensing gifts or payments of above $10 to encourage
enrollment, door-to-door solicitations, and distribution of marketing
materials not approved by HCFA. 
     Violations range from $25,000 to $100,000 per abuse.  A
contractor also can be prohibited from continuing to accept enrollment
applications and payments for enrolled beneficiaries, and may be asked
to cease marketing activities. 
     Medicare-risk contractors must use care in selecting marketing
agents for their plans and should avoid using physicians.  Physicians,
Snyder noted, often are unaware of membership plans' benefits and
costs.
     In addition, a physician's "inside knowledge" of the patient's
health increases the potential for discrimination in favor of
healthier beneficiaries when acting as a marketing agent--a prohibited
marketing activity, Snyder said.
     The best way to avoid such problems:  "Tell your doctors not to
talk about 
Medicare risk contracts," Snyder said.  "Let the marketing department
do that." 
     Taking care with their marketing practices will help contractors
avoid problems that potentially could reflect badly on their status,
said Geraldine Dallek, executive director of the Los Angeles based
Center for Health Care Rights (CHCR).
     "The experiences of CHCR's Health Insurance Counseling and
Advocacy Program (HICAP) and other HICAP programs throughout
California are reflective of very serious problems in the
risk-contracting program that must be addressed," said Dallek whose
group in 1993 published a study on marketing, quality of care and due
process protections in Medicare risk-contract HMOs.
     
Some of the problems the study cited were:
     *  Poorly trained marketing agents; 
     *  Inappropriate financial incentives inherent in the
commission-based compensation of marketing agents; 
     *  Marketing fraud/abuse resulting from these problems; 
     *  Lack of marketing materials in an enrollee's primary language;
and,
     *  HMO delays in disenrolling Medicare members. 

     In a number of documented instances, HMO employees have lied to
prospective Medicare enrollees about the benefits of HMO enrollment,
pressured them to join, enrolled individuals who were unable to make
an informed enrollment decision, and obtained enrollment signatures
under false pretenses, Dallek said. 
     Generally, these problems are prevalent in geographic areas where
beneficiaries have little experience with Medicare HMOs, in areas of
fierce competition for Medicare enrollees, and with HMOs inexperienced
in marketing to this population. 
     Many HMOs pay their marketing agents a commission for each new
Medicare enrollee.  Without proper training and oversight, this
compensation system is a recipe for disaster. 
     For example, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, Los Angeles
County Medicare beneficiaries were subjected to massive marketing
fraud by one HMO, she said.
      "Although HCFA was slow to react to this problem, once the
agency took strong action, the HMO changed its agent compensation
system and significantly increased agent training and oversight," said
Dallek.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

ONLINE HEALTH SERVICES OFFER TARGET MARKETING

     Providers of healthcare services and pharmaceutical may now be
able to promote their wares by tapping into the interactive healthcare
communications service "Better Health & Medical Forum" on America
Online. 
        Health ResponseAbility Systems Inc. (HRS), a pioneer in
developing online and interactive healthcare communications, started
the Better Health Medical Forum on America Online (keyword: Better
Health), one of the fastest growing areas (with almost 1.4 million
visits per month).
     Under an agreement with Hill and Knowlton Public Relations in New
York City, the company will seek to increase awareness of the forum
and open opportunities for corporate sponsors to underwrite expansion
of the services.
     Corporate sponsors will be able to link advertising and marketing
materials to appropriate areas and to sponsor chat rooms or
informational sites.
     The forum is an easy-to-use, searchable health and medical
information database and service that facilitates "real-time"
communication and information exchange with hundreds of thousands of
individuals across the nation.      
     "Some of the benefits of sponsoring a site is having a captive,
alive audience that is interested in your information.  It is target
marketing," said Allen Douma, creator of HRS.
     For example, Douma said, a pharmaceutical company that spends
thousands of dollars in television advertising for a certain
medication may do better on-line by targeting a select group of
patients that would be interested in it. 
     "We have a very strong community of people who are seeking health
information," said Douma. 
     Although Better Health is one of the most popular sites at AOL,
Douma expects to see a four-fold increase in the number of visits next
year.  
     The forum embraces an integrated, synergistic approach to
informing, motivating and supporting individuals in making more
informed choices about factors that influence health and well-being,
from personal decisions such as lifestyle and self-care, to national
decisions such as health reform, said Elin Silveous, co-founder of the
service.  Silveous started the forum when she discovered she had
multiple sclerosis but could not find an online support group.     
     The forum also offers full-text documents and downloadable
software files spanning the continuum of health topics, from lifestyle
and prevention, to rehabilitation and long-term care.
       
     Following are some of the features the Better Health & Medical
Forum includes:

--  More than 50 Message Boards (See complete list below.  Each
message board can contain up to 50 folders.  Each folder can contain
up to 500 messages.);

--  Thirty five Community Health Forums as part of the Personal
Empowerment Network; 

--  MEDLINE, the world's leading bibliographic database complied by
the National Library of Medicine;

--  Shopping Services (for health educational and related items);

--  Forums for Voluntary Health and Disability Related Organizations,
including: the American Cancer Society, American Diabetes Association
and American Lung Association;

--  Four chat rooms in which more than 250 "LIVE" mutual support and
self-help group meetings or health professional networking meetings
are held each month; and, 

--  Numerous Software Libraries 

    Within the Better Health & Medical Forum, HRS has embedded a
number of additional information and support sources, such as the
Personal Empowerment Network (PEN) and MEDLINE.
     PEN is a community in which members reach out and help one
another in dealing with life's challenges and with the personal--and
sometimes difficult decisions--that influence health and quality of
life.
     PEN offers more than 30 areas of medical special interest,
linking AOL members with information and access to the web.  MEDLINE
provides members with easy-to-use, low-cost access to the database of
the National Library of Medicine.  To obtain free software and free
trial time to peruse the Better Health & Medical Forum, members can
call 1-800-531-2626.


(EDITOR'S NOTE: This week's Ask Your Colleague explores easy ways to
develop a communications plan during a merger or acquisition.
HCPRMN asked Paula Lovell, president of Lovell Communications in
Nashville, Tenn., for her tips.)

What are the first steps in developing an overall communications plan?

     "The most important step to remember is to be in the information
pipe line.  Being part of the management group that is dealing with
the merger first hand will help in getting a handle on the
information. 
     You should get the information first in order to assimilate it
into a communications plan.  By being a member of the "project team"
assigned with working on the merger--you can be in the loop because if
you don't, the information could potentially be leaked.
      The second step is to identify target audiences--Board of
Trustees, stakeholders, stockholders, volunteers, fundraisers, media,
patients and families, physicians and managed-care organizations.
     Then develop a core message and a rationale for merger for each
group. 
     Also, identify the single best ways to communicate your message
with memos, personal phone calls, press releases, advertising,
hospital meetings and advertising.
     Also develop your own communications team--a different team from
the "project team" with your own worker bees. 
     The CEO and the CFO of the hospital would be part of the team. 
He needs to be aware of his role and be provided with press releases
as well as be advised about potential confusion, morale issues, public
empathy for disgruntled employees. 
     He also needs to be prepared for competitors in managed care and
what it means to the business."

When is the best time for an announcement?
     
     "Ideally if you are an organization in the private sector, at the
time the letter of intent is signed, an announcement should be made." 



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

MARKETERS USE LEGACY OF OLYMPIC STAR IN CAMPAIGN

    Capitalizing on the legacy of Olympic athlete and Oklahoma native,
Jim Thorpe, Integris Health's Southwest Medical Center in Oklahoma
City has retained a 95 percent occupancy and attracted younger and
more affluent patients at its new rehabilitation center.
     Not long after the campaign was launched, the referral rate goals
for the Jim Thorpe Rehabilitation Hospital of six to seven new names a
month were surpassed by 30 percent and three months ahead of schedule.
     "A center of excellence was established as evidenced by patients
asking their physicians to refer them to Jim Thorpe," said Sam
Armstrong-Lopez, marketing director for Integris Health.
     The campaign promoted a consistent and unified message of triumph
over adversity in all of its components. 
     Words like "drive, determination, success, legacy and desire,"
which symbolize the Jim Thorpe legacy, were threaded through all
pieces of the campaign."
     "The positive image garnished from the Jim Thorpe Rehabilitation
Hospital campaign will serve as the base for other marketing efforts,"
said Lopez. 
"We will make strides in image enhancements and generate revenue in
other areas for a "halo effect" from the successful launch of the
hospital."
     The $280,000 campaign, which focused on Thorpe's life, used a
multi-phased approach to market assessment and strategy. 
     Phase I, which occurred in the summer of 1994, was a six-step
process that focused on strategic, creative and action-plan
development. 
     Phase II, entailed the print and television production process. 
Some of the photography took place in Denver, including footage
recreating Thorpe as a young athlete. 
     The hospital even went to great effort to find antique athletic
gear and period props for the scenes. 
     Photographs of Thorpe were borrowed from the family and the
Thorpe estate.
     To reach an audience most apt to use or contribute to the
hospital, the campaign--launched two weeks before the rehabilitation
center's grand opening--included print ads touting an open house and
testimonials, an outpatient brochure, physician direct mail series,
patient and volunteer medals and television spots.
     "A pieces approach with an ad here and a brochure there would
have done little to properly position a new rehabilitation hospital. 
Through a comprehensive effort, we were able to leverage the
individual components into a whole that was stronger than the sum of
the parts," said Lopez.   
     "The Jim Thorpe legacy and message of hope, triumph and
overcoming obstacles was versatile enough to reach all of our
audiences as exhibited by the applicability of the creative to the
direct-mail series, brochures and video, community and donor-directed
print ads, patient directed medals and the T.V. spots," Lopez added.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

HHS RELEASES PSA ON AIDS

     Amid troubling new evidence of the toll AIDS continues to take on
America's young adults, the Department of Health and Human Services
released a new series of public service announcements urging young
Americans to take personal responsibility for protecting themselves
from HIV.
     The new PSAs entitled "Respect Yourself, Protect Yourself," were
produced by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  It
shows young adults talking candidly about their sex lives. Young
adults who are HIV educators and service providers, as well as members
of the target audience, worked closely with CDC and its partners to
create the PSAs.
     HHS Secretary Donna Shalala cited data that identify both the
increase in HIV-related deaths among young adults and the ongoing risk
of new HIV infections.  In 1994, AIDS became the leading cause of
death among 25- to 44-year-olds, increasing from 37,000 to 42,000.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

GHHA CAMPAIGN COUNTERS CRITICISM

     The Group Health Association of America (GHHA), a Washington-
based managed-care trade group, is planning a campaign to
counteroffense media criticism.  The GHAA is expected to release
details about the effort this month.
     Popular TV series like "ER" have mentioned HMOs negatively, while
surveys have shown that HMO enrollees are satisfied with their quality
of healthcare.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

U.S. HEALTHCARE SATURATES CHARLOTTE MARKET 

     Two months after receiving the go-ahead to operate in Charlotte,
N.C., U.S. Healthcare Inc. is living up to its reputation as an
aggressive marketer. 
     The $2.8-billion health maintenance organization has 
saturated the Charlotte market, even the sides of buses.
     "It's pretty typical of what we do," says Vaughan Delk, general
manager for U.S. Healthcare of the Carolinas Inc. 
        "Part of what we're doing is name recognition.  We're not a
household name yet in the Charlotte market, but we certainly plan on
being one."  
      To do so, the Blue Bell, Pa.-based HMO -- which counts more than
2 million members -- took out two-page ads in The Business Journal and
The Charlotte Observer announcing its arrival.  "The Whole Town's
Jumpin' As Charlotte Welcomes
U.S. Healthcare," its first ad read, only days after receiving
approval from state regulators. 
      One media reporting service estimates the HMO spent $155,000 on
TV spots in Charlotte in October alone.  In Atlanta, the HMO devoted
nearly $1.2 million to its marketing efforts in a quarter, according
to a statement filed with the Georgia Insurance Department. That total
includes salaries for a staff of about 20.  By comparison, Kaiser
Permanente, Georgia's largest HMO, reports spending $5.4 million on
marketing in all of 1994.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

UPCOMING EVENTS

Feb. 11-14: Society for Healthcare Planning & Marketing's "National
Managed Care Forum," San Diego, Calif. (708-698-4137)
Feb. 20-30: Healthcare Strategies Institute's "Integrated Delivery
Systems: Building Successful Payer-Provider Relationships,"
Scottsdale, Ariz.
March 3-6: Alliance for Healthcare Strategy and Marketing's "1996
Annual Conference," New Orleans, La. (602-990-7839)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

KIOSKS EFFECTIVE TOOL FOR HEALTHCARE MARKETERS 

     The newest tool in healthcare marketing is the use of interactive
kiosks or "ATMs" for marketing programs.
         Market research firm Intelco Corp., based in Norwalk, Conn.,
predicts that the number of installed multi-media kiosks will grow 69
percent this year from 125,000 units last year to a total of 211,000
units.
        Blue Cross Blue Shield in Massachusetts (BCBSMA), for example,
has a group of kiosks called "Health Navigator" which allow a
company's employees to view information about various health insurance
plans, select a plan and even select a preferred doctor.
     "It is a virtual-reality customer service center in a kiosk which
uses attractive graphics, high-quality digital video, sound and
animation to communicate with the consumer," said Ethel Shepard,
BCBSMA spokesperson.
     The Health Navigator kiosk is transportable and provides a
variety of essential healthcare information, ranging from primary care
physician directories, prescription and over-the-counter drug
information, wellness surveys and health and wellness articles.
     In addition, members can easily obtain a print-out of their
member profile and can even change their primary care physician by
selecting the "Members Only" function and swiping a member ID card.
     "Health Navigator reflects our growing confidence in technology
to meet the needs of our customers," said William Van Fassen, BCBSMA
president.  "We are entering a new era for health care and healthcare
technology.  This system will lower our administrative costs and
provide critical health information for our customers when and where
they need it." 
     An interactive video host guides the user through the available
options; the user requests information via a touch-screen monitor.  
     The kiosk provides laser quality print-outs as well as a phone
handset for using a touch screen monitor.  It also provides laser
quality print-outs for direct access to BCBSMA customer service
representatives.
     Greg Swistak, president of Factura Inc., a kiosk maker based in
Rochester, N.Y., believes his company's kiosk sales will grow 50
percent.  The company has installed 30 percent of the 100,000 kiosks
now in operation in the United States.  Swistak created the BCBSMA
kiosk.
     Health Navigator leverages the health information highway
technologies that are already in place--connecting health care
providers and the business communities and BCBSMA's mainframes, said
Shepard. 
     Kiosks may be expensive depending on their capabilities.  The
minimum cost is $750, and a touchscreen monitor is between $700 and
$1,000. 
     A personal computer which sits inside the kiosk may cost about
$1,500 and a printing device could add another $1,000.  Depending on
the choice of hardware, an individual kiosk may cost between $4,000
and $20,000.  And then there is also the cost of designing the
software to interact with a kiosk user which depends 
on a company's computer expertise.  

     Some of the information available on the Healthcare Navigator
kiosk includes:

     *  Descriptions of available health plans;
     *  Information about such special programs as safety helmet
discounts, health fitness network, Caring Program for Children,
preventive time lines for adults and children, fitness and eyewear
networks, Living Healthy Books and Living Healthy Magazine.
     *  Primary Care Physicians Directories, which provide users with
an up-to-date list of available and appropriate PCP's located near
their homes or work.   



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE PR & MARKETING NEWS via NewsNet
January 11, 1996

DIRECT MAIL WORKS WITH SENIOR MEDICARE MARKET

     When selling Medicare risk products to the senior and baby boomer
market, traditional marketing techniques such as seminars may not lead
to success.
         "Medicare risk products present a very new challenge. 
Marketers must learn to target their senior market one by one,
recognizing the needs of the individual, not a group," said John
Harrison, president of DiMark Inc., a database marketing outsource
company, in Langhorne, Pa.
     "It is in this venue that a database marketing strategy, and the
use of direct marketing techniques, will make the difference between
success and failure in Medicare risk marketing."
     A database marketing strategy allows Medicare risk marketers to
collect marketing data on an individual prospect or customer basis, to
respond to the needs of their customers.
     Direct marketing provides the tools to implement a database
marketing strategy.
     "Insurance marketers have traditionally relied on a two-tiered
approach, utilizing personal sales and seminars to attract and sell
prospects.  When a marketer, however, adds direct marketing to the
mix, a dual purpose is served," said Harrison. "These techniques
provide a means of targeting the senior market and, in some cases,
successfully enrolling these individuals through a one-step sales
process.
     For the balance of the market, which relies on the personal touch
of seminars and sales representatives, direct-response techniques
offer a cost-effective means of generating leads.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-24</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B010-388</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh11.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023745 text/html 31229
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:35:52 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:03 GMT
Content-length: 31040
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh11.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet <BR>
January 5, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>DOJ GIVES SEAL OF APPROVAL TO THREE PROVIDER NETWORKS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(517 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>BUSINESS BRIEFS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>HOSPITAL SATISFACTION WITH JCAHCO IMPROVING, ACCORDING TO&nbsp;AHA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(150 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>BAXTER INTERNATIONAL TO CREATE TWO $5-BILLION FIRMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(97 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>MERGER OF MARYMOUNT, CLEVELAND CLINIC RECEIVES NEEDED&nbsp;APPROVALS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(126 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>ST. JUDE MEDICAL INKS PREFERRED PROVIDER PACT&nbsp;WITH COLUMBIA/HCA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(89 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>FTC DECIDES TO DROP CHALLENGE OF MISSOURI HOSPITAL MERGER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(135 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>TENET FORMS EQUIPMENT-MANAGEMENT PROGRAM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(100 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>MEDICAL RESOURCE NETWORK, ANTHEM COMPLETE PARTNERSHIP&nbsp;AGREEMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(56 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>JOHNS HOPKINS, HUMANA TEAM TO BUILD MD. MCO NETWORK</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(382 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>MD.'S MATERNITY LOS LAW ISN'T BOOSTING HOSPITAL STAYS, SOME&nbsp;SAY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(420 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>EXPECT MORE COMPETITION, CAPITATION, CONSOLIDATION IN 1996,&nbsp;EXPERT SAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1733 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>HOSPITAL'S ELECTRONIC NURSING STATION GIVES DOCS OFF-SITE&nbsp;VIEW OF PATIENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(256 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

DOJ GIVES SEAL OF APPROVAL TO THREE PROVIDER NETWORKS

Federal antitrust authorities have given the okay to three
provider networks, including one that would represent nearly
50% of the dermatologists in its market.

South Carolina dermatologists will be allowed to form a
network to contract with managed care organizations to
provide skin services currently being provided by
internists, general and family practitioners and other
specialists.  In two other decisions, DOJ okayed a plan by
Florida dermatologists, plastic surgeons and
dermatopathologists to form a network and agreed to allow a
Georgia foot care network to act as an intermediary for
soliciting and managing managed care contracts between its
members and third-party payers.

DOJ says the non-exclusive South Carolina dermatology
network will allow 85 board-certified dermatologists to
contract with managed care plans at competitive rates for
dermatologic services commonly provided by other types of
doctors.

Based on the assumption that the number of network
dermatologists in any local market will not exceed 30% of
all doctors available to provide the same kinds of services,
the Justice Department's antitrust division says it is
unlikely that network members would attain market power or
cause anticompetitive effects.

Even with 44% of market, network earns DOJ okay

In another ruling, the antitrust division last month decided
to allow a group of south Florida dermatologists, plastic
surgeons and dermatopathologists to form a joint network to
provide comprehensive services to third-party payers.

Dermnet Inc. will provide services in Dade, Broward and Palm
Beach counties.  "By offering more choices and greater
efficiency, Dermnet might inject a healthy dose of
competition in these markets," said Anne Bingaman, assistant
attorney general for antitrust.

Bingaman's letter said that Dermnet's operations, while
representing around 44% of board-certified dermatologists in
the area, are not likely to result in anticompetitive
effects.  The network presents sufficient safeguards, she
writes, to prevent threats to competition for dermatology
services in the market.

Dermnet's members will share substantial financial risk
through capitation, and the network will be non-exclusive,
Bingaman says.  In addition, large healthcare payers in the
area expressed no competitive concerns about the proposal,
instead viewing it as a possible way to enhance efficiency,
she says.

A Georgia foot care network will be allowed to act as an
intermediary for soliciting and managing managed care
contracts between its members and third-party payers under a
third proposal granted approval by DOJ.

The proposed non-exclusive network will be open to any
member of the Georgia Podiatric Medical Association.  The
network, which will be called Georgia Preferred Podiatric
Medical Network, represents 92 of the state's 212
podiatrists.

The department said the proposed activities are not likely
to be anticompetitive because the network will function as a
facilitator of managed care contracting between its members
and payers.  The network will not negotiate fees on behalf
of its members, and members will be prohibited from
discussing contract terms among themselves.

In addition, the department said the discussions that payers
may request with the network's agent concerning non-price
issues may be efficiency-enhancing, because they may assist
health plans in developing effective standards of care and
cost controls.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

HOSPITAL SATISFACTION WITH JCAHCO IMPROVING, ACCORDING TO
AHA

Overall hospital satisfaction is increasing with the on-site
survey process of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organization, according to the second in a series
of national opinion polls conducted for the American
Hospital Association.  Satisfaction with the pre-survey
process increased as well.  But hospitals reported
increasing dissatisfaction with the time needed to get
written accreditation reports after their on-site surveys.
The poll, conducted by the National Research Corp. of
Lincoln, Neb., was mailed in November to 660 hospitals that
had been evaluated by the Joint Commission from May 20 to
Sept. 30, 1995.  Three hundred and thirty-four responded.
Data for the first poll in the series was gathered in
August.  The polls seek to identify the reasons why
hospitals want Joint Commission accreditation; to assess
hospitals' level of support for the accreditation process
and to learn which areas of that process need improvement.
Contact AHA at (202)638-1100.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

BAXTER INTERNATIONAL TO CREATE TWO $5-BILLION FIRMS

Baxter International's board of directors has approved a
plan to create two $5-billion entities, a global medical-
technology company and a healthcare cost management company.
The medical technology firm will continue to be known as
Baxter International Inc.  It will consist of the company's
high-growth medical technology and international businesses,
which include biotechnology, renal therapy, cardiovascular
medicine, international hospital and intravenous systems.
The healthcare cost management company will consist of
Baxter's cost management, U.S. distribution and surgical
products operations and will provide an array of products
and cost-saving services to healthcare providers.  Contact
Baxter at (708)948-2875.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

MERGER OF MARYMOUNT, CLEVELAND CLINIC RECEIVES NEEDED
APPROVALS

An agreement initiated last year to merge Marymount Hospital
and the Cleveland Clinic Foundation has received all needed
approvals and was signed.  Working together, the two
organizations will have a collaborative approach to sharing
clinical and educational information, research, technology
and managed care responsibilities.  They will function as a
single economic entity with a common bottom line.  Marymount
will remain a Catholic hospital, and its mission, philosophy
and

values will be preserved.  Marymount, founded by the Sisters
of St. Joseph of the Third Order of St. Francis in 1949,
will continue to be sponsored by the Sisters, who will
participate in its governance.  For more information,
contact Mary Parsons of Marymount Hospital at (216)587-8213
or Holli Birrer of the Cleveland Clinic Foundation at
(216)44-0141.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

ST. JUDE MEDICAL INKS PREFERRED PROVIDER PACT
WITH COLUMBIA/HCA

St. Jude Medical Inc., St. Paul. Minn., has signed a supply
agreement with Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.  Under the
agreement, St. Jude Medical's heart valve division and
Pacesetter, its cardiac rhythm management business, have
additional access to all Columbia/HCA accounts.  The
agreement is in force from October 1995 to the end of 1996,
with a renewal option for 1997.  Pacesetter has been under
contract with Columbia/HCA since 1994.  The company says it
expects continued growth with the new contract.  For
details, contact Paul Vetter, St. Jude Medical,  at
(612)481-7791.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

FTC DECIDES TO DROP CHALLENGE OF MISSOURI HOSPITAL MERGER

The Federal Trade Commission unanimously decided to drop its
case challenging the merger of two Missouri hospitals on
antitrust grounds.  "The decision not to pursue the Freeman
and Oak Hill hospitals case marks the first time that the
FTC has used the new rule it adopted to review and dismiss a
pending case after reconsidering it," says Thomas Campbell,
a hospital antitrust attorney representing the Joplin
hospitals.  The five FTC commissioners unanimously announced
the dismissal of the case after being denied a preliminary
injunction Nov. 1 by the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals in St.
Louis.  Previously, U.S. District Judge Dean Whipple in
Kansas City issued an opinion and, after holding an
evidentiary hearing in Joplin, concluded that the FTC's
evidence did not meet the requirements for a preliminary
injunction.  Contact Campbell at (312)245-8425.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

TENET FORMS EQUIPMENT-MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

Tenet Healthcare Corp., Santa Monica, Calif., has formed a
comprehensive equipment-management program projected to save
the company more than $13 million over the next three years.
The program, which oversees all equipment-maintenance
contracts -- will be implemented in the company's 75 acute
care hospitals.  The program will employ three major
strategies to reduce costs:  development of a centralized
database for all existing major maintenance contracts;
moving away from long-term, noncancelable agreements and
development of uniform terms and conditions for all
maintenance contracts; and assignment of selective equipment
maintenance to one of two independent service organizations.
Call Tenet at (310)998-4000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

MEDICAL RESOURCE NETWORK, ANTHEM COMPLETE PARTNERSHIP
AGREEMENT

Medical Resource Network and Anthem Health Plans have
completed formation of a partnership that they say will
offer Georgians "cost-effective access to quality
healthcare."  The partnership will do business as Anthem
Health Plan of Georgia.  MRN is an 18-member Georgia health
system consisting of physicians and healthcare systems
located in every major community in Georgia.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

JOHNS HOPKINS, HUMANA TEAM TO BUILD MD. MCO NETWORK

Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins HealthCare will team with HMO
giant Humana Inc., Louisville, Ky., to capture more managed
care business in Maryland and build the foundation for a
five-state health plan.

The alliance gives Johns Hopkins' network building efforts a
big boost, and should mean more managed care tertiary care
business for the system's flagship, Johns Hopkins Hospital.

For Humana, the deal could jump-start its entry into the
wider Maryland market, where its business now is limited to
metropolitan Washington, D.C.

Humana's subsidiary Humana Group Health Plan Inc.,
Washington, will soon move into the Baltimore market.  The
HMO plans to follow that growth with a push into Delaware,
Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania.

Deal means more tertiary care business for Johns Hopkins

Johns Hopkins has much to gain, too, says Michele Deverich,
vice president of product and network development for Johns
Hopkins HealthCare, notably increased business in tertiary
care.

Humana will use and expand physician networks Johns Hopkins
has established, such as pediatrics and cardiology, and will
work with the health system to form other provider and
ancillary networks.

"Every bit of market share Humana garners will flow through
our network, and all tertiary care is pointed in the
direction of Hopkins," Deverich says.  With the network that
Humana and Hopkins will develop, the HMO will never need to
send a patient out of that system, she predicts.

Partnership boosts Humana's metro D.C. efforts

The two partners could prove to be a good match.  Two years
ago, Humana took over the Washington-based Group Health
Association, one of the oldest HMOs in the country.  With
the rechristened Humana Group Health's enrollment stalled at
around 120,000 members since the purchase, Humana is ready
to boost its fortunes through expansion outside the
Washington market.  And Hopkins sees an opportunity to grab
more primary care business for the provider networks it's
building.

"We realized we needed a strong presence in the primary care
market," says Deverich.  But "this is not an effort to get
bread-and-butter care into Johns Hopkins.  Our goal is no to
drive every appendectomy and normal [baby] delivery to Johns
Hopkins."  Primary care will be channeled to a nine-hospital
Maryland network, Atlantic Health Alliance.

Call Ron Sauder, of Johns Hopkins, at (410)955-5384.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

MD.'S MATERNITY LOS LAW ISN'T BOOSTING HOSPITAL STAYS, SOME
SAY

Maryland's pioneering mandatory maternity length of stay law
is having little effect on hospital stays because of a
loophole, state providers say.

In the legislation, insurers are given the option of
allowing an extra day in the hospital beyond the now-
standard 24 hours or paying for a home visit by a nurse.
The much-cheaper home visits are winning by a landslide.

"If it's $1,000 for an extra day in the hospital and $100 to
send a nurse, in every instance the insurer has a choice of
spending $100 or $1,000, and they're going to choose the
lesser amount," says Mark Seigel, an obstetrician who is
president of the Montgomery County Medical Society in
suburban Washington.

"If I don't send a patient home after one day, the patient's
going to get a bill for that extra day," Seigel says.

Maryland was the first state to approve maternity stay
legislation, and was followed closely by New Jersey and
North Carolina.  The Maryland law took effect Oct. 1.

The legislation requires insurers to cover maternity stays
in accordance with the medical criteria outlined in
"Guidelines for Perinatal Care," published jointly by the
American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists.

The guidelines recommend a 48-hour hospital stay following
normal vaginal delivery, but allow for shorter stays if
criteria for medical stability are met.  In cases where the
mother and her physician agree to discharge prior to 48
hours, the Maryland law requires an initial home visit that
includes metabolic screening for the infant.

The Maryland Hospital Association says it does not yet have
statewide information on the length of hospital stays for
childbirth during October, when the law took effect.

But Seigel and other physicians say that insurers are not
giving them the option of choosing the extra day in the
hospital over the home visit.

Insurers have not lengthened hospital stays -- despite the
new law -- because they need to save money somewhere,
according to Robert Sheff, president of HMOs for Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Maryland.  If insurers allow new mothers to
stay in the hospital longer, they will have to take benefits
from someone else, he says.

Maryland physician organizations will press for amending the
law during the next session to close the loophole, Seigel
says, adding, "The details can be worked out.  It's just a
question of coming up with the right language."

Contact Seigel at (301)921-4300 and Sheff at (410)581-3000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

EXPECT MORE COMPETITION, CAPITATION, CONSOLIDATION IN 1996,
EXPERT SAYS

The healthcare market will begin changing dramatically in
1996 as payers demand and get lower prices, predicts Russell
C. Coile, Jr., president of the Health Forecasting Group,
Santa Clarita, Calif.

Competition, capitation and consolidation are in the
forefront of the forces that will drive health trends in the
post-reconciliation era beginning in 1996.  It's all part of
the re-engineering of the American healthcare market,
propelled by payers -- employers, business coalitions, and
government -- who are demanding and getting lower prices and
reduced expenditures from the healthcare sector.

The year ahead will be a war over the premium.  Price wars
between HMOs and insurers are expanding on a national basis.
The decline in HMO/insurance premiums is triggering a wave
of health industry consolidations and deeply slashed
provider payments.  Angered by the cuts, physicians and
hospitals are organizing their own provider-sponsored
networks and fighting back.  The year ahead will be a battle
between providers and payers to control more of the
shrinking premium.

Purchasers will win, providers will lose

Purchasers and government health programs are "winners,"
delighted that national health inflation is coming down.
Corporate health benefit costs rose only 2% from 1994 to
1995, due to widespread switching by employers to managed
care.  Employer-sponsored health costs were one-third below
the level of consumer inflation, according to the
Philadelphia-based Hay Group.

Health plans and providers will be "losers," as price
competition starts a downward spiral for HMO profits and
provider payments.  For the first time in a decade, medical
care prices slipped down to the level of overall consumer
inflation, rising only 0.3% in October 1995, the Wall Street
Journal says.

Managed care and employer-driven price competition are
slashing health costs.  As recently as 1988, the nation's
healthcare prices were soaring at an annual rate of 14%.
Government payment cuts and private-sector competition are
looming for 1996.  Impacts of those trends will ripple
across America's $1 trillion health system, affecting every
hospital, physician, health plan and consumer.

Premium warfare coming

Economic competition between providers and payers --
HMOs/insurers -- over control of the premium could turn ugly
in 1996.  All buyers -- employers, business coalitions and
government programs -- are driving cost competition among
HMOs and insurers.  In 1995, HMO prices fell by 1.2%.  The
down cycle is not over.  Early signals for HMO prices
indicate that health plan premiums will range from no
increases to 2% to 3% rollbacks from 1995 price levels.

In Northern California, which is an emerging "Stage Five"
market including many metropolitan areas with more than 40%
HMO enrollment, the average health plan premium has shrunk
50% in a 10-year period, from $2,460 per enrollee for a
managed care plan in 1986 to $1,260 for HMO coverage in
1995, according to Steve McDermott, CEO of PriMed Inc. and
executive director of the Hill Medical Group, in San Ramon,
Calif.  PriMed manages more than 250,000 capitated lives
through a network of 2,160 physicians.  In 1986, hospitals
got 41% of the premium, and physician services accounted for
33%.  Doctors increased their share of premium to 37% in
1995, while the hospital component shrank to 30%.  The big
winner was the payer, whose administrative costs and profits
grew from 14% in 1986 to 21% today, according to McDermott.

A new "health czar" in town?

Move over Hillary.  Newt Gingrich is the next "health reform
czar" for the 1990s. The Republican-driven federal budget
reconciliation act of 1996 would end the Great Society
commitment to healthcare for the poor and elderly, according
to the Wall Street Journal.  House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
(R-Ga.) deficit-reduction proposal is the most sweeping
health reform legislation since 1983, when Congress
converted Medicare to a pre-paid health plan.  Wrenching
cuts in Medicare and Medicaid spending may total some $440
billion in the next seven years.  Doctors could see their
federal payments reduced by almost $30 billion, while
hospitals could lose $120 billion or more.

That strategy leans more toward Margaret Thatcher than
Hillary Rodham Clinton. Medicare and Medicaid would be
privatized, with incentives for conversion to HMOs.  The
result would be a multi-tiered health system in which
beneficiaries choose health plans with different coverages,
depending on their ability to pay extra for wider provider
choice or scope of benefits.

Extended wrangling between the White House and GOP
Congressional majority could delay -- but probably not stop
-- GOP-led health reform initiatives.  If Republicans cannot
overcome Clinton vetoes, the GOP may take an "unbundled"
approach to health reform, inserting pieces of their health
reform strategy into other legislation.  Key objectives for
Republican health reformers include:

*  Placing spending limits on entitlement programs such as
Medicare and Medicaid.

*  Reducing Medicare and Medicaid spending and holding down
federal expenditures to 4% to 7% annual increases for the

next five to seven years.

*  Conversion of Medicaid to a block-grant program managed
by the states.

*  Conversion of Medicare to a managed care program that
puts HMOs and provider-sponsored networks -- not government
-- at risk for managing health costs.

*  Caps on Medicare hospital and physician payments.

*  Provider-sponsored networks to allow physicians and
hospitals to enroll Medicare beneficiaries without an HMO
license.

*  Small-business insurance reforms to eliminate waiting
periods, prior existing conditions and experience ratings

*  Malpractice reform that limits "pain-and-suffering" non-
medical damages to $250,000 per case.

*  Medical IRAs and medical savings accounts.

*  Reducing subsidies for teaching hospitals and
"disproportionate share" facilities.

*  Protecting rural hospitals.

Provider-sponsored networks are "silver lining"

The "silver lining" in the massive budget reconciliation
bill is congressional support for provider-sponsored
networks.  Here is a compelling rationale for the 3,000
physician-hospital organizations and integrated networks.
PSNs would give physicians and hospitals a new managed care
vehicle to compete for control of the premium.  The PSN
concept may help level the playing field between providers
and payers.

There could be thousands of PSNs competing for certification
by the Health Care Financing Administration to enroll
directly 37 million Medicare beneficiaries.  New competitors
would  potentially include an estimated 3,000 physician-
hospital organizations, hundreds of large physician groups
and dozens of regional integrated delivery systems.

Becoming a PSN could be risky business. PSNs may need more
experienced partners, such as HMOs and insurers, to control
costs and manage the network.  Managing risk will be the
make-or-break challenge of provider-sponsored networks and,
outside of California, most providers have little or no
experience in capitation.  Providers may turn to HMOs and
insurers for cost management, quality control and
information systems, under a variety of PSN-HMO
arrangements, including those in which providers:

*  "Rent" the HMO/insurer to manage the network, a technique
called administrative services only, in which managed care
plans often contract with self-funded employer health plans.

*  Utilize an independent third-party administrator to link
the provider network contractually, manage contracting and
control utilization and quality.

*   Form strategic business relationships with the
HMO/insurer for management services on a profit-sharing
basis

(but no equity-sharing).

*  Joint venture with shared HMO/insurer equity in the PSN,
where providers develop the healthcare delivery network and
the HMO/insurer supplies the fiscal and management services.

Phase Four:  "War of the networks"

On a national basis, a number of metropolitan areas are
moving into "Stage Four," with more than 25% HMO
penetration, according to InterStudy.  And not just in
California -- the trend is national.  Markets like
Baltimore, Boston, Denver, Honolulu, Louisville, Nashville,
Philadelphia, and Salt Lake City are headed into a "Bermuda
Triangle" of competition, caught in price wars between Blue
Cross Blue Shield-sponsored managed care plans, national
commercial carriers including Aetna and Prudential, and
independent HMOs such as U.S. Healthcare and United
HealthCare, according to InterStudy.

Network-level warfare is heating up, and the stakes are huge
-- control of hundreds of thousands of covered lives and
strategic relationships with leading HMOs, insurers and
employers.  The new playing field is regional or statewide,
and the players are multi-hospital networks with thousands
of physicians.  In recent months, announcements of network
affiliations and acquisitions are arriving non-stop:

*  In Northern California, Sacramento-based Sutter Health
System is creating a new $2.1 billion network with 700,000
covered lives by merging its 17 hospitals, seven medical
groups, ambulatory care sites and HMOs with California
Health System, which operates four hospitals in the Bay
Area.

*  In New Orleans, Santa Monica-based Tenet Healthcare

 Corp. has established an eight-hospital regional IDN that
will include more than 2,400 affiliated physicians, three
speciality facilities and outpatient centers in a three-
parish market.  Tenet will compete head-to-head with
Columbia/HCA, which is negotiating to acquire Woman's
Hospital in Baton Rouge.

Hospital budget strains comes with Medicare cuts

Falling HMO payments and Medicare budget cuts will put
America's hospitals and physicians on a tight budget.
Providers must continue aggressive cost reductions if they
are to maintain a positive bottom line.  Hospitals are
barely coping with lower Medicare payments, managed care
discounts and utilization declines. There is some good news
-- hospital closings fell in 1994.  Only 40 acute care
hospitals closed their doors, down from 62 in 1993,
according to the American Hospital Association.  That was
the fewest number of closed facilities since 1983.

Futurist Jeff Goldsmith, president of Health Futures,
Bannockburn, Ill., describes hospitals as "out of position"
to manage the shifting of managed care risk.  They are
vulnerable to payers who control enrollees "upstream" on the
dollar flow, according to Goldsmith.  The challenge for
hospital profitability is

to keep operating margins in "plus territory" despite
managed care pressures and declining government payments.

According to a recent study by the Center for Healthcare
Industry Performance Studies, hospitals' total profit
margins in 1994 averaged 3.9%, the same as in 1993.  Good
news from hospitals in high-penetration HMO markets --
margins improved to 3.7%, from 2.8% in 1993.  CHIPS co-
founder William O. Cleverly gives credit to cost cutting,
reduced labor costs and better strategic positioning to
those hospitals in heavy managed care markets.  But they
will have to keep it up.  The lessons from the West Coast
are very clear -- the more HMO penetration, the lower the
hospital use rate.  For providers, the winds of change in
1996 will be blowing from the West.

Contact Coile at (805)286-1085.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS STRATEGY REPORT via NewsNet
January 5, 1996

HOSPITAL'S ELECTRONIC NURSING STATION GIVES DOCS OFF-SITE
VIEW OF PATIENTS

The Medical-Oriented Operating Network, an electronic
patient monitoring system, is letting Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital, Tarpon Springs, Fla., keep a watchful eye on
outpatients and the hospital's performance.

MOON, developed by Unitron Medical Communications,
Clearwater, Fla., allows caregivers to collect patient data
and send them directly to an electronic nursing station
located in the hospital, where physicians have instant
access to information about their patients' status.
Patients can also access the system to update information
such as blood sugar levels or temperature, says Carol
Auhlman, R.N., Unitron's director of network clinical
operations.

MOON functions as a medical on-line system that links all
patient information beyond the hospital.  Patient files in
the system include clinical information, and cost and
quality data are recorded in the database.  Records can only
be accessed by qualified caregivers involved in a patient's
treatment.

The nursing station, called an "E-station," is located
directly inside the physicians' entrance at the hospital, so
doctors can "look in" on their patients' progress as soon as
they arrive.  The can also access the database from their
offices or homes.

The network sends out an immediate alarm if it detects a
critical variance in the patient's condition, and "quicker
intervention means less deterioration," says Linda Chic,
R.N. who works in the E-station.

Unitron also has access to the database, and uses the data
for a variety of studies to inform administrators at Helen
Ellis about the hospital's performance.

For more details, call Unitron at (813)524-7800 or Helen
Ellis Memorial at (813)942-5000.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-25</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-40</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh17.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023827 text/html 91819
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:36:18 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:08 GMT
Content-length: 91630
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh17.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet <BR>
January 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>AMERINET REJECTS OWENS & MINOR'S 1% PRICE&nbsp;INCREASE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1256 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>"THE JUICE ISN'T WORTH THE SQUEEZE;" SYRINGE AND&nbsp;NEEDLE PRICES HOLD STEADY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1133 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>WHEN DOES BIG BECOME TOO BIG?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(624 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>=============</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>INDIANA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER GOES&nbsp;STOCKLESS--AGAIN, THIS TIME WITH BAXTER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(558 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>WEST JERSEY HEALTH SYSTEM GETS $1.4 MILLION ESI&nbsp;SOFTWARE PACKAGE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(69 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>DIAGNOSTIC EQUIPMENT PURCHASES DOWN IN 1995 FOR&nbsp;THE SECOND YEAR IN A ROW</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(325 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#7"><A HREF = "#7"><LI>CATHOLIC HEALTH CARE POWERHOUSE FORMED;&nbsp;MATERIALS MANAGEMENT IMPACT UNKNOWN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(446 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>LONG ISLAND COLLEGE HOSPITAL RETROFITS AND&nbsp;UPGRADES WILL SAVE $4.4 MILLION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(235 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>GENE BURTON & ASSOCIATES OPENS OFFICE IN&nbsp;PLACERVILLE, CALIF.</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(76 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS JOIN TO STUDY WAYS TO DRIVE&nbsp;COSTS FROM THEIR SYSTEMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(161 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>EGG CRATES ARE OUT, SAVINGS ARE IN AT THE&nbsp;UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA MED. CENTER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(460 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>SACRED HEART MEDICAL CENTER PUTS A NEW TWIST&nbsp;ON CUTTING SUPPLY AND EQUIPMENT COST</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(659 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>HOAG HOPES NEW COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY SYSTEM&nbsp;DEVELOPS SIGNIFICANT SAVINGS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(219 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>ST. ALEXIUS WINS BAR CODING AWARD</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(122 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>AS IF THERE ISN'T ANYTHING ELSE TO WORRY ABOUT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(200 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>VHA SIGNS NEW PURCHASING CONTRACTS ON WIDE&nbsp;RANGE OF MED-SURG PRODUCTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(809 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>VA GETS $10 MILLION SETTLEMENT FROM U.S.&nbsp;SURGICAL ON DISCOUNT ISSUE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(89 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>DEPT. OF DEFENSE AWARDS TWO PRIME VENDOR DEALS&nbsp;TO OWENS & MINOR</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(221 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><A HREF = "#19"><LI>SHARED SERVICES INKS CONTRACT FOR IOLS, PHACO&nbsp;EQUIPMENT WITH CHIRON/IOLAB</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(391 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><A HREF = "#20"><LI>AMERINET TO BUY CONSULTING FIRM KOWALSKI-&nbsp;DICKOW ASSOCIATES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(174 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>AMERINET ANNUAL REPORT SHOWS SIGNIFICANT&nbsp;GAINS FOR GPO, IN SPITE OF LOSS OF MEMBERS FOR&nbsp;VECTOR HEALTHSYSTEMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(672 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><A HREF = "#22"><LI>PROVIDER CRITICISM OF MEDICAL-SURGICAL SUPPLY&nbsp;DISTRIBUTORS IS BASED ON INCORRECT PERCEPTIONS&nbsp;AND EXPECTATIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(821 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><LI>IMS DRUG INDEXES CONTINUE SEVEN-QUARTER SLIDE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><A HREF = "#24"><LI>UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDICAL BRANCH PARES&nbsp;$500,000 FROM ITS OPERATING ROOM MATERIALS AND&nbsp;SUPPLIES BUDGET</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(870 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><A HREF = "#25"><LI>MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY CONTRACTS FOR FOURTH&nbsp;STRAIGHT MONTH; PURCHASING MANAGERS'&nbsp;NOVEMBER INDEX DRIFTS DOWN TO 46.5%</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(172 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><A HREF = "#26"><LI>PRODUCER PRICE INDEX RISES 0.1% IN NOVEMBER;&nbsp;MEDICAL CARE COMMODITIES INCREASE BY 0.3%</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(73 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><A HREF = "#27"><LI>LARGE HOSPITALS AND INTEGRATED SYSTEMS ARE&nbsp;ASKING: ARE GROUP PURCHASING ORGANIZATIONS&nbsp;REALLY NECESSARY?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(698 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><LI>OWENS SHOULD OWN UP TO ITS PROBLEMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(149 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><LI>Hospital Materials Management. Have over 17 years successful</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(101 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><LI>Sharon Belletynee was appointed director of materials management</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(27 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><LI>Bruce Haywood has joined McFaul & Lyons Inc., Trenton, N.J., in</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(33 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><LI>David W. Hitchens was named purchasing manager at Rush</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(29 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#33"><LI>John A. Moreno was appointed director of materials management</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(29 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><LI>Rick Schlosser has been appointed vice president of materials</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(48 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><LI>HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY:</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(39 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><LI>PROFILES IN HEALTHCARE MARKETING:</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(35 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#37"><LI>HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT:</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(61 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

AMERINET REJECTS OWENS & MINOR'S 1% PRICE
INCREASE

By Richard Haugh
Owens & Minor Inc.'s attempt to pass on a 1% across-the-board
price increase didn't work--at least not with AmeriNet Inc., St.
Louis. "We chose not to take prices [to our members] up 1%," said
Greg Mosley, vice president of AmeriNet's ValuNet division.

Owens' Sept. 15, 1995, announcement of the price increase
("Hospitals frustrated by Owens' spotty distribution performance,"
HMM, October 1995, p. 1) didn't sit well with AmeriNet, and
Mosley said the group suggested to Owens that the two sit down
and look at alternatives. With $2.76 billion of contracted purchases
in 1995--$1.1 billion of which was in medical-surgical supplies--
AmeriNet was in a position to make such a call, and Owens listened.

Mosley said AmeriNet and Owens "arrived at an understanding"
with the Richmond, Va.-based distributor that allows Owens to
assess fees for various services it provides to AmeriNet's 4,500-
plus member facilities, while retaining a modified cost-plus
structure.

Tom Sherry, Owens' vice president of sales and marketing, said the
new contract, while an immediate reaction to AmeriNet's displeasure
with the 1% price increase, is more an interim step on the road from
traditional cost-plus pricing to a full risk-sharing arrangement. "The
problem is that a lot of hospitals are not ready for full activity-based
costing, and this interim contract is an attempt to address that
concern," he said.

The New Activity Fees

In a Dec. 1, 1995, memo to purchasing and materials management
directors, Mosley outlined the changes it is making to its contract
with Owens, effective Dec. 1, 1995. While the new contract makes
changes in the cost-plus tier structure, more notably the new contract
calls for the addition of these eight activity-based fees:

+ 0.25% addition to distribution fees for each delivery in excess of
two per week.

+ $1.25 per mile charge to a facility for any delivery in excess of
100 miles from the distribution center.

+ 1% added charge for electronic order entry if the order is less than
50% of items ordered.

+ 0.5% added charge for electronic order entry if the order is less
than 90% of items ordered.

+ 3.5% service fee for "non-traditional" vendor products.

+ $0.10 per label charge for patient charge labeling.

+ 2% PAL service charge.

+ $0.85 per line item surcharge during any month in which the
average line order is less than $150 per line.

Sword Cuts Both Ways

In putting together the new agreement, Mosley said AmeriNet felt
that if Owens wanted to charge its member facilities activity fees,
"then the sword cuts both ways." The result was provisions for
AmeriNet facilities to charge Owens with penalty fees for not
meeting specific service levels:

+ A required 96% fill rate on committed items (mutually agreed
upon between Owens and the facility and ordered at least twice a
month). If the fill rate drops below 96% for any two consecutive
months, Owens must pay the facility $200.

+ Owens must pay a facility $200 if, "after proper notification to
Owens," it is proved that Owens charged the facility incorrect
pricing for two consecutive months and no response or adjustment
is made. In an apparent bow to Owens' efforts to get its balky
computer system operating smoothly, this penalty doesn't go into
effect until April 1.

Too Early To Judge Reaction

Two weeks after distribution of the memo, it was still too early to
gauge member reaction, Mosley said, with responses predictably
negative from hospitals to be most heavily affected. Size doesn't
appear to be a factor; instead, the level of efficiency of operations
has more bearing--the more efficient, the less impact the fees will
have. In fact, Mosley said, those hospitals willing to modify their
operations to be more efficient may actually see little impact from the
agreement. Conversely, those facilities that don't could wind up
paying close to the equivalent of Owens' originally requested 1%
price increase.

The agreement is not cast in stone. "We certainly hope as time goes
by this will work out for all the parties concerned," Mosley said.
But if it doesn't, AmeriNet and Owens are ready to discuss
modifications.

AmeriNet's systemwide Dec. 1 move was apparently the first by a
major GPO to change from the traditional cost-plus only
arrangement to introducing service fees. Mosley said he thinks there
are limited programs in place with similar arrangements--in fact,
Owens has a name for a program it has been marketing for some
time: Cost Track--but he doesn't think they are being used to any
great extent. With the development of more sophisticated data
collection processes, though, that is likely to change. (At press time
HMM learned that VHA Inc., Irving, Texas, has modified its
Authorized Distribution Agreement with Owens to also allow for
activity based fees, and Owens is working on an activity-based fee
agreement with Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., Nashville, Tenn.)

"I don't think we'll be unique in the industry as time goes by,"
Mosley said. "The days of distributors giving its services away for
free just because a customer asks for them are gone."

Sherry said he is unaware if Owens competitors, like Baxter
Hospital Supply Corp., McGaw Park, Ill., and General Medical
Corp., Richmond, Va., have similar contracts, but that they likely
will in the future. Indeed, a major topic of discussion at the October
meeting of the Health Industry Distributors Assn. was activity-based
fee programs.

Industry Sentiment Changing?

Industry sentiment against activity fees may be dissolving as players
realize distributors can be squeezed only so far (see related story on
page 11). Margins are razor-thin now, leaving little room for error,
as Owens itself proved when it ran into problems digesting its 1994
acquisition of the former Stuart Medical Inc. When service levels fell
while trying to assimilate Stuart's operational system into the Owens
way of operating, the company quickly fell into financial purgatory,
which triggered its attempt at a price increase.

While that attempt is generally not succeeding (GPOs contacted by
HMM either flatly stated that they wouldn't accept the increases, or
hedged their answers, saying they are exploring various options;
and industry sources have told HMM that Owens is backing off the
increases in one form or another for its major customers), few
dispute the fact that distributors need to boost their margins. Pete
DeBusk, president of DeRoyal Industries Inc., Powell, Tenn.,
summed it up: "The industry must sit up and take notice that there
will be further price increases, especially for distribution, and it's to
our benefit to support distributors. We shouldn't take a hostile
approach to the needs of the distribution business."

Health industry consultant William McFaul, of McFaul & Lyons
Inc., Trenton, N.J., said much of the resistance to activity fees is
coming from the materials management community, and he thinks
that resistance may be misplaced. He said materials managers need
to concentrate on partnerships with their distributors. "This is a
good thing," he said. "Materials managers need to do a cost
accounting analysis. If it's only going to cost me a few thousand
dollars to get the services I need or want, it's pocket change. For a
distributor, though, that goes directly to the bottom line."

While Owens takes the point on the charge into new pricing
territory--and the heat that goes with it--Sherry thinks eventually
customers will see "that this is not an Owens problem, but an
industry problem, and needs to be addressed."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

"THE JUICE ISN'T WORTH THE SQUEEZE;" SYRINGE AND
NEEDLE PRICES HOLD STEADY

Increases in the prices hospitals and group purchasing organizations
pay for needles and syringes have slowed to a virtual standstill, with
average prices for syringes rising only 0.9% and average prices for
needles rising only 0.7%. Putting the brakes on price increases
reverses the trend of rapid price increases seen in last year's HMM
price survey of this high-volume, low-price commodity item, when
prices increased an average of 6.6% from the previous year.

This year's study again included products manufactured by the two
market leaders, Becton Dickinson & Co., Franklin Lakes, N.J., and
St. Louis-based Sherwood Medical Co. Sherwood is the maker of
the popular Monoject line of needle and syringe products. Prices for
Terumo Corp., Somerset, N.J., were requested, but only one price
was supplied by hospitals or group purchasing executives.

Last year's prediction by purchasing executives of stable prices in
1995 proved true. And not one of the executives responding this
year expects prices to rise any time soon. In fact, one executive
thinks prices may drop slightly. "We are in a very competitive
market, and the major players want to hold on to their share of the
market," this director of materials management of an 800-plus bed
hospital on the East Coast said.

Interestingly, while competition is cited as the reason costs are being
held in check, one purchasing executive thinks most hospitals
remain loyal to their current supplier. "Changing needle and syringe
brands is a hassle and the savings are insignificant. The juice is not
worth the squeeze," this exec said.

While competition is the most significant factor keeping the lid on
prices, two respondents--both group purchasing organizations--cited
the rising cost of raw materials as exerting upward pressure on
costs.

Use Probably Won't Rise Next Year

Most hospitals and groups expect usage of these products to stay the
same or decrease in the next year, with about half of all respondents
saying they don't expect their volumes to change. Those looking for
decreases cite the rising popularity of needleless systems as the
reason, saying safety considerations and a reduction in the number
of needle sticks are playing an increasingly important role. One
director echoed prevailing industry trends, saying the number of
hospitals represented by his group is falling.

The respondents who think their use of needles and syringes will
increase tracks with their historical use; if use has been going up, it
probably will continue to rise, while if use has been flat, use will
stay flat or fall.

In a market dominated by commodity items, on which apparently
pricing has been driven to rock bottom, incentives offered by
manufacturers are apparently not a major factor. While most
responding to the HMM survey said price discounts are available
based on volume and compliance, few other goodies are being
dangled. One group purchasing organization has a conversion
allowance available to offer to member hospitals if they convert to
90% use of Sherwood products, and one Midwestern hospital
receives a 3% rebate twice a year based on purchase volume.

Syringe Prices Up 0.9%

Prices for syringes included in the survey rose somewhat higher
than needle prices, and compared to HMM's survey of syringes and
needles in January 1995 the direction of prices reversed and started
to climb. The current average price for all syringes, regardless of
manufacturer, was just shy of 13 cents at $0.1299 in 1995. That
compares with 1994's average prices for all syringes of $0.1287,
for a 0.9% increase compared to last year's survey, which showed
prices of syringes dropping 0.46% from 1993 levels.

Of the 18 syringe models included in the survey, 14 increased in
price. The two syringes registering the largest price increase were
Becton Dickinson model 309540 1cc 25 x 5/8" needle, up 6.0% to
an average price of $0.0721; and Monoject model 512936 12cc no-
needle Luer lock, up 3.1% to an average price of $0.726.

Of the 18 syringes in the survey, only three dropped in price.
Becton Dickinson model 309570 3cc 25 x 5/8" needle fell 1.6% to
an average price of $0.0491. And the Monoject model 516937 6cc
syringe no-needle Luer lock fell 1.2% to an average price of
$0.0682.

The last of the 18 syringes--Monoject model 535713 35cc syringes
no needle luer lock--did not change in average price from last year.

Needle Prices Up 0.7%

Prices for needles included in the survey rose slightly less than
syringe prices, and compared to HMM's survey of syringes and
needles in January 1995, the rate of increase was slower than 1994.
The current average price for all needles, regardless of
manufacturer, was just shy of 3 cents, at $0.284. That compares
with 1994's average prices for all needles of $0.0282, for a 0.7%
increase compared to last year's survey, which showed prices of
needles rising from 1993 levels by 3.8%.

Of the 10 needle models included in the survey, six increased in
price, all but one of them Monoject models. The one Becton
Dickinson needle, model 305145 23 x 1" needle, rose a whopping
29.1%, climbing to $0.0373 each from 1994 levels of $0.0289
each. Five Monoject models showed a uniform increase of 1.1%
across all five numbers, rising to an average price last year of
$0.0277.

Of the 10 needles in the survey, four dropped in price, all Becton
Dickinson models. Two showed price decreases of 6.9%: B-D
model 305195 18 x 1" needle, and model 305196 18 x 1.5" needle.
Two others showed price decreases of 5.2%: B-D model 305175 20
x 1", and model 305176 20 x 1.5" needle.

Overall prices for Becton Dickinson syringes increased by 1.6%,
while Monoject syringes increased by 0.8%. Overall B-D needle
prices increased by 1.0%, while overall Monoject needles increased
by 1.1%. Becton Dickinson's syringe and needle product lines
increased an overall average of 1.5%, while for Monoject the
syringe and needle product lines increased an overall average of
0.9%.

Survey Analysis

HMM received responses from five major group purchasing
organizations representing 1,278 hospitals and more than 280,000
beds. Four stand-alone hospitals representing more than 2,800 beds
also were included in the responses.

Most survey respondents reported that they are using sole-source
contracts for needles and syringes. Sole-source contracts provide
better pricing, local distribution and a guaranteed safety stock. In
recent years, locking into a sole- source contract has brought with it
rebates ranging from 2% to 3%.

HMM's survey was conducted in early December 1995.

In all, U.S. hospitals and other health care facilities spent an
estimated $450 million in 1994 on disposable needles and syringes,
according to figures furnished by the consulting firm of Frost &
Sullivan, Mountain View, Calif.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

WHEN DOES BIG BECOME TOO BIG?

Hospitals and integrated systems will be the winners in the latest
round of mergers, which saw SunHealth Alliance Inc., Charlotte,
N.C., join the ranks of American Healthcare Systems (AmHS), San
Diego, and Premier Health Alliance Inc., Westchester, Ill.--
themselves so recently merged they still don't have a name.

The move created the largest health care network in the country. It
includes 240 owned systems operating 650 hospitals with one-third
of the country's beds (about 315,000), as well as another 1,000
affiliate members in all 50 states. SunHealth adds more than 300
not-for-profit hospitals and health care organizations stretched
across the southeastern United States. Annual purchasing volume
adds up to more than $10 billion, and vaults the group past the
Nashville, Tenn.-based for-profit chain Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Corp.

While the new supergroup has not decided how purchasing and
contracting operations between the three former individual GPOs
will be consolidated, one thing is predicted: Members that stay in the
organization will likely benefit from an estimated $400 million to
$500 million in additional price concessions the new group is
expected to wring from suppliers.

Premier and AmHS have committed to developing long-term, sole-
source agreements with vendors and will demand high compliance
from members to guarantee the purchasing volume vendors will
expect in exchange for low pricing. The addition of SunHealth's
hospitals and $1.8 billion of purchasing certainly will help that goal
along.

But voices in the purchasing wilderness are questioning just how
many more concessions suppliers can grant. In talking with GPOs,
hospitals and consultants, HMM heard a similar sentiment: Prices
may be as low as they'll go, and there isn't much room left for
dickering. Suppliers and distributors can't get into the position of
"losing a little bit of money on each transaction, but making it up in
volume," as one exec said.

Without the lure of ever-lower prices, observers wonder, are there
other benefits to being big that will make it worthwhile to stay a
member of the new megagroup?

A senior executive of one group purchasing organization thinks
hospitals and integrated systems are becoming concerned that being
too big, too national, could wind up hurting them. Adding
competing hospitals to an already competitive marketplace could
drive members to bail out of the new AmHS-Premier-SunHealth.
Premier and AmHS executives downplay that, saying competitive
conflicts among members would be rare. (Before SunHealth joined
the fray, AmHS and Premier hospitals competed head-to-head in 10
major markets and a handful of smaller ones. SunHealth now adds
eight more markets with conflicts.) They have given members in
competing markets one year to work out their differences, or face
having one of the members booted out.

And, as integrated health providers evolve, many think these
providers will increasingly shift their emphasis to receiving more
customized service on a regional level, service a huge national
organization may have trouble delivering.

Smaller GPOs around the country are gloating over that possibility.
They think the confusion and possible member shakeout will let
them reap benefits. "There are a lot of unhappy (member) campers
out there," one GPO executive vice president said. Another
predicted groups will waste no time whispering in the ears of those
discontented campers, extolling the virtues of their own smaller
organizations.

This is not lost on VHA Inc., Irving, Texas, stung by the apparent
defection of SunHealth when it thought it was well along the path to
its own merger with the group. In a statement released in response
to the merger, VHA said it will be ready. "As local markets
consolidate and managed care networks continue to develop, we
anticipate that many current members of other alliances will align
with our members and ultimately join VHA," the statement said.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

INDIANA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER GOES
STOCKLESS--AGAIN, THIS TIME WITH BAXTER

If at first you don't succeed...

After signing a just-in-time agreement in November 1993 with the
old Stuart Medical Inc., the 610-bed two-hospital Indiana University
Medical Center (IUMC), Indianapolis, saw Stuart purchased by
Owens & Minor Inc., Richmond, Va. The hospital system then
attempted a less-than-successful move to stockless with Owens in
August 1994. In April 1995 IUMC signed on with the ValueLink
program of Baxter Healthcare Corp., McGaw Park, Ill. The third
time seems to be the charm, said IUMC's director of pharmacy and
material services, Carol Birk.

The switch to Baxter has allowed IUMC to close its 85,000-sq. ft.
warehouse and convert it to record keeping support and forms
storage. At its Indianapolis warehouse, Baxter affixes patient charge
bar codes as items are picked, and then ships in lowest unit of
measure at least once a day to the hospital.

IUMC and Baxter are working on plans to consolidate into the
available hospital warehouse space a number of functions, including
transport, linen handling and purchasing. Baxter is also working on
100% freight consolidation at its warehouse, where it now handles
1,500 parcels each week. Birk said since going stockless with
Baxter, the distributor has lost only one package, worth about $300.

The distributor supports a core list of 2,900 line items at its
warehouse and maintains an inventory of $2.8 million to $3 million
for IUMC. The hospital's material services unit purchases about
$19.4 million annually, about $18 million of that through Baxter.
Going stockless and eliminating central distribution operations at the
hospital allowed IUMC to cut its central distribution inventory levels
to current levels of about $20,000 from $400,000 to $500,000.

Under the new program, Baxter also took over several other
distribution operations. As a springboard to distribution within the
hospital, Baxter employees now operate the receiving dock and log
in each shipment. Supplies are then distributed to 856 ship-to
locations at IUMC. At any one time the two hospitals have a total of
$129,000 of material on site, about $55,000 of which is on case
carts, divided among 300 to 400 line items, kept as backup stock in
satellite areas at each of the two hospitals. In addition, Baxter
handles distribution of linens, which Birk said results in significant
savings by eliminating double handling and removing the "train"
operation of moving linens.

By transferring operations to Baxter, IUMC was able to reduce staff
by 150 employees, 13 of whom Baxter hired for its operation. The
hospital has transferred supply stocking duties at the ship-to
locations to pharmacy technicians. "We now have total integration,"
Birk said. "Pharmacy managers are responsible for all materials
functions."

To facilitate the stockless program, IUMC is starting to implement
handheld devices to maintain par levels. While the technology was
available to make the jump directly to the handhelds and EDI when
Baxter took over, because of the reduction in staff and requisite
training of new people, IUMC is making the transition using a paper
system.

IUMC's savings with the stockless program have been significant.
Reducing excess inventories created a one-time savings of $2
million, while reducing FTEs produced on-going savings of $2.2
million, even after paying the cost of additional Baxter employees.
IUMC next plans to look to Baxter's Procedure Based Delivery
System to reduce costs in the hospital system's operating rooms.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

WEST JERSEY HEALTH SYSTEM GETS $1.4 MILLION ESI
SOFTWARE PACKAGE

West Jersey Health System, a 740-bed multi-hospital integrated
system in Camden, N.J., contracted to purchase $1.4 million of
software from Enterprise Systems Inc. (ESI), Wheeling, Ill. West
Jersey's agreement includes four main components of ESI's
software: NOVA(TM), a materials management system;
ORBIT(TM), a surgical services systems; TITAN(TM), a financial
management system; and TouchScan(TM), a resource management
point-of-use system. West Jersey expects the software to be phased
in by mid-1996.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

DIAGNOSTIC EQUIPMENT PURCHASES DOWN IN 1995 FOR
THE SECOND YEAR IN A ROW

Consolidation and uncertainty continue to put the brakes on hospital
purchases of big-ticket diagnostic imaging equipment. For the
second year in a row, hospitals have used the time they spend on
consolidation efforts to take a breather and reassessed their asset
management programs--without spending much money.

In its fifth annual study on purchasing trends for diagnostic imaging
equipment, Comdisco Inc., Rosemont, Ill., reported all types of
imaging equipment are showing an increase in average age,
indicating sluggish purchasing activity. Comdisco Medical
Equipment Group's president, Kenneth Halverson, isn't surprised.
"As hospitals come together in a network, they have critical
technology asset management problems to address," he said. "They
need to assess what equipment they have, where it's located and
how it fits strategically in the new organization. There are almost
certainly going to be redundancies."

Conclusions of the report:

+ MRI systems were hardest hit. Average age of installed MRIs is
5.5 years, up from 3.1 in 1992. Seventy percent of MRIs are more
than three years old, compared with 35% in 1992.

+ Radiography/fluoroscopy is the oldest technology, with an
average age of 10.1 years, up from 7.9 years in 1992. Almost 66%
of these systems are more than seven years old, and 20% are more
than 15 years old.

+ Seventy-five percent of CT scanners are more than three years
old, up from 64% in 1994.

+ Cardiac catheterization labs are installed in 31% of hospitals, up
from 20% in 1993.

+ Eighty-four percent of nuclear medicine devices are more than
three years old.

Comdisco predicted the drought in purchasing could be ending,
though. It said the company is entering 1996 with a record backlog
of orders.

The Comdisco report analyzed information on the penetration,
distribution and age of diagnostic equipment at more than 3,600
U.S. hospitals. The hospitals were surveyed about ultrasound,
MRI, computed tomography, cardiac catheterization, angiography
suites, radiography- fluoroscopy and nuclear medicine.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

CATHOLIC HEALTH CARE POWERHOUSE FORMED;
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT IMPACT UNKNOWN

While the merger of three Catholic health care systems into a new
umbrella system called Catholic Health Initiatives (CHI), to be
headquartered in Denver, will make it the country's largest Catholic
system, the effect on materials management and purchasing won't
be known until early 1996.

The new system's formation, first reported in HMM in September
1995 ("Colorado Catholic hospitals under new regional umbrella,"
HMM, September 1995, p. 19), will combine 11 religious
congregations in 21 states and bring together 63 acute care hospitals
representing 10,400 beds, as well as more than 50 alternate site
facilities. CHI will have projected annual revenues in excess of $4
billion. That pulls CHI well ahead of what was formerly the
country's largest Catholic system, St. Louis-based Daughters of
Charity, which had 1995 revenues of $3.2 billion.

CHI results from the merger of Sisters of Charity Health Care
Systems, Cincinnati; Catholic Health Corp., Omaha, Neb.; and
Franciscan Health System, Aston, Pa. CHI will be divided into five
operating regions, with headquarters in Denver. CHI's Rocky
Mountain Region office also will be in Denver.

An office headed by John DiCola, currently vice president of
strategic development for Sisters of Charity Health Care Systems,
will provide for the nationwide system centralized services like
purchasing and materials management functions, as well as benefits,
insurance educational programs, financial services and consulting.
Other services could be added in the future. The division will be
called CHI Service Organization and be located in Cincinnati.

It is not certain how the materials management functions of the three
systems will be integrated. Franciscan Health System's materials
management operations are headed by George Hersch, while Sisters
of Charity's vice president of materials management is Paul De
Salvo. Catholic Health Corp. does not have centralized materials
management, but handles the function at each hospital.

Consolidation of materials functions is almost certain, but CHI
spokespersons said it is not yet clear what the new structure will be.
No one would speculate officially on the future of materials
management staffers, other than to say there is more than enough
work in the new system to go around for everyone involved--and
then some.

It's unlikely the merger will affect purchasing and contracting, since
national contracts are negotiated through the Catholic Materials
Management Alliance, St. Louis. As one executive of the new
system said, even with the size of CHI, systems (including
Daughters of Charity) need the leverage of CMMA to cut the best
deals. What could be affected, though, is the myriad of regional
deals the three players will have--such as services contracts, back
office functions, sterilization services, natural gas and products that
are proprietary to a region.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

LONG ISLAND COLLEGE HOSPITAL RETROFITS AND
UPGRADES WILL SAVE $4.4 MILLION

Fresh from a seven-year contract that saved it $923,000 in its first
year and $6.8 million over the life of the contract, the Long Island
College Hospital in Brooklyn, N.Y., is entering a second seven-
year agreement with Honeywell Inc., Minneapolis, that is
guaranteed to save an additional $4.4 million.

The 601-bed facility launched the second phase of the agreement in
fall 1995. It calls for Honeywell to retrofit lighting in the hospital
and install energy-efficient motors on air-handling units, as well as
install a fire alarm system, a 300-ton chiller plant, an HVAC system
in laboratory buildings, and a boiler plant retrofit. Also included in
the contract is a new building automation system that will integrate
the operating room, blood bank data, materials management and
billing systems. Long Island expects the new system will reduce
inventory costs and result in faster, more accurate billing
information.

Over the seven-year life of the contract, Honeywell guarantees Long
Island operational savings of $4.4 million, which the hospital will
use to pay Honeywell for the equipment and work. If actual savings
don't meet that level, Honeywell will pay the hospital the difference.
At the end of the contract Long Island will own all of the equipment,
and savings that had been repaying Honeywell will be the hospital's
to keep.

The first phase, completed in June 1994, involved updating
mechanical and control systems throughout the hospital.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

GENE BURTON & ASSOCIATES OPENS OFFICE IN
PLACERVILLE, CALIF.

In an effort to expand its West Coast market and be closer to
existing West Coast clients, Gene Burton & Associates (GB&A),
Nashville, Tenn., has opened an office in Placerville, Calif. The
office will be staffed by Pat Dulaney-Schuetz, a GB&A medical
equipment planning associate.

GB&A, founded in 1988, provides equipment planning and
consulting service to health care networks and standalone
operations. The firm also provides medical equipment and
communication consulting, budgeting and reporting services.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS JOIN TO STUDY WAYS TO DRIVE
COSTS FROM THEIR SYSTEMS

A group of 18 children's hospitals, representing 4,003 beds, has
banded together to develop a database of information designed to
identify areas for cost reduction. The effort, dubbed Synergistic
Advantages, began last spring when the group proposed nearly 20
areas to examine in hospital operations. From those, four or five
areas will be selected to pursue in more detail in 1996.

The program draws participants from a number of areas at the 18
hospitals, including nursing, pharmacy and materials management.
The first phase of the study involves developing a database to
provide participants with benchmarking capabilities. Areas to be
examined include cath lab supply management, per diem and
procedure-based supply management, specialty bed utilization, linen
management, systems integration and electronic data interchange,
and outsourcing.

The hospitals are located around the country, and together account
for about $150 million in annual medical-surgical supply
purchasing. The group is hoping to identify areas from which to
generate savings of 5% to 10%.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

EGG CRATES ARE OUT, SAVINGS ARE IN AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA MED. CENTER

The University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC), Omaha,
Neb., replaced almost all of its conventional hospital mattresses
Nov. 1, 1995, with new pressure relief mattresses called DeCubes,
manufactured by Comfortex Inc., Winona, Minn. The purchase of
the 221 new mattresses for $78,600 will allow the 324-bed hospital
to virtually eliminate nearly $100,000 in annual purchases of foam
overlay ("egg crate") mattresses. In addition, the hospital will be
able to significantly cut back the $176,000 it spent last year on
specialty bed rentals.

The choice of the new mattresses was driven by simple economics,
said Mickey Bradshaw, manager of materials support services for
UNMC. Pressure ulcers contribute to more than 60,000 deaths each
year and cost the health care system more than $9 billion annually,
much of it not reimbursable by Medicare and other insurance
organizations. Industry estimates are that between 3% and 11% of
patients admitted to a hospital or nursing home develop pressure
ulcers. The cost of treating those sores ranges from $5,000 to
$40,000 per patient. To address pressure sores, UNMC had been
using the disposable egg crates and, in more serious cases, specialty
beds rented from KCI International Inc., San Antonio, Texas.

Last year UNMC spent $211,000 on specialty bed rentals, although
it received $35,000 back from KCI under an arrangement that
capped the hospital's expenditures at $176,000. Bradshaw said the
hospital developed new protocols for determining when a patient
needs a specialty bed and when the patient can be removed from the
bed, and what kinds of beds need to be used for specific cases. The
new protocols are expected to cut spending on bed rental by more
than half, to $60,000 to $80,000.

A second area of cost reduction was eliminating the use of egg crate
mattresses and geomats throughout the hospital, except for the labor
and delivery area. In 1995 the hospital spent $97,572 on the
disposable mattresses. The $78,600 it spent to buy the DeCube
mattresses will eliminate most of that annual expense, Bradshaw
said. "The tens of thousands of dollars we won't be spending on
egg crates easily justifies the DeCube purchase," he said.

The new mattresses have a high-density foam surface and a matrix
of removable sections that makes it possible to selectively treat
pressure ulcers. Besides the mattresses, the DeCube deal included
accessories like straps needed to hold the items on the bed.

UNMC considered putting out an RFP to a number of suppliers, but
decided to take advantage of a contract held by its group purchasing
organization, University HealthSystem Consortium, Oak Brook, Ill.
Bradshaw said clinicians and nurses who work with the mattresses
are enthusiastic about them, and UNMC didn't feel it was worth the
time or effort to solicit bids from numerous vendors.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

SACRED HEART MEDICAL CENTER PUTS A NEW TWIST
ON CUTTING SUPPLY AND EQUIPMENT COST

At Sacred Heart Medical Center, Eugene, Ore., it's sort of a
capitated agreement, but with a twist.

Steve Howard, director of materials management for the 432-bed
hospital, was part of an employee task force searching for cost
savings in the hospital's $27 million to $30 million annual
purchasing budget for capital equipment and medical-surgical
supplies. Sacred Heart is part of Bellevue, Wash.-based
PeaceHealth, a not-for-profit organization sponsored by the Sisters
of St. Joseph of Peace, which owns five hospitals and manages
another 15.

Howard said instead of soliciting the lowest pricing from vendors
and cutting a sole- or dual-source agreement for items like
pacemakers and orthopedic implants, the hospital took a different
tack.

Looking at orthopedic implants, the task force gathered data from
IMS America Inc., Plymouth Meeting, Pa., reviewed its own
pricing levels and floated a traditional RFP on the devices. Based on
that information, the group set a cap on what it would pay for
various components. The caveat was that if a vendor didn't agree to
sell for the capped price, the hospital wouldn't use that vendor.

For example, on one top-of-the-line implant, Sacred Heart capped
the price at $4,400. Any of the hospital's surgeons could specify
which manufacturer they wanted to supply the device, but if that
supplier wouldn't agree to that price, the surgeon would have to find
another supplier. The orthopedic implant program, launched in
August 1995, is expected to save the hospital $300,000, Howard
said.

Sacred Heart next turned to pacemakers and applied the same
concept. Howard said the hospital developed a list of five vendors to
use for the pacemaker program, and approached each about it. They
were not happy with the concept, he said, and two didn't want to
operate under the new program--at least, not until they were told that
the physicians would stop specifying their brand of implant. Seeing
potential sales and profits evaporate brought them around, Howard
said.

The same procedure brought similar results to the cath lab. While
just a couple of years ago the hospital was paying $600 to $650 for
a PTCA catheter, Howard said, now the price is $400, and he
predicted that by the end of January it will be $300.

"We're in a situation where competition, not commitment, is the true
driver of price," Howard said. Instead of trying to force surgeons to
standardize on one manufacturer, and then trying to drive price as
low as possible with one manufacturer with a carrot-and-stick
approach, making both parties unhappy in the process, Howard
said, the new system allows marketplace competition to work.

Getting the cooperation of the physicians was key to the success of
the program. From the beginning the task force insisted on
involving physicians and giving them all the information they
needed or requested. Even when docs agree to standardize on one
supplier, there can still be residual resentment, Howard said. Now,
the physicians are free to choose their supplier, and it is up to the
supplier to decide whether it wants to sell devices for the capped
price.

"I don't know anyone who's ever been successful telling doctors
what to do," he said, "so we had to take a different approach."

The task force so far has reduced costs by nearly $2 million,
including $1 million in capital expenditures and $950,000 in annual
supply costs. A new contract for pacemakers saved more than
$300,000 of that $2 million, while standardizing cardiac catheter
procedures and ancillary products netted $125,000 in savings. An
additional $125,000 was saved from changes in heart valves and
other related supplies. Some of the capital savings included
$600,000 for new computer systems and $300,000 by reviewing
the purchase of a specialized camera for one of the medical center's
departments.

"These are all bottom-line rather than soft savings," Howard said.
He projected additional savings this year of $700,000 in med-surg
supplies and $300,000 in capital equipment.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HOAG HOPES NEW COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY SYSTEM
DEVELOPS SIGNIFICANT SAVINGS

Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian, Newport Beach, Calif., is
installing a $1.5 million computed radiography system that the
hospital expects will produce significant savings.

The 416-bed facility is installing an Ektascan Imagelink(TM) Model
400 system manufactured by Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.
The system is the first step in the hospital's plan to create a digital
imaging network to serve both inpatient and outpatient needs. The
gradual switch from film to digital imaging is part of Hoag's long-
term goal of storing all images and patient records digitally.

The first of three phases in the project calls for four completed
radiography systems to be operational by the spring of 1996. One
site will be at Hoag Health Center-Costa Mesa, about 10 miles from
the hospital. The other three sites will be in the hospital's intensive
care unit, critical care unit and emergency room.

Phases two and three call for more computed radiography systems
as well as the inclusion of CT and MRI images on the digital
network. The system will also interface with Hoag's radiology
information system, which stores patient information and exam
reports. When an image is retrieved for reference, the accompanying
report will appear on the screen as well.

No financial terms of the transaction were disclosed, and no
projections on savings were available.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

ST. ALEXIUS WINS BAR CODING AWARD

St. Alexius Medical Center, Bismarck, N.D., was named the winner
of the 1995 Don Percival Award for its work in developing and
implementing bar code technology in the 313-bed hospital. The
award was presented in November at the annual SCAN-TECH
Exhibition and Conference in Chicago, the trade show of the
automatic data collection and identification industry.

St. Alexius instituted its bar code system in 1987 and has lowered
its materials management operational costs, increased productivity
and reduced inventory levels ("St. Alexius (N.D.) cuts inventory,
costs, recovers lost charges with bar coding," HMM, March 1994,
p. 5). The medical center has expanded bar coding across its entire
health care system, and virtually every major department now uses
some form of bar coding.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

AS IF THERE ISN'T ANYTHING ELSE TO WORRY ABOUT

Materials management executives in Kaiser Permanente's Northern
California region are facing an uneasy working relationship with
their staffs. The employees, members of Local 250 of the Health
Care Workers Union, voted in mid-November 1995 to reject a
Kaiser Northern California contract offer and authorize their
bargaining committee to call strikes of up to one day. The
negotiations affected about 200 materials management workers, part
of the larger 13,500-member union local.

A union spokesman said the contract with Kaiser expired in
October, and the employees have been working without a contract
since then. The spokesman said union members have not resorted to
disruptive tactics like work slowdowns, which could impair hospital
operations, but instead have relied on candlelight vigils, marches
and passing out leaflets. Relationships are strained, though, he said.

The spokesman said materials management executives and Kaiser
physicians have generally been sympathetic to union concerns, but
the feeling is not echoed by Kaiser top management. He predicted
that, since union and management are not close to agreement on
issues, union members will be working for a long time without a
contract. He said registered nurses at Kaiser have been working
without a contract for more than six months.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

VHA SIGNS NEW PURCHASING CONTRACTS ON WIDE
RANGE OF MED-SURG PRODUCTS

In a flurry of year-end activity, VHA Inc., Irving, Texas, signed
purchasing contracts on a wide-ranging group of products. Sales
under the contracts have the potential of reaching nearly $160
million and saving member organizations as much as $21 million.
The contracts include:

+ Becton Dickinson Vascular Access (B-D), Sandy, Utah, for I.V.
start kits, catheters and safety products. VHA estimates the three-
year sole source contract, which took effect Nov. 1, 1995, will save
participating members between 6% and 8% annually on the
products. Discounts are on a sliding scale based on a member's
volume of purchases. Overall purchases by VHA members in 1995
are estimated to be $39.1 million, with $26 million of that on I.V.
catheters.

As part of the contract, B-D is offering a guaranteed savings plan for
members who convert their business to Vialon Insyte Catheters from
Teflon catheters. B-D cited its study showing Vialon Insyte
Catheters reduce I.V. restarts, reduce the incidence of phlebitis and
increase indwelling time. The company estimated that hospitals
using the Vialon products will reduce catheter use by nearly 5%.

To help hospitals defray conversion costs for switching, Becton
Dickinson agreed to rebate 3% of annual sales to an institution when
it converts to B-D's I.V. catheters.

The catheters, safety equipment and I.V. start kits will also be
marketed through VHA's private label program, VHA PLUS(R). B-
D will switch several versions of its I.V. start kits to the VHA
PLUS(R) program, offering savings of 5% to 10% on the products.
The agreement covers I.V. start kits with and without gloves,
bandages, transparent dressings and ointments. B-D estimated total
sales for those products to VHA members at $5.2 million in 1995.

+ Standard Textile, Cincinnati, for textiles and apparel. The contract
is a sole-source arrangement with Standard, a change from VHA's
previous dual-source contract that included Angelica Uniform
Group, St. Louis. VHA estimates the five-year contract, which
takes effect Jan. 1, will save participating members between $4
million and $9 million annually on purchases. Discounts are on a
sliding scale based on a member's volume of purchases. VHA
estimates overall purchases by members could total $50 million to
$70 million annually. The contract covers flat goods, reusable and
disposable apparel, surgical linens and incontinence products.

The contract includes direct discounts for each product segment and
discounts based on utilization levels, and adoption of Standard
Textile's linen management program.

Standard is one of seven manufacturers participating in VHA's
committed purchasing program. Members participating in the
committed program will receive additional discounts under the new
contract above those spelled out for other VHA members. VHA said
its surveys show that 79% of its members purchase products from
Standard Textile.

+ Bard Urological, Covington, Ga., adding urological specialty
items to the acute care products that have been covered under VHA's
contract with Bard since 1988. VHA estimates the five-year sole-
source contract, which took effect Jan. 1, will save participating
VHA members between $5.5 million and $9 million annually.
Discounts are on a sliding scale based on a member's volume of
purchases. VHA estimates overall purchases by members could total
$48 million annually.

The new contract includes a 19% discount from list price of the
acute care items and a 15% discount from list on the specialty items.
Members participating in the VHA committed program will receive
additional discounts under the new contract above those spelled out
for other VHA members.

Items covered under the contract include: acute care products--Foley
catheters, Foley catheter trays, drainage bags, urine meters, urethral
trays and midstreams; and specialty care products--stents, baskets,
balloons, urethrals, filiforms and urolase.

Bard controls 70% of the national market for acute care urological
products, and VHA said its surveys show that 81% of its members
purchase products from Bard. Bard is also one of VHA's seven
manufacturers participating in the group's committed purchasing
program.

+ In another move, VHA announced the signing of a dual-source
contract for the supply of electronic information related to
purchasing management. The move marks VHA's decision to stop
marketing its own software.

The contract is with Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Ill., and
Choice Medical Inc., Louisville, Ky. Abbott's offering, called
QUIK LINK, and support services will be offered free to VHA
organizations. Choice Medical's software, called ECHO, is being
offered at a discount.

VHA's in-house EDI packages are called VHA-Net COM and VHA-
Net CAP, and are used by 250 VHA members. Abbott's and
Choice's packages will be marketed primarily to those members. A
few VHA members now use Abbott or Choice software.

VHA said the advantages both products have over VHA's systems
is that users can transmit orders to more suppliers, and users can
add suppliers to the software more easily. Both programs also
support transactions using electronic data interchange (EDI).



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

VA GETS $10 MILLION SETTLEMENT FROM U.S.
SURGICAL ON DISCOUNT ISSUE

The U.S. Veterans Administration (VA) will receive $10 million
from U.S. Surgical Corp., Norwalk, Conn., to settle a dispute in
which the VA alleged the company didn't offer the same discounts
on its products to the government as it did to other customers. The
Wall Street Journal reported that the VA purchased about $56
million of surgical devices from U.S. Surgical from 1989 to 1993,
but paid higher prices than it should have. The settlement ends a
dispute that the VA and U.S. Surgical have been discussing since
1993.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

DEPT. OF DEFENSE AWARDS TWO PRIME VENDOR DEALS
TO OWENS & MINOR

The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) has awarded two medical-
surgical supply prime vendor contracts to Owens & Minor Inc.,
Richmond, Va. The two are worth about $22 million in the first
year.

The first award is for one year, with four one-year option periods,
and covers 12 DoD facilities in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida. DoD estimates the value of the contract at $8 million the
first year and $76 million over five years. The contract takes effect
Jan. 15.

The second award is also for one year, with four one-year options.
It covers 22 facilities in Florida and Georgia. DoD estimates the
value of that contract at $14 million the first year and $91 million
over five years. The contract takes effect Jan. 8.

The DoD divides its $800 million of med-surg business into 21
regions. The two awards to Owens' means the distributor now
serves five of those 21 regions under a prime vendor arrangement.
The other three regions, with Owens' annual sales volume from
each, are: Lone Star region, covering Texas and Oklahoma--$27
million; National Capital region, covering the District of Columbia--
$21 million; and the Tidewater region, covering Virginia--$9.6
million.

Most of the supplies will be handled by traditional bulk distribution,
but a few facilities will operated under Owens' enhanced distribution
program.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

SHARED SERVICES INKS CONTRACT FOR IOLS, PHACO
EQUIPMENT WITH CHIRON/IOLAB

Shared Services Healthcare Inc., Atlanta, signed a sole-source
contract for California intraocular lens manufacturer Chiron/Iolab's
full line of regular and specialty lenses, as well as kits and packs,
that is expected to generate significant purchases and savings for
SSH's 532 member facilities.

Pricing for the regular and specialty lenses is a sliding scale based
on commitment, with increasingly discounted pricing for higher
volumes to a commitment level of 75%. Facilities willing to commit
more than 75% of their annual volume can negotiate even better
pricing. Kits and packs are negotiated by each facility and also are
based on committed volume.

The contract covers ancillary products in addition to the lenses,
including Amvisc syringes and fluids. But perhaps the most enticing
addition to the offering is a separate contract for phacoemulsification
equipment. The surgical equipment is offered to SSH members at
significant price discounts from list, and includes phaco accessories
like remote control, tips and tubing. The equipment also is based on
a tiered pricing structure, but because it is a separate contract, it can
be accessed without having to commit to purchases of IOLs.

Anita Fredericks, director of SSH's purchasing program, said the
group anticipates high usage of both contracts because of what she
termed aggressive pricing by Chiron/Iolab.

Chiron has been aggressively pursuing market share in a soft market
dominated by a handful of manufacturers. The company is the
product of the $95 million buyout in early 1995 of Iolab Corp.,
Claremont, Calif., by Chiron Ophthalmics Inc., Irvine, Calif.
Respondents to HMM's IOL price survey ("IOL prices continue
sliding in the face of competition, vendor consolidation," HMM,
December 1995, p.1) reported continuing price declines in the prices
hospitals and group purchasing organizations are paying for IOLs.
They noted that prices are soft and manufacturers are willing to
consider price reductions. Without exception, respondents cited
competition as the major factor influencing IOL prices.

The contract took effect Dec. 1, 1995, and runs for two years.

SSH also awarded several other contracts recently:

+ Chemistry analyzers to Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick,
N.J., and Olympus America Inc., Lake Success, N.Y.

+ Urinalysis systems and immunoassay systems to Miles Inc.
Diagnostic Division, Tarrytown, N.Y.

+ Pathology and cytology equipment to Shandon Lipshaw,
Pittsburgh.

+ Bone densitometers to Lunar Corp., based in Madison, Wis.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

AMERINET TO BUY CONSULTING FIRM KOWALSKI-
DICKOW ASSOCIATES

Group purchasing organization AmeriNet Inc., St. Louis, is buying
the Milwaukee-based health care consulting firm of Kowalski-
Dickow Associates.

Reliable sources told HMM the purchase was to close before the end
of December 1995, pending the outcome of due diligence
proceedings, although the sources said it is unlikely there will be
any hitches in the process.

No details on financial arrangements were available at press time,
and there were no indications of whether Kowalski-Dickow would
move its offices or staff to St. Louis.

Joseph Mulroy, president of AmeriNet, told HMM that the GPO and
Kowalski-Dickow have been discussing a deal, but that no decisions
have been made on the purchase. He said any further speculation
would be premature. Jamie Kowalski, president of Kowalski-
Dickow, was out of town and unavailable for comment.

Mulroy said the idea of adding a consulting service to AmeriNet's
operations is "just a new dimension for AmeriNet to assist members
to reduce supply costs and gain greater efficiencies in the use of their
products and staffing."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

AMERINET ANNUAL REPORT SHOWS SIGNIFICANT
GAINS FOR GPO, IN SPITE OF LOSS OF MEMBERS FOR
VECTOR HEALTHSYSTEMS

AmeriNet Inc., St. Louis, posted another record year in 1995,
showing a 23.2% increase in contracted purchasing volume over
1994. That gain came at a time when Vector Healthsystems,
Providence, R.I., one of AmeriNet's three shareholder
organizations, incurred a 14% drop in member facilities,
representing a 22% drop in beds. AmeriNet also returned more than
$8 million to its members, up from 1994's $6 million.

Contracted purchases in fiscal year 1995 (ending Sept. 30) totaled
$2.76 billion, up 23.2% from 1994's $2.24 billion. Since its first
full year of business in 1987, when the company had contract sales
of $258 million, growth has been an astounding 1,070%.

ValuCare Still Growing

AmeriNet's ValuCare division, a segment that doesn't negotiate its
own agreements, but instead draws its sales figures from the
group's five other divisions on behalf of ValuCare, had contract
participation in fiscal year 1995 of $361 million, 9.1% higher than
last year's $331 million. While off the torrid pace of growth of the
previous year (1994 contracted sales were 42% higher than 1993's),
AmeriNet officials are still pleased with the division's performance.
They cite the fact that ValuCare represented 13% of AmeriNet's total
supplier contract sales volume in 1995.

Vector Membership Down

All of AmeriNet's value divisions performed well, in spite of the
fact that AmeriNet's largest shareholder organization, Vector
Healthsystems, suffered a significant drop in membership.
(AmeriNet's other two shareholder organizations--Intermountain
Health Care, Salt Lake City, and Hospital Shared Services,
Warrendale, Pa.--showed membership increases of 18.7% and
43.4%, respectively.) The number of Vector member facilities fell
by 262 to 1,603, a 14% drop from 1994's level of 1,865. The
number of beds those member facilities represented dropped an even
more precipitous 22.3%, or 36,356 beds, to settle at 126,378, down
from 1994's 162,734. AmeriNet's vice president of finance, Noel
Knobloch, explained that when the SupportHealth group of
hospitals joined AmeriNet through the Vector system, the hospitals
were guaranteed membership in AmeriNet through the end of 1994,
with the option of dropping out of AmeriNet then if they wanted. At
that time a number of hospitals opted out, and Vector's membership
numbers reflect the exodus.

The defections didn't hurt Vector's performance, though. In fact,
Vector showed the greatest gain in sales, jumping $298 million to
$1.13 billion in contracted purchases in 1995 from 1994's level of
$832 million, a 35.8% increase. Following next was Hospital
Shared Services (HSS), with $830 million in sales, a 20.6%
increase, and Intermountain Health Care (IHC), with $800 million
in sales, an 11.1% increase.

All Value Divisions Do Well

Each of AmeriNet's purchasing divisions performed well in 1995.
ValuHealth, the medical-surgical supply contracting division that
accounted for 40.7% of AmeriNet's total sales, posted revenues of
$1.1 billion, a 17.6% increase over 1994's $935 million.
ValuPharm, the pharmaceutical division contributing 34.8% of total
sales, rose by 28.9% in 1995 to $940 million, up 28.9% from
1994's $729 million.

Contract sales through ValuLab, the laboratory arm, increased
26.8% to $260 million from the previous year's $205 million.
ValuFood contract purchases rose 15.7% to $155 million, up from
1994's level of $134 million. ValuQuip capital equipment purchases
increased 27.6% to $250 million, up from the previous year's $196
million.

Membership Numbers Up

Membership numbers are also heartening to AmeriNet executives.
Even after factoring in the losses sustained by Vector, overall
membership was up. The number of member facilities increased 417
to 4,537, a 10.1% increase. ValuCare facilities accounted for 390 of
those 417 additional facilities, a whopping 93.5% of member
growth.

The total number of beds represented by new members, reflecting
both the SupportHealth losses and the nature of the alternate care
market, declined to 306,334, down 3% from 1994's 315,704 beds.
The number of member hospitals also increased in 1995, up 26 to
1,695, a slight 1.6% increase over 1994's level of 1,669. The
number of beds represented by hospital members declined 5.6% to
238,628 from 1994's 252,782.

(Table omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

PROVIDER CRITICISM OF MEDICAL-SURGICAL SUPPLY
DISTRIBUTORS IS BASED ON INCORRECT PERCEPTIONS
AND EXPECTATIONS

By Christopher M. Pancratz
Recently, articles in some trade journals have questioned the service
capabilities of medical-surgical distributors. While these articles
have focused on individual distributors, elements of the criticism
have industry overtones that are based on incorrect perceptions,
most particularly the perception that service levels can continue to
increase while the compensation for those services is reduced.

All service has a cost. When service expectations increase, costs
increase. To reduce cost in a service industry, unneeded and
unnecessary service levels must be identified and removed.

Service Expectations

The entire health care industry is focused on reducing cost and is
making great strides. Distributors of medical-surgical products to
hospitals have significantly reduced their operating expenses. To be
able to continue reducing costs while meeting needed levels of
service, providers and distributors together must set realistic
expectations that consider the volume of a product's usage and the
relative criticality of that product. It does not make sense to invest
scarce resources in attempting to have a fill rate of 98% or more and
six-hour delivery on infrequently used, noncritical products.

Manufacturers, too, need to be more involved in the service
equation. It is extremely difficult for distributors to provide the high
fill rates and short lead times included in today's contracts when
they must replenish from suppliers with 40% or 60% rates and
longer lead times. Additional cost reductions are being delayed
because the technology to drive them is dependent on the electronic
scanning of product information that has not yet been bar coded on
many manufacturers' packages.

One Size Still Doesn't Fit All

While many provider organizations and alliances are writing
multiregional and national contracts for distribution services,
individual local provider sites are asking for flexibility in services.
Proprietary organizations will, over time, be able to bring some
standardization to their systems. Today, however, most of these
facilities, along with those purchasing distribution services through
contracts negotiated by voluntary organizations, are asking
distributors to adapt contract specifications to local needs.
Distribution continues to be a predominantly local function, greatly
influenced by local demographics, transportation and attitudes.

Distribution capacity has shrunk. Recent industry consolidation has
reduced what many thought to be excess capacity from the system.
In a drive for system standardization, large consolidating provider
organizations have focused on a few national and multiregional
distributors, all of which are in the throes of their own
consolidations.

Local hospital materials managers may feel committed to the
agreement in place but know that these few distributors are not
always "the only game in town," as one recent article suggested.
Throughout the country, regional and local distributors are available
to provide backup or special services dictated by local needs. Many
of these distributors have the capabilities to provide all or most of
the services required by the local facility and the contracting
organization.

Value Of Distribution

Some large consolidated provider organizations, again focused on
standardized service, have discussed establishing their own
distribution capabilities. In such a consideration, it is important to
understand the basic functions performed by the distributor. Arthur
Andersen Consulting recently published The Value of Distribution in
the Medical Products Chain, which details these functions. Storage,
receiving, billing, credit and collection, customer service and
returns, transportation and information services are the basic
functions they list and detail. These are the functions that must be
performed by someone for product to be moved from where it is
manufactured to where it is used. Each of these functions involves
resources and costs.

It is important to determine who can perform these functions most
efficiently and economically.

Shared And Realistic Expectations

Service costs! If needed services are to be provided and costs
reduced, all supply chain partners must have shared and realistic
expectations of the service levels to be maintained. Manufacturers
need to continue to work to bring their service to a level that
supports the distributors' service levels to the provider. Providers
and distributors must insist that all products display an industry
standard bar code so investments in technology can bring the needed
return.

Provider groups and alliances need to permit and assist their local
member facilities to identify and utilize regional and local
distributors to supplement service requirements not covered in the
master agreement, or where additional capacity is required.

Providers need to identify their cost of performing basic distribution
functions without medical products distributors involved. Then
compare those costs with the distributors' cost to perform those
basic services.

Distributors have consistently been shown to be the most efficient
and economic source of these services. By working with these
distributors and their manufacturer partners to establish realistic
expectations of the service levels needed, providers ensure the level
of needed service at the best possible cost.

Christopher M. Pancratz is executive director of physician/alternate
care and hospital market groups for the Health Industry Distributors
Assn. in Alexandria, Va.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

IMS DRUG INDEXES CONTINUE SEVEN-QUARTER SLIDE

Hospital Materials Management's pharmaceutical price index
declined by 0.82% in this year's third quarter compared with the
overall index's second quarter 1995 showing. It was the seventh
consecutive quarterly overall pharmaceutical price decrease, but the
index is up 1.02% from the third quarter 1994 level. None of the
five indices registered a quarter-to-quarter price increase.

Psychotherapeutics led the falling prices, dropping 1.50% in the
third quarter. Like the overall index, it was the seventh straight price
decline for this category of medications. Following close behind
psychotherapeutics was the price decrease experienced by anti-
infective non-cephalosporins, which fell 1.38% in the third quarter
from the second quarter.

HMM obtains its indexes from IMS America Ltd., Plymouth
Meeting, Pa. This quarter's index is updated to a base period of the
third quarter 1994.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDICAL BRANCH PARES
$500,000 FROM ITS OPERATING ROOM MATERIALS AND
SUPPLIES BUDGET

The University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB), Galveston,
Texas, has taken a knife to costs in its operating rooms and expects
to excise nearly $500,000 each year from materials and supplies for
operating rooms.

In late 1994 UTMB administrators launched an initiative designed to
significantly reduce costs systemwide at the 1,200-bed state teaching
hospital. To that end a joint committee of hospital staffers and
doctors from a physicians' practice plan associated with the hospital
evaluated high-frequency, high-cost operating categories. Task
forces were formed to evaluate 14 different categories, and materials
management personnel sat on 10 of the 14 task forces. The groups
were given eight weeks to present savings plans to the hospitals top
executives.

One of those areas was the operating room. In three meetings over
six weeks in early 1995, a hospital team of clinicians, materials
management executives (headed by Joe Velasquez, the hospital's
director of materials management) and hospital administrators
examined operating room procedures and established baseline
information on utilization and costs. The team, co-chaired by a
general surgeon and the hospital's executive director of nursing,
identified nearly $500,000 in projected annual savings. The savings
dropped the operating room medical-surgical materials budget to
$10.5 million per year, about a 5% savings.

Variety Of Areas Examined

Some decisions were straightforward, such as favoring the use of
nondisposable supplies over reusables, while others tackled more
potentially controversial issues such as the use of brown gloves vs.
white gloves.

UTMB has been standardized on gloves and sutures for several
years with Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, N.J., and Ethicon
Inc., Somerville, N.J., a division of J&J, so UTMB couldn't save
by renegotiating purchase contracts on the items. While UTMB is a
corporate partner with J&J, the items studied by the task force are
supplied under a J&J contract UTMB has with SunHealth Alliance
Inc., Charlotte, N.C. (UTMB's also uses University HealthSystem
Consortium, Oak Brook, Ill., for various group purchasing
contracts.)

Ethicon and J&J assisted in the hospital's cost saving efforts by
analyzing inventory levels, studying product utilization, examining
cases of product duplication or instances where two product codes
could be served adequately by one, and by revamping draping
procedures. In some cases the companies took back unused
inventory.

Where The Savings Are

A number of areas were identified for savings:

+ Sutures. The most significant savings are likely to come from
changes in procedures after a thorough evaluation of operating room
lines of sutures. Velasquez thinks making all the changes, a few of
which have yet to be initiated, will save close to $185,000 and drop
operating room annual expenses on sutures to $980,000. A waste
suture and material study revealed $80,000 in savings, and deleting
suture codes that are used infrequently or not at all saved another
$18,000. Ordering slow-moving sutures less frequently should cut
another $18,000 from the operating room budget, and deleting
redundant codes--or codes that can be switched for other codes with
no change in efficacy--saved another $5,000 per year. Making
changes in the use of dyed and undyed Vicryl sutures bumped
$11,000 out of the expense column, and changing from PS needles
to FS needles could save nearly $12,000. An additional $40,000 in
savings could be realized as the hospital begins resterilizing opened
but unused suture packs.

+ Instruments. Switching to reusable lap chole instruments can
produce significant savings, estimated at almost $125,000 per year.
Reviewing the contents of custom packs could mean an additional
$30,000 in savings, and changing vendors for hemostatic chemical
products could add another $39,000 in savings.

+ Changing draping procedures should produce $70,000 in annual
savings.

+ Limiting the availability of specialty gloves totes up another
$20,000 in annual savings.

Per Case Cost Drops

Results of the cost-cutting initiative have been significant.
Administrators say the hospital's cost per case has decreased,
although analysis of exact figures hadn't been determined at press
time. Virginia Opipare, UTMB's Hospitals Administrator, said the
results are significant, though. The hospital's cost per case has
decreased through enhanced efficiency and an overall reduction in
costs, she said. The hospital monitors projected budgets and prior
performances, and UTMB is beating both of those targets, she said.

Physicians were closely involved in the cost savings efforts, and for
good reason: In considering procedural changes in areas of
physician preference, a team that included doctors stood a much
better chance of making changes work, since the surgeons on the
team are responsible for carrying the task force's decisions back to
their peers. Dana Fox Jenkins, UTMB's director of clinical
continuous process improvement, said a cultural change like that
doesn't happen overnight. While many hospitals have a difficult
time getting physicians involved, they are an integral part of
UTMB's initiatives. They are key to controlling costs of operations
because they order and use the resources within the hospital, she
said, and when they're part of the decision-making process that
arrives at the outcome, it simplifies implementation of new
procedures.

To make the effort attractive for the docs, the hospital offers a
"gains-sharing plan" under which the hospital and the physicians'
practice plan share in the cost savings. No details on the agreement
were disclosed.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY CONTRACTS FOR FOURTH
STRAIGHT MONTH; PURCHASING MANAGERS'
NOVEMBER INDEX DRIFTS DOWN TO 46.5%

The nation's economy continued to be pulled in two directions in
November, with manufacturing contracting while the overall
economy grew weakly, said the nation's purchasing executives. The
Purchasing Managers' Index dropped in November to May 1995
levels, standing at 46.5%, down from October's 46.8%.

The latest figures supplied by the National Assn. of Purchasing
Management show indexes for Production and Employment down
in November from October levels, while New Orders, Backlogs of
Orders and Inventory indexes were up. Production fell in November
to 45.8% from October's 48.2%, while the Employment index
dipped to 44.1% from October's 45.2%. New Orders edged up to
50.1% from October's 48.1%, Order Backlogs rose to 41.5% from
October's 40.5% and Inventories jumped to 43.2% from 40.7% in
October.

The manufacturing sector showed overall weakness, with most
reporting categories declining. Only four of the 20 industries tracked
by NAPM reported improved performances in November over
October, compared to eight reporting an improvement in October
compared to September.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

PRODUCER PRICE INDEX RISES 0.1% IN NOVEMBER;
MEDICAL CARE COMMODITIES INCREASE BY 0.3%

Analysis: Two selected unadjusted surgical and medical instruments
components of the Producer Price Index showed either no change or
a slight decrease in October, while two orthopedic appliance and
supply components increased.

The trend for the previous 12 months differed slightly, though, as
three of the four categories showed increases, while one--surgical
and medical instruments--increased for the year while slipping for
the month.

(Tables omitted for online service. See print edition.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

LARGE HOSPITALS AND INTEGRATED SYSTEMS ARE
ASKING: ARE GROUP PURCHASING ORGANIZATIONS
REALLY NECESSARY?

By William McFaul
With pressure mounting to reduce expenses, many larger hospitals
and recently formed integrated delivery networks (IDNs) have been
raising the question of whether or not participation in group
purchasing organizations offers real benefits. As cost pressures
continue to intensify and more IDNs form, the question will be
raised frequently: Can we do better on our own?

Frankly, in some instances high-volume purchasers can obtain better
pricing than most, if not all, GPOs, especially if they are able to
achieve a level of generic acceptability on physician preference items
like pacemakers, intraocular lenses and orthopedic implants. In
many instances they can match or beat most GPO contracts for I.V.
solutions, dressings, sutures and other items. Savings on
commodity items, however, are generally minimal and are usually
the result of the losing supplier attempting to undermine group
solidarity by shaving the group price.

Prices are tied to the profit levels of suppliers. Pricing in the health
care industry is related to volume and generic acceptability. One can
visualize pricing reduction as a balloon. If selected GPOs obtain the
very best prices they squeeze the balloon. Since suppliers must
maintain acceptable profit levels, the balloon expands at the other
end. Those GPOs that can deliver volume and commit to change will
fare much better in the long run than those that cannot.

When it comes to using a group purchasing organization, the real
issue should not be today's price on any given contract. If members
expect to realize substantial expense reductions beyond price alone,
the focus should be on the overall portfolio offered by the GPO, its
plans for the future, and the variety of truly beneficial services the
GPO provides.

Hospitals and IDNs would be well advised to ignore prompting
from consultants who have a vested interest in trying to develop
stand-alone volume purchasing processes. While these consultants
receive lucrative contracts and their clients realize short-term
savings, survival in managed care will depend on the hospital's or
IDN's ability to become high-quality, lowest-cost providers in their
areas. The most effective strategy to achieve long-term success in
pricing is to use volume purchasing by supporting a GPO and
finding one that offers long-term benefits.

Potentially, suppliers are another source of attempts to undermine
the GPO concept. While suppliers will not openly attempt to
undermine group purchasing for fear of reprisal from GPOs, we
cannot ignore the fact that group purchasing is to the supply industry
what unions are to management. Simply, suppliers stand to benefit
if group purchasing falters. Therefore, caution must be exercised
when suppliers attempt to break group cohesion or prevent
commitment.

High-volume hospitals and IDNs need to give the group purchasing
industry time to adjust to the rapid changes in health care.
Undoubtedly those facilities that "jump ship" will miss the rewards
when GPOs adjust their processes to obtain volume commitment,
create an environment for generic acceptability and devise a process
to reflect best pricing for their largest participants.

Price reductions are but one means of expense reduction. Today too
many hospitals and IDNs are focusing only on price and inventory
reductions. Far greater savings can be found by addressing
consumption, utilization, clinical path processes that cover all
aspects of expenses, consolidation of services and the development
of true shared services. The last two avenues for expense reduction,
consolidation of services and shared services, will yield enormous
benefits when GPOs evolve into facilitators for interfacing multiple
IDNs from contiguous service areas.

Real success in managing expenses will not come from short-term
gains in price reductions when far greater expense reductions are
available by redirecting energy into addressing the how, what,
where, when, why, who and how many of all expenses. The future
of price reductions depends on volume, commitment, and generic
acceptability. Support your GPO if you want to benefit from price
reductions. The major challenge for health care providers is the
development and implementation of a comprehensive plan to shift
away from merely managing materials and prices into the
management of all expenses.

William McFaul is the founder of and a principal in the Trenton,
N.J.,-based health care consulting firm of McFaul & Lyons Inc.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

OWENS SHOULD OWN UP TO ITS PROBLEMS

To the Editor:
I read with unsympathetic interest a letter from Tom Sherry, vice
president of sales and marketing for Owens & Minor, in your
December 1995 issue.

Mr. Sherry's insinuation that they have valid reasons for their
performance slip is unacceptable. As a purchasing director, I cannot
tell my customer, the patient and nursing staff, "Sorry, the supplies
didn't arrive!" To add insult to injury, Mr. Sherry suggests that
Owens needs to "educate its customers based on product velocity
and criticality of product." Thanks, but no thanks. Sounds like
setting yourself up, and more excuses for future failures. Education
comes from someone who has and continues to understand what
they do!

Simply put, Owens & Minor messed up! Admit it and carry on. I
deal with companies that admit to mistakes and improve themselves.

Dan Salmon, Director of Purchasing
Lewis County General Hospital
Lowville, N.Y.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

Hospital Materials Management. Have over 17 years successful

Hospital Materials Management. Have over 17 years successful
experience as Director of Materials Management and Purchasing in
acute care hospitals, including multi-hospital organizations.
Expertise includes procurement, distribution, value analysis,
systems development, standardization, process improvement, cost
management and inventory management. Technical abilities are
complemented by excellent management, communications and
interpersonal skills. Can be reached at 610-767-6455.

Vice president for materials management. MBA in hospital
administration with more than 10 years of progressive
responsibilities and proven track record. Seeks senior executive-
level position in materials management. Is also available for
consulting, specializing in non-salary expense reduction. Location
New York-New Jersey. Call 201-569-1266.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

Sharon Belletynee was appointed director of materials management

Sharon Belletynee was appointed director of materials management
at Norwegian American Hospital, Chicago. Previously she was
director of materials management at Glenoaks Medical Center,
Glendale Heights, Ill.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

Bruce Haywood has joined McFaul & Lyons Inc., Trenton, N.J., in

Bruce Haywood has joined McFaul & Lyons Inc., Trenton, N.J., in
a newly created position of regional manager, expense management
services. Previously he was director of materials management at
Detroit Medical Center, Detroit.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

David W. Hitchens was named purchasing manager at Rush

David W. Hitchens was named purchasing manager at Rush
Prudential Health Plans, Chicago. Before, he was materials manager
at the National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory
Medicine, Denver.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

John A. Moreno was appointed director of materials management

John A. Moreno was appointed director of materials management
for Doctors Hospital of Hyde Park, Chicago. Previous to that he
was director of purchasing at University of Chicago Hospitals.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

Rick Schlosser has been appointed vice president of materials

Rick Schlosser has been appointed vice president of materials
management with Physician Sales & Service Inc., Jacksonville, Fla.
Previously he was vice president of material management for
American Medical International, Dallas, before its merger with
National Medical Enterprises, Santa Monica, Calif., to become
Tenet Healthcare Corp., Santa Monica.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HEALTH INDUSTRY TODAY:

+ HIT beams into the market leaders in the $200 million-and-
growing surgical laser market in its January issue. The newsletter
also analyzes Baxter's big shakeup and provides a recap of
November's Radiological Society of North America annual meeting.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

PROFILES IN HEALTHCARE MARKETING:

+ January-February's Profiles features Langhorne, Pa.-based
Delaware Valley Medical Center and its establishment of a managed
geropsychiatric unit--the Behavioral Health Center for Older Adults.
This issue of Profiles also includes a cumulative index for 1995.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "37"></A>Copyright
HMM HOSPITAL MATERIALS MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
January 1996

HEALTH CARE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT:

+ HCSM's January cover story highlights outsourcing, identifies
the benefits and pitfalls, and looks at future trends. HCSM asserts
that although the majority of hospitals currently outsourcing have
flat price contracts, in the future that will be replaced by shared risk
and performance based practices.

For information on these and other publications, please call The
Business Word Inc. at 800-328-3211.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-26</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-90</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh60.html 205.156.212.5 19970115023940 text/html 34158
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:37:16 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:27 GMT
Content-length: 33969
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh60.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet <BR>
February 15, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>FDA to Draft New Approval Guidance For Medical&nbsp;Software Regulation</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(434 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Hospital Overhauls Information System To Adopt&nbsp;Client-Server Environment</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(334 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Health Groups Collaborate To Prove Telemedicine's Worth</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(232 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Group Outlines Special License For MDs Doing Telemedicine</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(369 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Hospital Cuts Paper Chase Out of System Buy Process</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(282 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Clinic Tracks Utilization Through Electronic Record</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(457 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Automated Prepayment Screen Could Save Millions, GAO Says</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(290 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>DOWNLOAD</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(616 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(604 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>MARKET SCANNER</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(631 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>SURFING THE 'NET&nbsp;Telemedicine Web Site Offers Product Reviews</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(202 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

FDA to Draft New Approval Guidance For Medical
Software Regulation


To judge whether a software program needs premarket
notification or approval, the FDA may use criteria such as
seriousness of the disease to be diagnosed or treated; time frame
for use of the information; and concordance with accepted medical
practice.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will draft a new software
regulation policy, following controversy in the information systems
industry over the agency's efforts to clarify its 1989 draft policy
(IMS 9/7/95, p. 2).
Some industry representatives feel the FDA is on the right track.
If the revised  policy creates a category for those products that
need little or no regulation, it could mean an easier approval
process for vendors and more technology reaching the users quicker.
While some stand-alone software products such as hospital
information systems and picture archiving and communication systems
do not pose a threat to patients if they fail, they are medical
devices under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and should be
regulated as such, says Dr. Harvey Rudolph, acting deputy director
of the FDA Office of Science and Technology.
Although the FDA guidance aims to identify products that do not
require 510(k) premarket notification, the guidance created more
confusion than clarification, Rudolph admits.
FDA uses the concept of "competent human intervention" to determine
whether a product poses an immediate danger to patients if it
fails. As long as a qualified person, such as a physician, has
control over system output, there is competent human intervention.
The problem, Rudolph says, is manufacturers have interpreted
competent human intervention too broadly.
One system's experience: Base Ten Systems of Trenton, N.J.,
originally submitted a premarket notification for its prenatal
evaluation computer software program, Prenval. But the approval
process took several years because of FDA's inexperience at
regulating software, contends Walter Brandes, company vice
president.
After Base Ten had submitted the request for notification, FDA said
the company needed to go through the lengthier premarket approval
process. But FDA's peer reviewers, in looking over the company's
paperwork, downgraded the product to a 510(k), says Brandes.
The agency wants to develop three levels of device review based on
criteria that determine the impact of product failure on the
patient. 

The criteria include:

o         Seriousness of the disease to be
diagnosed or treated; 
o         Time frame for use of the
information; 
o         Concordance with accepted medical
practice; 
o         Format of data and their
presentation; 
o         Individualized vs. aggregate
patient care recommendations; and 
o         Clarity of the algorithm.

The agency hopes to publish in three to six months a new draft in
the Federal Register.
Contact Rudolph at (301) 443-2444.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Hospital Overhauls Information System To Adopt
Client-Server Environment


Hermann Hospital of Houston is reworking its information system,
leaving its mainframe behind and moving to a client-server environment
that makes information more accessible to the end-user.

Tired of the lack of communication between the components of its
budding integrated delivery system, one Texas hospital decided to
rework its entire information system.
Hermann Hospital of Houston embarked on a three-year initiative to
phase in a system to create an electronic medical record accessible
from all parts of its network, says CIO David Tucker.
Phase one: pilot tests at five or six University of Texas clinics
associated with the hospital. After phase one is complete, the
hospital will focus on integrating other departments, such as
nursing, into the network.
The hospital operates in a mainframe environment, using the
Envision system developed by SMS of Malvern, Pa. Hermann is moving
to a client-server environment that makes information more
accessible to the end-user, Tucker says.
The paperless, client-server system will eliminate the need for
duplicate medical records scattered around the network.
For example, if a patient goes into a clinic in the morning, then
goes to the Hermann emergency room that night, physicians in the ER
have no way of knowing about the encounter that morning and will
draw up a new chart, Tucker says.
Hermann will implement the Health Network Architecture developed by
Cerner Corp. of Kansas City, Mo., to link its network. 
The computerized patient medical records will be stored using
Cerner's Open Clinical Foundation Data Repository. 
Hermann also will implement Cerner's CareNet Care Management System
and Open Management Foundation Data Repository.
When implemented, the system will link about 2,000 devices,
including workstations and printers, located at about 60 clinics in
the area. The system will run on a Digital Equipment Corp. (DEC)
platform and will use Oracle.
Hermann hopes to have the first pilot systems in place by
September.
Tucker foresees complications common to new systems: Hermann staff
has never used the DEC platform or Oracle.
Contact Tucker at (713) 704-3367.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Health Groups Collaborate To Prove Telemedicine's Worth


A new telemedicine research center gives members access to
research databases - and the opportunity to participate in projects
to prove the benefits of telemedicine.

To help prove the clinical utility and cost- effectiveness of
telemedicine, an Oregon research  center launched a group to
cooperate on telemedicine projects nationwide.
The Telemedicine Research Center, a non-profit research corporation
based in Portland, Ore., organized the Clinical Telemedicine
Cooperative Group. The intent: advance telemedicine research
through a cooperative approach to clinical telemedicine trials,
says Mary McDermott, client services manager.
Health care facilities looking to launch their own telemedicine
programs but don't know where to start could benefit from the
research of others.
The group uses e-mail to communicate with members. Members also can
download evaluation tools and training materials based on other
ongoing telemedicine projects.
Members can access research, design and data management protocols,
and other telemedicine information. Members also can conceive,
develop and participate in telemedicine research studies.
Members include East Carolina University, Iowa Health System,
Midwest Rural Telemedicine Consortium, Oregon Health Sciences
University, and the U.S. Army Medical Research and Materials
Command's Medical Advanced Technology Management Office.
In addition to the cooperative group, the center maintains a World
Wide Web home page that links users to other telemedicine Web sites
(see Surfing the 'Net, p. 7).
Contact McDermott at (503) 221-1620, or the research center at
trc@telemed.org on the Internet.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Group Outlines Special License For MDs Doing Telemedicine


The interstate practice of telemedicine may get easier if
a proposal by the Federation of State Medical Boards becomes law.

The Federation of State Medical Boards, based in Euless, Texas,
drafted a model act calling for the establishment of a special
license limited to the interstate practice of medicine, such as
telemedicine (IMS 11/2/95, p. 1).
The group has presented the draft document for recommendation to
state medical boards.
Findings: Physicians practicing medicine across state lines are
either unregulated or must be fully licensed in the state where the
patient is located.
However, some states still feel that a full and unrestricted
license is necessary for the interstate practice of medicine, says
Dr. James Winn, federation executive vice president.

Model Act Is a Step in the Right Direction

While states don't have to adopt the guidance, the proposal does
move toward breaking down the barriers to telemedicine, says Tim
Henderson, director of the Primary Care Resource Center at George
Washington University's Intergovernmental Health Policy Project in
Washington. There is a need for a joint effort to deal with the
fast growth of telemedicine, he says.
The creation of a nationwide licensure standard is so far off that
it is impossible to determine how the act  would affect legislative
efforts in the future, he notes. Henderson suggests seeing how the
effort works in a few states before trying broader implementation.
The proposed act would require physicians engaging in telemedicine
and any interstate practice of medicine to obtain a special license
issued by the state medical board. The license would not allow the
physician to enter the state to practice medicine.
The act would only require those physicians who regularly engage in
the practice of medicine across state lines to obtain a license,
and would exempt physicians in the case of an emergency.
The definitions of "regularly" and "emergency" would be determined
by the board in each state.
The committee further recommends that every consideration for
expedient issuance of the limited medical license be given to
physicians holding a valid, unrestricted license in one state.
The committee plans to meet again at the end of March to finalize
the document.
Contact the federation at (817) 868-4000.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Hospital Cuts Paper Chase Out of System Buy Process


A New York hospital used a 13-member committee to evaluate
on-site demonstrations, interview counterparts at other user
hospitals and rate vendor documentation.

In its search for a new information system, a New York hospital
found an alternative to the usual paper-intensive process of
submitting a request for proposal (RFP) to vendors.
Brooks Memorial Hospital of Dunkirk, N.Y., first sent out a request
for information to 13 vendors and narrowed the choice to seven.
An RFP involves a great deal of paperwork on both sides and is not
filled with information that prospective buyers can really use,
says Vince Ciotti of HIS Professionals of Boonton, N.J., Brooks'
information systems consultant.
Hospital CFO Ralph Webdale chaired a 13-member committee that
included physicians and representa-tives from nursing, billing,
accounting and pharmacy departments. 
For one day a week, each of the seven vendors did on-site demos in
each department.
Committee members independently rated each vendor's software
package, then discussed the systems' strengths and weaknesses as a
group.
A vital element of the review process was the telephone reference,
Webdale says. Each committee member spoke to their counterparts at
hospitals that had installed the vendors' products, then rated and
discussed each product based on the conversations.
The final step was to rate the documentation of the top six vendors
based on criteria such as ease-of-use.
In the end, the committee came to a unanimous decision to buy a
Meditech system.
Tip: One of the criteria Ciotti uses to put together a list of
potential vendors is location. Some hospitals have spent up to
$100,000 flying vendors in for demos or for service, Ciotti says.
Contact Ciotti at (201) 263-4795, or Webdale at (716) 366-1111.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Clinic Tracks Utilization Through Electronic Record


The system collects patient demographics data at
registration on an IBM AS/400  workstation linked to the central
database and automatically updates the patient record. Billing
information is sent in daily batches to the database. The system
runs on a Novell 4.0 network.

To track patient utilization and improve allocation of resources,
a multisite Iowa provider group decided to use a computerized
medical record system.
The Iowa Physicians Clinic Medical Foundation will install
computerized medical record systems in about 15 sites around the
state, according to Dr. Mark Purtle, director of internal medicine.
The group chose the MR 2000 computerized medical record program
developed by Healthcare Software Solutions, a subsidiary of Blue
Cross and Blue Shield of Iowa, based in Des Moines.
The group has patient record systems up and running, although only
in partial installation, in about half of its sites. 
While the MR 2000 includes modules for finance, health maintenance,
drug formularies and drug interactions, the group uses the system
primarily for demographics and patient encounter information.

Registration System Collects Demographics

Patient demographics data is collected at registration on an IBM
AS/400 workstation linked to the central database. The system
automatically updates the patient record. Billing information is
sent in daily batches to the database.
The system runs on a Novell 4.0 network.
Instead of entering encounter notes directly into the record,
physicians record notes, which are then transcribed and entered
into the record. 
The system also includes a ICD-9 and CPT-4 coding module, but
coding is still not widespread among physicians, Purtle notes.
All clinic sites can access records stored in the central database.
However, each site maintains a server with its own records.
Workstations are located at all physician offices, nurse stations
and registration desks. When the system is fully installed, there
will be workstations in every exam room.
Caveat: The electronic medical record has not yet eliminated the
need for a paper record. The group may use a scanner to create
electronic images of the paper records.
The group hopes to build a complete database of codes and
demographics that tracks encounters by provider and clinic site. 
Being able to track seasonal variations in utilization would enable
the group to better plan the number of physicians it needs during
certain periods of the year or the type of physician it would need
in a certain  community.
According to Purtle, the implementation process has been slow. The
hold-up is due in part to physicians getting used to computers. In
addition, the group is awaiting release of a Windows version of the
software before continuing implementation.
The group hopes to have the system fully implemented at all its
sites by the end of the year.
Contact Purtle at (515) 241-4000. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

Automated Prepayment Screen Could Save Millions, GAO Says


HCFA says half of Medicare Part B contractors have
installed the screening tools, but Congress hasn't appropriated the
money to support the program. But GAO contends the tool could save
HCFA $150 million a year.

HCFA could save millions of dollars by using automated prepayment
screens for Medicare claims, according to a report released earlier
this month by the General Accounting Office.
A simple safeguard, known as an auto-adjudicated prepayment screen,
could save millions of dollars in unnecessary Medicare payments,
GAO officials said at a Feb. 8 House Government Reform and
Oversight Human Resources and Intergovernmental Relations
Subcommittee hearing.
Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.), subcommittee chairman, said there
is very little reason why HCFA should not require the screens to be
used whenever possible.
While half of Medicare contractors have installed the screens, they
don't use them because of the limited funds appropriated by
Congress for medical review, according to Gary Kavanagh, deputy
director of HCFA's Bureau of Program Operations. Another obstacle:
lack of a nationwide standard payment policy, he added.
HCFA has three model policies in place to examine whether the
screens work and is planning more by the summer, Kavanagh said.
However, he expressed doubt that the screens would save a "whole
lot of money."
The GAO based its findings on claims for six common medical
procedures submitted to the seven largest Medicare Part B
contractors, and determined HCFA could save about $150 million on
those procedures alone.
The six procedures, which account for almost $3 billion in Medicare
payments, are echocardiography, eye exams, chest X-rays,
colonoscopy, YAG laser surgery and duplex scan of extracranial
arteries.
To order a copy of the report, GAO/HEHS-96-49, call (202) 512-6000.
To place an order by fax, dial (301) 258-4066.  




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

DOWNLOAD


         The U.S. Department of Justice
indicted a group of Michigan medical suppliers for allegedly
defrauding Medicare of $25 million through an electronic billing
scheme. Through assorted companies, the suppliers allegedly
electronically billed Medicare's fiscal intermediary Blue Cross and
Blue Shield of Michigan for questionable supplies, including kits
for catheters, incontinence and gastronomy tubes. The suppliers
allegedly back-dated claims and billed Medicare separately for
components of kits as well as the kits themselves. When Blue Cross
got suspicious and subjected claims to prepayment review, the
suppliers allegedly switched to provider identification numbers
that seemed unrelated to their companies, and billed Medicare
carriers in Florida and Ohio.

         The wide variation in the
information systems capabilities of health plans affects how
completely plans can report measures for the Health Plan Employer
Data and Information Set, according to the Committee on Performance
Measurement of the National Committee for Quality Assurance. At a
recent meeting of the committee, members concluded that the best
strategy is to design measures for HEDIS 3.0, set for release this
summer, that many plans can produce with current information
systems, but that would provide users, over time, with information
they need for measurement. Contact NCQA at (202) 955-3500.

         HCFA on Feb.5 issued a call for
comments on its proposed automated National Provider System for
collecting health care information. The system will be used in
program operations and management to assign provider identification
numbers, such as billing numbers for claims processing and payment.
For a copy of the proposal, call (410) 786-1326. Send comments and
recommendations to OMB Human Resources and Housing Branch,
Attention: Allison Eydt, New Executive Office Building, Room 10235,
Washington, D.C. 20503.

         A draft HHS budget proposal may
expand rural telemedicine grants to rural primary care hospitals
and sole community hospitals.

         The National Health Council of
Washington and Chicago-based America's House Call Network entered
into a strategic alliance to disseminate health information to
consumers through the House Call network. The council will offer
members assistance in using the interactive services of the
network, including disease forums, chat rooms, health news and
interactive conferences. Contact the council at (202) 785-3910.

         The Uniform Code Council of Dayton,
Ohio, released a video and literature package that addresses the
product identification needs of the health care industry.
"Application Identifiers: At the Heart of Health Care Product
Identification" focuses on mapping data-structure requirements to
industry-defined business requirements. The video and accompanying
brochure describe product identification and bar-coding for
pharmaceutical and medical-surgical products. Contact the council
at (513) 435-3870.

         A coalition of state education,
military, health care and private sector groups has launched the
Texas Distance Learning Assn. to address, in part, the importance
of telemedicine. Contact the association at (512) 280-2500.

         A far greater percentage of rural
health care facilities than previously thought is using
telemedicine to access specialists at large urban health centers
for patient care, according to a study on telemedicine by Abt
Associates Inc. of Cambridge, Mass. The study was funded by the
Office of Rural Health Policy and tallied the responses of 2,365
facilities, or 95% of the nation's rural hospitals. According to
the study, 29% of facilities have adopted telemedicine programs,
ranging from teleradiology to interactive video, or plan to by the
end of the year; about 30% of telemedicine programs were created
within the last year and 30% between one and three years ago; of
the facilities with telemedicine programs, 66% seek out specialty
consultation, while 10% provide consultation services to others,
with the remainder serving in both capacities; and the average
rural hospital that seeks consultations from specialists using
telemedicine receives 15 teleconsultations each month. For more
information, contact Abt at (617) 492-7100.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS


        Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose,
Calif., will use as its document management solution the NovaManage
system from Novasoft Systems Inc. of Burlington, Mass. NovaManage
will serve as the core technology within Cisco's enterprisewide
project data management application, integrating with additional
Cisco information systems. NovaManage is based on Novasoft's
Cellular Document Management architecture. Cisco also plans to
integrate Novasoft's NovaWeb, which allows users to remotely access
business-critical NovaManage documents from the system's Web
client. Novasoft's products are used in the pharmaceutical and
medical device industry. Contact Novasoft at (617) 221-0300.

        Allscrips Pharmaceuticals Inc. of
Vernon Hills, Ill., completed its merger with Chadds Ford,
Pa.-based Physician Dispensing Systems Inc., developer of an
on-line drug dispensing and information system. The merger will
link prescription dispensing with clinical, medication and
insurance data management in a single information system at the
point of care. Allscrips' proprietary software for doctor's offices
provides on-line information about clinical profiles, drug
interactions and other data to help guide physicians to the most
appropriate prescribing choices.  Allscrips will use Physician
Dispensing Systems' technology to link prescription information
to payer data and patients' personal medical information on-line.
Contact Allscrips at (708) 680-3515.

        Zenith Data Systems of Buffalo Grove,
Ill., introduced MultiCruise, a mobile system that provides
simultaneous, remote, real-time access to applications and data on
a central Microsoft Windows NT server. Users can access and update
patient information stored on the MultiCruise system from anywhere
in the medical facility using the CruisePAD, a wireless touchpad.
MultiCruise allows the CruisePAD to remotely control multiple
Windows-based sessions running on the MultiCruise server. The
system uses an organization's existing software and standard
MS-DOS, Window 3.X, Windows 95 and Window NT-based applications.
Contact Zenith at (708) 808-5000.

        Phoenix-based National Health
Enhancement Systems Inc., a developer of medical call centers,
partnered with Cognos, headquartered in both Ottawa, Canada, and
Burlington, Mass. National Health Enhancement will incorporate
Cognos' data access and reporting tool, PowerPlay, in its
Centramax.M software products. Centramax.M is a configurable
software program that manages clinical and non-clinical call center
functions, including customer communication, database management
and triage/advice systems. Contact Cognos at (617) 229-6600, or
National Health at (602) 230-7575.

        Interactive Buyers Network
International of Ventura, Calif., created a global on-line
marketplace using its SOURCE interactive software. Users, such as
Providence St. Joseph Medical Center, can access competitive
pricing from inside or outside their normal pool of vendors.
Contact Interactive Buyers Network International at (800) 949-7353.

        Aware Inc. of Bedford, Mass., and
Access Radiology Corp. of Waltham, Mass., will integrate Aware's
medical implementation of wavelet compression with Access's image
management product line, Framewave. Access Framewave is a family of
digital image acquisition and communication products using Aware's
wavelet-based image compression to manage diagnostic quality
medical images in wide-area applications. Framewave film digitizers
and frame-grab devices use Aware's compression technology to
eliminate the need for dedicated, broadband telecommunications in
wide-area applications. Contact Aware at (617) 276-4000.

        Informed Access Systems Inc. of
Boulder, Colo.,  received a U.S. patent for FirstHelp, a system
to manage consumer demand for medical services. FirstHelp is an
automated patient assessment and provider referral system that is
used by health plans and health care providers to help guide
patients to an appropriate level and type of medical care based
upon their needs. The system is made up of two components: the
patient assessment component, an automated set of proprietary
patient assessment algorithms; and the provider information
component, a proprietary relational database containing the
information necessary to differentiate the providers participating
in a network and to manage the patient flow into their practices.
Contact Informed Access at (303) 443-4600.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

MARKET SCANNER


         The Northwest Academic Computing
Consortium of Bellevue, Wash., spun off its Internet service arm to
form a for-profit company, NorthWestNet Inc. NorthWestNet provides
Internet service to health care companies, such as the Group Health
Cooperative of Puget Sound. The company is expanding its services
to include frame relay connections, World Wide Web site, hosting
and bulk Internet e-mail list services. Contact NorthWestNet at
(206) 649-7400.

         Hospital Cost Consultants Inc., a
subsidiary of CIS Technologies Inc. of Tulsa, Okla., signed three
agreements to implement various applications of its 3-D financials
product line, which allows providers to proactively address
revenue, cost and market share. The agreements are with Holy Cross
Hospital of Chicago, the University of Tennessee Medical Center at
Knoxville, and St. Mary-Corwin Regional Medical Center in Pueblo,
Colo. Holy Cross will purchase the AS/400-based cost-accounting
software application to provide cost management and strategic
planning. The University of Tennessee will implement the
Distinction, Dividend and Domain managed care systems. St.
Mary-Corwin will implement the most recent version of the
Distinction: Contract Management System and an IBM, RS/6000 C-10
Compact Server. Contact CIS at (918) 496-2451.

         National Data Corp. of Atlanta
acquired Cleveland-based Conceptual Systems Corp., a provider of
electronic claims processing services and practice management
systems for physicians, hospitals and other health care businesses.
Conceptual processed more than 10 million health care transactions
last year, including insurance and benefits eligibility
verification, co-insurance billing, payment verification and
electronic data interchange services. Contact National Data at
(404) 728-2000.

         CyData Inc., a physician and
hospital EDI services vendor based in Scottsdale, Ariz., received
national clearinghouse accreditation from the Electronic
Healthcare Network Accreditation Commission. Contact CyData at
(800) 336-4018.

         The Associated Group, an
Indianopolis-based insurance company, selected Unisys Corp. of Blue
Bell, Pa., to provide information systems management services. The
contract has an estimated value of more than $100 million over its
first five years and includes the purchase by Unisys of information
technology assets from the insurer. Unisys will operate and manage
the insurer's information systems data center facilities in
Indianapolis, Cincinnati, and Louisville, Ky. Contact the
Associated Group at (317) 488-6248.

         HCIA Inc. of Baltimore announced a
net income per share for the fourth quarter, excluding a
non-recurring charge, of $.18, an increase of 350% over 1994. For
the year, the company had a net income per share of $.60. Contact
HCIA at (410) 332-7515.

         The Health Insurance Plan of New
York will install the Managed Care System developed by CareWare
Systems of Tampa, Fla. The plan will use the software to perform
precertification of care, medical case management, utilization
review and medical bill re-pricing for HIP's newly certified
Workers' Compensation Managed Care Organization, HIP-COMP. The
PC-based software uses Windows technology and allows users to
control the selection, delivery and costs of services appropriate
to patient conditions. Contact CareWare at (800) 766-1736.

         OSF Health Plans Inc. of Peoria,
Ill., is installing the MEDSYTE decision support system developed
by O'PIN Systems Inc. of Bloomington, Minn. The health plan will
use the system to guide utilization management and continuous
quality improvement. The plan will also use O'PIN's HEDIS 2.5
Reporting system to evaluate and trend plan performance for
employer groups. Contact O'PIN at (612) 883-2888.

         DKD, a member of the Provider
Division of the MEDSTAT Group of Ann Arbor, Mich., signed eight new
contracts for the installation of the  ASCENT Managed Care
Information and Quality Management Systems: Loyola University
Medical Center of Maywood, Ill.; University of Michigan Medical
Center of Ann Arbor, Mich.; Parkland Memorial Hospital of Dallas;
St. Joseph's Hospital Health Center of Syracuse, N.Y.; Englewood
Hospital of Englewood, N.J.; Health Management Associates Inc. of
Naples, Fla.; Ingalls Health System of Harvey, Ill.; and Copley
Memorial Hospital of Aurora, Ill. Contact MEDSTAT at (313)
996-1180.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES via NewsNet
February 15, 1996

SURFING THE 'NET
Telemedicine Web Site Offers Product Reviews


The Telemedicine Information Exchange World Wide Web site,
maintained by the Telemedicine Research Center of Portland, Ore.,
links users to a telemedicine products and services directory that
catalogs articles on equipment reviews, evaluations or technical
specs.
Once you choose a browser, you will have a selection of three
menus: (1) starters; (2) hot items; and (3) searchable databases.
From the starter menu, users can get the history and definition of
telemedicine, or read case studies on telemedicine in action and
the latest news, including legislative issues and success stories.
Users can also offer feedback on the site.
Under the hot items menu, users can explore the legal and ethical
issues surrounding telemedicine through the text of current state
legislation, peer-reviewed articles and hypertext links to other
Internet resources.
The searchable databases include information on funding for
telemedicine projects, active projects, and upcoming meetings and
conferences.
The site also offers information on the Telemedicine Research
Center's Clinical Telemedicine Cooperative Group that brings
together researchers nationwide (see story, p. 2).
The site's home page lets you choose a text-only or a graphic
browser, enabling users to sacrifice aesthetics for the sake of
speed.
The site is located at http://tie.telemed.org/ on the Web.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-27</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-150</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh67.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024027 text/html 118242
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:38:18 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:30 GMT
Content-length: 118052
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh67.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet <BR>
January 1, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>HISTORIC US GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN ENDS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(426 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>HOECHST MARION ROUSSEL RESTRUCTURES IN 1996</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(502 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>UK APPROVES FIRST PRIVATELY FUNDED HOSPITAL PROJECT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(425 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>SWISS INSURANCE COMPANIES TAKE AIM AT PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(395 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>FRENCH HEALTH INSURERS TO STUDY COST CONTAINMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(229 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>BURE ACQUIRES PREVIA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(234 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>FRENCH ACQUISITION OF AUSTRALIAN HOSPITAL COMPANY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(120 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>ARJO UNDER THE SPOTLIGHT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(205 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>CANADIAN RED CROSS UNVEILS SELF-SUFFICIENT BLOOD STRATEGY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(397 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>EU'S 4TH FRAMEWORK HEALTH TELEMATICS PROJECTS SET TO BEGIN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(347 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>CONFERENCE REPORT</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>HEALTH MINISTER OUTLINES POLICY ON IT IN HEALTHCARE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(374 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>DIABCARD TRIAL IN BARCELONA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(225 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>INFOMIX - A SUCCESS IN HUNGARIAN HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(488 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><LI>ALBERTA TESTS SMART CARD</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(253 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>PUBLICATIONS REVIEW</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#15"><LI>NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE MAKES PROFIT FROM PRIVATE PATIENTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(280 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><LI>UK ANNOUNCES SPENDING ON HEALTH</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(287 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><LI>STUDY SHOWS UK HOSPITAL INTENSIVE CARE NEEDS IMPROVEMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(370 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><LI>IRELAND TO PROMOTE EXPORT SALES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(194 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><LI>FRENCH HOSPITAL REFORM REMAINS TO BE DETERMINED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(545 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><LI>FRANCE SUPPORTS AIDS CAMPAIGN</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(315 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#21"><LI>FRANCE INCREASES PACE OF CHANGE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(516 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>CONFERENCE REPORT</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#22"><LI>EUROPEAN HEALTH MINISTERS SIGNAL TOUGHER ACTION ON ALCOHOL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(323 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#23"><LI>GERMANY AHEAD OF SCHEDULE ON TRACKING DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(469 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#24"><LI>TRANSPLANT LAW FOR GERMANY AT LAST?</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(464 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#25"><LI>ITALY DRASTICALLY CUTS 1996 SPENDING FOR PHARMACEUTICALS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(360 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#26"><LI>ITALIANS CONSULT TRAVEL AGENTS FIRST WHEN TAKEN ILL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(279 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>PUBLICATIONS REVIEW</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#27"><LI>AUSTRIAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION OFFERS REFORM PROPOSALS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(226 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#28"><LI>WHO CASH CRISIS DEEPENS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(285 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#29"><LI>UNAIDS STARTS UP AMID DOUBTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(364 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#30"><LI>SPAIN FINDS 1996 FULL OF HEALTH SYSTEM PROBLEMS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(380 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#31"><LI>NORWEGIAN DOCTORS FAVOUR PRIVATISATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(424 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#32"><LI>FDA FLOODED WITH RESPONSES TO PROPOSED CIGARETTE RULING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(588 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>NEWS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#33"><LI>MEDICAL MALPRACTICE AWARDS RISE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(78 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#34"><LI>ALBERTA WILL NOT CUT DOCTOR FEES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(155 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#35"><LI>MEXICO PLANS TO EXTEND HEALTHCARE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(162 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#36"><LI>JAPANESE GROUP TO FIGHT MALPRACTICE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(172 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#37"><LI>JAPAN PROPOSES TO REDUCE PHARMACEUTICAL SPENDING</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(471 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#38"><LI>TAIWAN'S NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE IN JEOPARDY</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(313 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#39"><LI>MEDICAL BENEFITS COMPENSATION LEGISLATION PROPOSED</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(370 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#40"><LI>NEW ZEALAND AND AUSTRALIA AMEND MEDICAL PRACTITIONER LAWS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(340 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#41"><LI>NEW ZEALAND ADDS MONEY TO CUT WAITING LISTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(347 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#42"><LI>SOUTH AFRICA HEALTH REFORMS TO CURTAIL DRUG SALES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(224 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#43"><LI>HUNGARIAN DRUG COMPANIES HOLD STEADY IN SPITE OF COMPETITION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(498 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#44"><LI>BRACCO PURCHASES INTEREST IN ESAOTE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(72 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#45"><LI>BB MEDTECH FORMED TO INVEST IN MEDICAL AND HEALTHCARE COMPANIES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(64 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#46"><LI>SUN LIFE AWARDED CANADA'S HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(74 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#47"><LI>SWEDISH MEDICAL LABORATORIES MERG</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(48 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#48"><LI>SYNECTICS MEDICAL BUYS ALL SHARES IN DANTEC MEDICAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(97 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#49"><LI>MEDSTAT GROUP CONTRACT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(47 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#50"><LI>FLORIDA HEALTH CENTRES SOLD TO HUMANA</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(55 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#51"><LI>AARP TO END ARRANGEMENT WITH PRUDENTIAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(71 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#52"><LI>HEALTHSOUTH TO PURCHASE ADVANTAGE HEALTH CORP</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(82 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#53"><LI>STERIS TO ACQUIRE AMSCO INTERNATIONAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(99 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#54"><LI>BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB TO ACQUIRE 77 PER CENT OF PHARMAVIT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(65 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#55"><LI>MEDICAL DEVICES SECTOR SHOWS STRONG GROWTH POTENTIAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(682 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

HISTORIC US GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN ENDS

WASHINGTON, DC - The 21 day partial US federal government shutdown
ended 5 January 1996, when president Bill Clinton signed legislation
that temporarily brings back to work one-quarter of a million people
furloughed during a budget impasse. A compromise was reached with the
Republican party-controlled Congress agreeing to back-pay the
furloughed federal employees, as well as the nearly half million who
were working without full pay since 16 December 1995. The president and
Congress had been at an impasse to agree on a seven year plan to
balance the budget by the year 2002 and which programmes and taxes
would be decreased to accomplish that goal.

This furlough followed a one-week shutdown in November and is only
resolved until the temporary legislation runs out on 26 January.
Federal employees will not be secure in their jobs or funding of the
programmes they run until departmental appropriation bills are passed
and signed by the president. Although Clinton has put forth a balanced
budget, with figures validated by the Congressional Budget Office, the
Democratic and Republican parties remain far apart in their views about
entitlement programmes and the role of the federal government vis-a-vis
the states.

While IHN predicted a collision course between the president and the
congress on Medicare and Medicaid (IHN 6, November, 1995, page 1), IHN
did not expect federal employees to be held hostage. These two
programmes, however, are major points of contention along with tax cuts
and welfare reform. The table illustrates the differences in savings
for the four programmes projected by the president and Congress at the
conclusion of talks on 7 January.

Programmes            Clinton savings       Republican savings

Medicare              $102 billion          $201 billion
Medicaid              $52 billion           $117 billion
Tax cuts              $87 billion           $241 billion
Welfare               $45 billion           $82 billion

Sources: Congressional Budget Office, White House

While the Department of Health and Human Services is still without an
approved budget, the 5 January agreement did provide funding through 30
September, the end of this fiscal year, for the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) and the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention and
several other health agencies. The Food and Drug Administration, by the
way, was unaffected because it was under the Department of
Agriculture's previously appropriated budget.

The shutdown has long-term rippling effects for the healthcare sector.
For example, researchers at nearly 1,700 hospitals and university
research centres are unable to begin or continue projects funded by NIH
grants. Wendy Baldwin, NIH grants supervisor said, "It is going to take
months to straighten out the backlog."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

HOECHST MARION ROUSSEL RESTRUCTURES IN 1996

FRANKFURT -- Hoechst Marion Roussel (HMR) recently announced its 1996
plans for worldwide restructuring. HMR plans to abolish 8,000 jobs this
year; about one-third of the losses will be in Europe (1,400 in
Germany), 20 per cent in North America, and 25 per cent in the Asian,
Pacific region. The company currently employs 43,000 people. About 40
per cent of the job cuts will be in manufacturing and about half will
be administrative and sales staff.

"Hoechst is no longer a German company with an international business,
but an international multi-cultural company with headquarters in
Germany", claims HMR spokesman, Joachim Pietzsch, when describing the
current state of the company's affairs.  "The traditional German
chemical company founded in 1863 in a village near Frankfurt is now
undergoing dramatic changes. In a few years drugs will be only
connected with Hoechst Marion Roussel instead of just Hoechst."

Since Jurgen Dormann took over as managing director in April 1994, the
company has concentrated on the three core areas of pharmaceuticals,
plant protection and industrial chemistry. Major acquisitions and
several co-operative arrangements have been made in these areas, while
cosmetic and chemical companies have been sold.

In July 1995, Hoechst acquired the American pharmaceutical company
Marion Merrel Dow for $7.1 billion. This was the largest acquisition
ever made by a German company. Several years ago, Hoechst purchased the
French company Roussel and the restructuring marks an overhaul and
integration of its drug division.

Increase profit margins by 30 per cent

The restructuring, estimated to cost about DM1.1 billion ($758.6
million), is expected to increase drug profit margins by 30 per cent
over three years. The plan calls for reducing the number of HMR's drug
production sites to 40, about half of the current number. There will be
four research centres: Frankfurt (Germany), Romainville (France),
Sommerville (US) and Kawagoe (Japan). These centres will focus on the
mechanisms and therapeutic options for cardiovascular, metabolic,
infectious and oncological diseases, as well as ailments of the bones
and central nervous and respiratory systems. A centre will be closed in
each of the following cities: Cincinatti (US), Strasbourg (France),
Swindon (UK) and Gerenzano, Italy.

Frankfurt will keep its dominant position, said director Karl-Gerhard
Seifert, who is responsible for HMR's pharmaceutical business. He will
work with a multi-cultural executive committee of 12 managers. A drug
development centre will be established in Sommerville, New Jersey and
the centre will be responsible for marketing, business development and
drug submissions.

The strategic aim is to register two new drugs per year. Drug
submissions will be expedited by continuous data transfer between the
centres of HMR.

"We have 15 top projects", said Pietzsch. Three of them are in the area
of gene technology: Hirudin, Factor XIII and human insulin. In the
past, Hoechst was not a major player in gene therapy, but with HMR
centres on the US east coast and several co-operative arrangements with
small, specialised biotechnology companies, HMR currently has a strong
involvement in genome research.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

UK APPROVES FIRST PRIVATELY FUNDED HOSPITAL PROJECT

LONDON - A privately financed #35 million ($39.7 million) scheme to
reconstruct hospitals in England's Buckinghamshire region has been
approved by the government. The scheme is the first in which a
substantial sum of private finance is to be used to design and rebuild
hospital facilities for the publicly-funded National Health Service
(NHS).

The Secretary of State for Health, Stephen Dorrell, said that the
project marked a turning point for the government's private finance
initiative (PFI) in the health service. He added that he was strongly
in favour of testing public and private sector solutions alongside each
other and adopting the approach which offered the best value.

                  NHS capital spending: England
                        (# million)

                    Revised              Provisional
Plan      Plan       Plans                          1995-1996 1995-1996
 1997-1998    1998-1999

Hospital and Comm-
unity Health Svcs

Government spending 1,806     1,543      1,495        1,430
% real growth           -     -16.9        5.4         -6.5
Receipts from land
 sales                250       310        300          290
% real growth                  20.7       -5.6         -5.5
PFI investment         47       165        200          300
% real growth                   142       18.3         46.7
Other NHS
Capital spending       17        20         17           17
% real growth                  17.8      -19.9         -2.2
Total               2,120     2,038      2,012        1,036
% real growth                  -6.5       -3.7         -1.0

The contract, which involves a substantial amount of rebuilding at two
of the South Buckinghamshire NHS Trust's hospitals has been awarded to
the Healthcare Group consortium, comprising builders Taylor Woodrow,
the motorway service station operator Granada and financiers, Nexus.
Work is expected to begin in April and take two years to complete. Mr
Dorrell said all clinical services would continue to be provided by the
NHS, but maintenance would be the responsibility of the private sector
partner.

The project is expected to be the first of many large-scale private
sector schemes in the NHS, with the government expecting private
investment to rise from #47 million this year to #165 million in the
1996-1997 year. Even with such a large increase in private investment,
however, the total amount of funding available for capital projects is
still expected to fall.

Mr Dorrell has announced that government expenditure on capital
projects for hospitals and community health services is to be cut by
almost 17 per cent next year, to #1.54 billion. This is expected to
result in a fall of 6.5 per cent in overall funding available for
capital development in real terms in the 1996-1997 year, and a drop of
3.7 per cent in the following year.

The NHS Executive has so far approved 44 PFI schemes, with a total
capital value of around #166 million.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SWISS INSURANCE COMPANIES TAKE AIM AT PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT

GENEVA - A group of leading Swiss insurance companies has declared war
on the high cost of health treatment in the country by introducing a
"carrot and stick" approach to get patients to switch to cheaper
private hospitals and clinics. The 13 companies belonging to COSAMA
(Conference suisse des assurers maladie et accidents) have fired the
first broadside in the Canton (state) of Vaud - where they control half
the health insurance market.

The insurance companies have drawn up a list of 11 hospitals and
clinics and told clients their premiums will be cut by 10 per cent if
they go to these places for treatment. If they choose other
establishments, there will be a surcharge of 40 per cent on their
premiums. Moreover, COSAMA has told the 11 hospitals and clinics to cut
their tariffs by 10 per cent, arguing they will gain from getting more
patients at their competitors' expense.

The move, however, has run into difficulties. All the establishments
belong to the GHRV (Groupement des hopitaux regionaux vaudois) and AVCP
(Association vaudoise des cliniques privees), which have urged its
members to stick together; otherwise some hospitals and clinics will be
forced to close. So far, however, only one of the clinics on the
approved list has agreed to COSAMA's proposal. While it remains to be
seen who will win this battle, COSAMA has said it plans to extend the
new policy to other cantons in Switzerland.

This action comes when the face of healthcare in Switzerland has been
transformed radically. From 1 January 1996, government subsidies to
insurance companies to hold down premiums were scrapped. One immediate
result has been a huge rise in insurance costs for most families.

The companies claim that cutting the subsidies has cost them SFr1.9
million ($1.54 million). In addition, they are now obliged to cover the
cost of treatment for a variety of illnesses in the public sector,
which they claim will cost another SFr1.7 billion. As a result,
premiums are increasing typically by 40, even 50 per cent.

Lower-income groups will receive subsidies towards their health
insurance costs, but the responsibility for deciding who is eligible
has been given to the cantons. There are, however, considerable
differences in the way the cantons are making their selection. This has
led to demands in parliament for a SFr500 million handout to families.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FRENCH HEALTH INSURERS TO STUDY COST CONTAINMENT

PARIS - The state-owned life insurer, Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance,
is creating a unit to study cost containment. The unit will analyse
costs and treatments to provide the insurer with typical pictures of
various diseases and conditions. The intention is to identify which
treatments are useful and which are not, with a view to offering
clients cheaper but effective cover.

The unit will also seek to improve cost effectiveness by verifying the
efficacy of treatments and seeking the post-treatment opinion of
patients. The unit is expected to develop methods that will save more
money than they cost.

According to the insurer, the legal requirements for data protection
and medical secrecy are to be respected by the unit. The study may face
resistance from patients who are accustomed to spending for and seeking
healthcare as they like. Moreover, physicians may not be pleased to see
their income constrained.

The company's director of collective insurances, Patrick Warin, noted
that health insurers were interested in containing healthcare costs,
although those that provide supplementary insurance do not pay much
more than 10 per cent of the total healthcare bill. Because these
insurers pay the portion of the health bill not covered by the
government, they are often accused of encouraging overspending. He
added that insurers also need to contain costs, because government
decisions about reimbursement levels directly affect their business.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BURE ACQUIRES PREVIA

STOCKHOLM - The Scandinavian venture capital company Bure Ab has
cemented its position as Sweden's largest private healthcare services
provider in the aftermath of its $25 million acquisition of Previa, in
a deal finalised on 14 December. Bure will, following the take-over,
merge Previa with the group's other healthcare subsidiary Bygghalsan to
create a new company with annual revenues in excess of $94 million and
with a 20 per cent share of the rapidly expanding market for private
healthcare services in Sweden.

The new company, Previa Halsan Ab, will specialise in providing pre-
employment checks, routine and call-out medical services to companies
in the private and state sectors. Bure has drafted a five-year
development plan for Previa Halsan under which the company is expected
to increase revenues, through a process of mergers and acquisitions, to
$160 million within three years.

A similar growth pattern is planned for Bure's General Healthcare
Division, based in Stockholm, and forecast to double its annual
revenues to $806 million over the next three years.

In November, Bure acquired a 70 per cent stake in Malardiagnostik Ab, a
company engaged in the operation of private healthcare clinics. Shares
were acquired from the Svrmland District Council. As part of the deal,
Bure bought a minority 40 per cent holding in the Svrmland District
Council owned healthcare centre company Sormlandshalsan. The acquired
assets have annual revenues of $20 million.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FRENCH ACQUISITION OF AUSTRALIAN HOSPITAL COMPANY

CANBERRA - The Australian Treasurer and the country's Foreign
Investment Review Board have approved the purchase by the French
conglomerate, Compagnie des Eaux, of a major Australian hospital group.
Australian Medical Enterprises owns nine hospitals in New South Wales
and Western Australia and 60 per cent of private pathology services in
the latter state.

Some disquiet has arisen among some Australian parliamentarians over
whether it is in the national interest that a foreign company, and
particularly a French company, should acquire such a large share of the
Australian health industry. The government was unmoved by these
arguments and rejected the suggestion that approval of the French
purchase had weakened its stand on the French nuclear tests in the
Pacific.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

ARJO UNDER THE SPOTLIGHT

STOCKHOLM - Deliberate errors made in the accounts of the American
subsidiary of Swedish healthcare and medical equipment group Arjo, has
led to the firing of the US company's chief executive-officer, chief
financial officer and senior sales personnel. According to an audit
conducted by Arjo in November, the sales figures for Arjo Inc, based in
Morton Grove, Illinois, were "grossly inflated" by over $6 million,
approximating around 10 per cent of the company's total annual
revenues.

The audit found that incorrectly invoiced goods were in actuality
relocated to a leasing company owned by Arjo Inc. The discovery has
caused Arjo to revise its profit estimate for 1994. In August, the
company projected earnings for that year of around $32.5 million. Arjo
is estimating revenues of $240 million in 1995.

"The problems encountered with Arjo Inc will mean that we must invest
$30 million to restructure the company and get it working the way we
want. This cost will wipe out our profit result for 1995. What we are
doing is cleaning up in Arjo. Order and morality are badly needed in
the company," said Carl Bennet, chief executive officer of Gettinge Ab,
which acquired Arjo in a deal worth $130 million last November.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

CANADIAN RED CROSS UNVEILS SELF-SUFFICIENT BLOOD STRATEGY

VANCOUVER - The Canadian Red Cross has unveiled a strategy to make
Canada self-sufficient in blood plasma in l996. A new state- of-the-art
blood collection facility in Thunder Bay Ontario will open as soon as
it receives approval from US Food and Drug Administration and the
Canadian Bureau of Biologics.

The facility is a plasmapheresis centre, where blood is collected from
donors and centrifuged at bedside into red corpuscle and plasma
components. The corpuscles are returned to the donor. The process takes
twice as long as the normal 30 minutes for whole blood donation, but
the donor can donate as often as once a week.

The Red Cross plans seven such centres across the country, each
enrolling 4,000 donors committed to donate 15 times a year. When the
system is operational, by the end of l998, it will produce over 400,000
litres of plasma annually, the total Canadian requirement.

Previously, the Red Cross did plasmapheresis as well as whole blood
collection at its l7 regional centres. But in July l995, the FDA
blocked shipments of "source" plasma collected via plasmapheresis
because of failure to meet US standards. Thus, the Red Cross had to
increase its use of recovered plasma, from whole blood, which is
shipped to the US to meet the terms of an agreement the Red Cross
signed with Bayer Corp 10 years ago.

The Canadian Red Cross is building, in partnership with Bayer, a C$300
million ($217.4 million) plasma fractionation plant at Bedford, Nova
Scotia, with Red Cross money and Bayer technology. The joint (non-
profit) venture is named the Canadian Red Cross Fractionation Corp
(FraCo). Bayer has the right to purchase all surplus fractions and all
of Factor VIII. This clotting factor, when purified, is valuable, worth
about C$1.5 million per gram.

Critics wonder, in light of these facts, whether the traditional
Canadian system of free donation of blood can continue to provide the
volume needed.

Melvyn Green, counsel for the Krever Commission which is inquiring into
blood collection, asked, "Is there not a risk that volunteer donors in
Canada will be deterred from donating by the knowledge that their Gift
of Life is in fact enriching a for-profit American corporation?" Steven
Vick, project director for FraCo, admits that if the collection centres
do not get sufficient volunteer donors, payment for plasma donations
will have to be considered.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

EU'S 4TH FRAMEWORK HEALTH TELEMATICS PROJECTS SET TO BEGIN

BRUSSELS - This month work begins by the winners of the European
Union's Fourth Framework research and development programme. Some 70
health sector projects have been selected by the European Commission's
Telematics Applications Programme. Competition was very intense as 235
proposals were received in response to the call for proposals which
first appeared in December, 1994.

Mr Jean-Claude Healy, head of the Health Telematics Unit within the
Telecommunications, Information Market and Exploitation of Research
(Directorate-General XIII) told IHN that there was an increase in the
number of proposals received, the number of partners involved and the
quality of the work offered. The amount of money requested was 10 times
the Ecu77 million ($102.8 million) awarded during this first round.
Although the winning proposals were known by the end of July 1995,
negotiations, which always involved reducing budget requests, were not
completed until the end of October.

The Fourth Framework, 1994-1998, research and development (R&D)
programme will provide Ecu12.3 billion for R&D projects in 13 areas of
interest. The telematics area commanded Ecu843 million, of which
approximately Ecu135 million  was for the healthcare sector. Mr Healy
stressed that the Fourth Framework was not an extension of the Third
Framework's Advanced Informatics in Medicine (AIM) programme which ran
from 1991-1994. The new work emphasises users, not technology. Projects
are to identify user needs and to deploy and implement technology to
meet those needs. In addition, this Framework is to support projects
for all Europe, including Eastern countries.
The selected projects fall into the following seven broad categories:

* Multimedia patient records
* Telematics assisted co-operative work for health professionals
* Departmental systems and advanced imaging
* Integration platforms, continuity of care, regional networks
* Telediagnostic, teleconsultation and emergency telemedicine
* Information for citizens and health sector professionals
* Cohesion, dissemination and exploitation of results, education

* For the complete list of projects and the co-ordinator's name,
address, telephone, fax and E-Mail address, contact: Michel Richonnier,
director Telematics Applications, European Commission Directorate
General XIII, Rue de la Loi 200, Office BU 29 3/47 B1049 Brussels,
Belgium.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

HEALTH MINISTER OUTLINES POLICY ON IT IN HEALTHCARE

AMSTERDAM - The Dutch minister of health, Dr Else Borst-Eilers, during
the recent AMICE conference, outlined the government's policy on
information technology (IT) in healthcare for the coming years. The
policy has one strategic objective - the integrated electronic patient
record. The objective is not only to have every patient record of a
specific care-giver computerised, but to merge all care related data
concerning one individual.

The Dutch hope to build on the success it has achieved within the
primary healthcare sector, where 80 per cent of general practitioners
(GPs) use automation and 50 per cent use an electronic patient record.
Hospitals and specialists, however, need to improve their use of
information technology. While all hospitals have some computers,
especially in their pharmacies and laboratories, most run legacy
systems that obstruct full integration.

The strategy is not to develop a huge data repository, but rather to
use distributed database technology. Chip cards for both patients and
doctors are to be employed as keys to access data, while enhancing data
protection and privacy. The Dutch IT policy is based on four pillars:

* Integrated electronic care records that use common architecture and
open infrastructures, that will lead to business process redesign and
improved care processes.

* Equip areas with sparse computerisation and educate managers and
health professionals in computer use.

* Assurance of data security, privacy, integrity and reliability, as
well as standards, to promote interconnectivity while enhancing the
responsibilities of trusted users.

* International co-operation and sharing of information technology
methods and tools.

The government believes that improvement in efficiencies will result
from using IT smartly, without reducing current standards of quality.
Many believe that both quality and efficiency can and will increase. It
is expected that hospitals will be seeking to cut costs and will see
integrated computerisation as a means to do so. Hospital administrators
are aware that they must become more efficient in order to survive
reimbursement cuts and price caps on healthcare bills.

The government will provide some research and development money for
work on the integrated patient file and seed money for improving
standards and data protection. In addition, several Dutch projects are
being funded by the European Commission's telematics programme.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

DIABCARD TRIAL IN BARCELONA

BARCELONA - A pilot programme to test the viability of a new data card
for diabetics has been initiated at Barcelona's Sant Pau Hospital. Some
100 patients are participating in the programme, one of the first of
its kind in Europe.

The card, called the Diabcard, contains a chip capable of storing
relevant information pertaining to a patient's condition, such as
clinical history, current medications, diet restrictions, etc. The
data's confidentiality is protected by an access code known only to the
patient, a family member and the doctor. Wide use of the card by
diabetics, who number 2.5 million in Spain, would not only benefit
particular patients and hospitals, but also would permit a detailed
study of the demographics of the condition as well as the comparative
costs of treatment.

The pilot test is part of the larger Diabcard project sponsored by the
Telematics Applications programme of the European Commission. Phase I
of the project began in 1992 and it has won continued funding in the
new Fourth Framework. The Diabcard chip card uses an open architecture,
making it easily integrated into existing information systems and
networking environments. The chip can store up to eight kilobytes of
data.

* Information about the Diabcard project can be obtained from the co-
ordinator, Rolf Engelbrecht, GSF-Forschunszentrum, MEDIS-Institut,
Neuherberg, Ingolstaedter Landstr. 1, D-85764 Oberschleissheim,
Germany.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

INFOMIX - A SUCCESS IN HUNGARIAN HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS

BUDAPEST - Infomix, the software developer company, represents one of
the rare success stories in Hungarian healthcare informatics. The
company started around 1988, as part of the since dissolved Microsystem
Corp, and was among the first to develop a user oriented application
for primary care. In 1995, the company had about 2,800 surgeries as
registered users and sales of over Ft120 million, ($886,132) a 20 per
cent growth from 1994.

Primary care practices in Hungary became equipped with computers,
almost exclusively with DOS based PCs, in the early 1990s. Although
more than 30 per cent of the about 6,000 physicians' offices own some
sort of hardware (mostly outdated 286 or 386 based clones), only a
portion of the doctors use the machines in everyday practice. The
number of those who use computers has been steadily growing as software
became more user friendly and primary care practices became privatised.

Automation in Hungary started in the late 1980s, when all practices
were part of the local government owned and run healthcare service. In
a series of contracts, PC clones were bought and set up in primary care
surgeries. The Ministry of Welfare agreed to pay for developing
software application packages for patient documentation and capitation
based billing for the insurance fund. Although the software was
provided free of charge to primary care physicians, the computer
programmes were of little use. Designed by ministry clerks, without
input and feedback from the physicians, the three programmes developed
were of little use.

At the same time, several profit-oriented software and hardware
companies began to develop application packages that fit end user
needs. More than 10 different programmes were on the market in the
early 1990s. A real market situation resulted, with different companies
offering systems that varied from dBase applications to sophisticated
Windows based programmes. The successful systems offered maintenance
and support services with their software.

Infomix was among the early successful companies. The first version of
its user friendly software was launched in 1988 and was bought by 65
surgeries, each with multiple users. (In Hungary, it is typical that
general practitioners share their surgeries, working in multiple
shifts). An updated version was offered in 1990 and by 1993, the number
of running applications grew to 890. The 2,800 licensed users in 1995
are served by a central developer and a maintenance group of full-time
employees. Infomix has four regional centres in Hungary and a 22-unit
dealer web that helps with distribution.

The company has followed its success in primary care with the
development of applications for polyclinics where 80 sites are equipped
and for dental surgeries with 150 users. Infomix has developed a few
hospital applications and is presently working on software for
occupational health specialists and other providers. The hospital
market is one in which the company expects keen competition, as that is
expected to represent the next phase of computerisation within the
health sector.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

ALBERTA TESTS SMART CARD

VANCOUVER - A panel of doctors, health administrators and government
officials is completing work on a pilot project to provide "smart"
medical record cards to residents of one of the Alberta's 17 healthcare
regions some time this spring.

The card would provide healthcare professionals instant access to a
patient's medical history. "I feel [the project] is absolutely critical
from a business perspective," said Denis Herard, chairman of the Health
Information Network Committee, as the panel is known.

If adopted province-wide, Herard says, the card could cut 5 per cent
from the province's C$3.5 billion ($2.5 billion) a year of healthcare
charges. Duplication of expensive tests would be minimised, and use of
multiple prescriptions for the same illness prevented.

However, Herard admits the card poses some problems, especially in
protection of patient privacy. "Do you want to have 2.5 million health
histories walking around the province in wallets and purses?" he asked.
Herard favours a pass-key type of card, which would allow healthcare
professionals to access patient records in a central computer system.

However, some members of the panel prefer a card with the patient
records directly encoded on it. Brian Edy, director of the Alberta
Civil Liberties Association says safeguards must be imposed in areas
such as histories of Aids tests and psychiatric treatment, to prevent
abuse of the system. The government says the use of "firewall"
technology can prevent unauthorised personnel from accessing such
sensitive information. The pilot project has already been approved by
the provincial health department.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE MAKES PROFIT FROM PRIVATE PATIENTS

LONDON - Britain's publicly-funded National Health Service (NHS) is
making a healthy profit from treating private patients, a study by a
firm of consultants has found. The study Are Pay-Beds Profitable? by
National Economic Research Associates, found that the NHS was making a
profit of around #290 ($460) for each private patient treated. The
authors noted that even if hidden costs, such as the cost of training
doctors and nurses and unplanned admissions to intensive care were
taken into account, the hospitals would still make a profit of at least
#235 per patient.

National Economic Research Associates surveyed six NHS hospitals, which
together account for more than 10 per cent of dedicated private patient
beds in the NHS. The issue of whether the NHS makes money from private
patients has long been a controversial one, with the owners of
independent hospitals arguing that NHS hospitals are competing unfairly
by using NHS funds to subsidise private patient care. The authors of
the report said that because NHS hospitals now had a 14 per cent share
of the private patient market, it was important to find out whether or
not their private patients were helping to reduce funding problems in
the NHS.

David Cavers, the managing director of medical insurers Norwich
Healthcare, commented that the NHS was beginning to represent real
competition for private operators. "[Pay-beds at NHS Trust hospitals]
are generally competitively priced so that from an insured customer's
point of view, the premium saving which this can represent can be very
significant."

* A summary of the report Are Pay-Beds Profitable? is available from
Norwich Union Healthcare, Chilworth House, Templars Way, Eastleigh SO5
3RY, UK. Price: Free



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

UK ANNOUNCES SPENDING ON HEALTH

LONDON - The government has announced that current spending on health
in England will rise #1.3 billion to #31.49 billion ($50 billion) in
the 1996-1997 year. The increase amounts to 1.6 per cent, or #500
million in real terms. Current spending on hospital and community
health services is to rise by 1.1 per cent in real terms, to #23.18
billion.

The Secretary of State for Health, Stephen Dorrell, said four areas
would receive priority allocations next year: primary care, research
and development, education and training, and mental health services.
Primary care allocations will increase by #9 million or 1.25 per cent
to support spending by family doctors on practice staff and computing
costs. In addition, almost #39 million will go to support the provision
of out-of-hours services by general practitioners. Mr Dorrell said
spending on family health services as a whole will increase by 3.9 per
cent in real terms.

                  Current NHS spending: England
                          (# million)

Estimated                         Planned
1995-1996           1996-1997     1997-1998   1998-1999

30,151              31,491        32,396      33,251

Funding for research and development will increase by #27 million, to
#436 million, to ensure that better healthcare solutions will be
"widely disseminated and implemented". Support for education and
training in the National Health Services (NHS) will rise by #68
million, to #1,767 million. Mr Dorrell said that a new "mental health
fund" had also been set up to meet urgent priorities in the development
of mental health services.

The government has told health authorities that they must make
efficiency savings of three per cent, equivalent to #650 million, in
the 1996-1997 year. Mr Dorrell said this target includes planned
savings of #130 million on management and administration costs at NHS
trusts and health authorities.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

STUDY SHOWS UK HOSPITAL INTENSIVE CARE NEEDS IMPROVEMENT

LONDON - Britain must put more resources into improving standards of
intensive care, according to David Bennett, author of a study on ICU
services in the South West Thames Regional Health Authority. Bennett, a
reader in intensive care medicine at St George's Hospital Medical
School in London, looked at the outcomes for more than 10,000 patients
who were admitted to intensive care beds in the region.

Dr Bennett claims that the state of intensive care in the UK compares
unfavourably to other European countries and the US. He says that an
average of only one to two per cent of beds in Britain were for
patients in intensive care, compared to between four and six per cent
of beds in most other western countries. The UK spends only #5.90
($9.3) per head of population on intensive care compared to #54 ($85)
per capita spent by France.

Higher mortality rates

The two year study, Bennett says, showed that patients admitted to
intensive care beds in the UK had higher mortality rates than those in
the US.
The US spends an estimated #144 per head of population on intensive
care. Dr Bennett comments: "If you go to hospitals in the United
States, it's very obvious [that they spend more]. The facilities are
better and there are more of them. You don't have to do a scientific
study to come to that conclusion."

Bennett claims that even if the NHS were to increase the number of beds
available for seriously ill patients, there would still be too few
staff with the training to care for them. He argues that a properly
organised training programme and a formal career structure for
intensivists must be developed in order to encourage more doctors into
the speciality.

Not all seriously ill patients require intensive care, and Bennett
proposes an intermediate level hospital unit. He believes that National
Health Service hospitals should introduce high dependency units for
patients who require more care than they would receive in a general
ward, but less than that provided in intensive care. "We know that
we're looking after a substantial number of patients in intensive care
who could be looked after somewhere else; if somewhere else existed."



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

IRELAND TO PROMOTE EXPORT SALES

DUBLIN - Pharmaceuticals and healthcare are among the 10 sectors slated
for growth by the new programme, "Opportunity Europe". Export sales
from Irish companies to Europe are expected to increase 17 per cent to
#1.45 billion ($230.2 billion) in 1996. If Irish companies take
advantage of the programme, Board Trachtala believes that Irish exports
could reach #3.2 billion in Europe by the year 2001.

Enda Kenny, minister for tourism and trade, said that Irish companies
have turned in an excellent performance on European markets in 1995,
#1.25 billion, up 17 percent from 1994. "With continued growth forecast
in all major European economies in 1996, Board Trachtala will be
spending a record #10 million, its biggest ever promotional campaign in
European markets to assist Irish companies to win more business," said
Mr Kenny.

The Opportunity Europe programme includes: providing financial
incentives for Irish companies to establish European sales offices;
undertaking business lead projects to identify new business areas;
sponsoring more than 40 trade and study missions and sales-support
programmes; flying 600 key European buyers to Ireland; and holding
about 29 regional seminars and workshops in Ireland to brief companies
on the European potential.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FRENCH HOSPITAL REFORM REMAINS TO BE DETERMINED

PARIS - The French government's plans for reforming the healthcare
system have not yet fallen victim either to the social unrest that
swept the country in late November and early December or to the
opposition of certain elements of the medical profession. While the
government was forced to back down on a number of its proposals for
curtailing the privileges and fringe benefits enjoyed by many public
sector employees, prime minister Alain Juppe is pressing ahead to
reform the administration and financing of the social security system
in general and the health system in particular.

Hospital reform is currently receiving attention. To advise the
government on the best ways and means of streamlining the hospital
sector, an ad hoc Hospital Reform Commission was set up in June, which
submitted an interim report in September and its final report at the
end of November. The Commission proposals revolve around four main
principles: regionalisation of public supervision and funding of
hospitals; evaluation of hospital services (to maintain the most
efficient and eliminate the least cost-effective); setting of
objectives embodied in contracts negotiated between regional agencies
and individual establishments; and more effective co-ordination between
public and private hospitals.

A specific criticism of the proposals as presently conceived is that
they neither address the problems of the imbalance in funding among
hospitals nor the regional variations in both funding and the provision
of services. The oversupply of hospital facilities might be curtailed
to some extent by the elimination of the least efficient services, but
there are no specific measures for eliminating inefficiencies, such as
overstaffing or excessive hospital stays.

The fact is that some hospitals perform the same services as others
with only one-quarter or one-third the number of staff, or keep
patients in hospital after operations only half the time that others do
without any loss of quality.

While most doctors' and healthcare professionals' unions support these
proposed reforms, other organisations are violently opposed to them.
Moreover, it is clear that the government has no intention of simply
accepting all the Commission's recommendations; instead, it is treating
its report essentially as a discussion document.

Past mistakes

Ministers have apparently learned from past mistakes and are now
seeking to secure a consensus amongst hospital doctors and staff for an
agreed programme of reform, aware that it will only work if it has the
support and co-operation of those who will have to put it into
practice. Herve Gaymard, the health minister, started negotiating with
representatives of hospital doctors and staff in December, intimating
from the outset that some of the Commission's proposals would not be
implemented, although it is not clear which changes the government
thinks essential and which it regards as negotiable.

This softening of the government's position was greeted with some
satisfaction by hospital doctors' organisations, which think the
introduction of a system of evaluation and certification of hospital
services will result in the break-up of establishments. They have
called on the government to reject the Commission's proposals and
abandon plans for hospital reform altogether.

Hospital doctors are not the only critics of reform; other hospital
staff are also concerned, since there could be adverse consequences on
employment as a result of the closure of some services and
establishments.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FRANCE SUPPORTS AIDS CAMPAIGN

PARIS - The French government will be spending well over FFr5 billion
($982.3 million) on fighting Aids in 1996, of which hospital care for
Aids patients will absorb some FFr4.2 billion. State spending on
research will top FFr500 million for the first time this year, while
FFr448 million has been allocated to a nation-wide Aids prevention and
support programme (up from FFr386 million in 1995).

Prevention remains the overriding priority of the government and will
absorb FFr264.2 million (59 per cent) of its FFr448-million campaign
budget this year, 14.5 per cent more than in 1995. The other components
of the government programme are providing home care support (FFr38.4
million), reducing risks for drug addicts (FFr50 million) and expanding
the network of free and anonymous HIV testing centres (FFr20.6
million). Nearly half of public funding for Aids research in 1996
(FFr231 million) is earmarked for the National Aids Research Agency,
while the rest will go to a variety of public and private
establishments.

The cost of hospital care for HIV-infected people amounted to FFr3.93
billion in 1995 and is expected to amount to FFr4.2 billion in 1996.
That sum includes direct credits advanced to hospitals to finance the
installation and operation of special facilities, services and
medicines for Aids patients. The government had allocated total credits
of just over FFr3 billion in 1995. A further FFr240 million is being
made available in 1996 specifically to pay for biological testing of
the "viral load" of Aids patients, which helps doctors track and
predict the development of the HIV virus.

An estimated 28,000-30,000 people have died of Aids in France to date,
and there are currently some 16,000-17,500 people suffering from the
disease. Altogether, 110,000 people are believed to be HIV-positive in
France, of which around 63,500 receive some form of medical care,
55,000 of them as in-patients or out-patients of hospitals and clinics.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FRANCE INCREASES PACE OF CHANGE

PARIS - Having survived the wave of strikes in December, French prime
minister Alain Juppe is forcing the pace of legislation to bring health
and social spending into line.

His government has already drafted the first two orders designed to
control costs and boost revenues for the system. These were sent to
interested parties - such as medical unions and state health and social
security funds - with only a few days to submit comments before an 8
January deadline. The orders will be submitted to the president and are
expected to be approved by the Cabinet on the 17th or the 24th January.
The legislation will be backdated to 1 January.

One of the orders is designed to turn the social security regime around
from a deficit of FFr64.5 billion ($12.9 billion) in 1994 to a surplus
of FFr11.7 billion ($2.34 billion) by 1997. Family allowances will be
frozen. In addition, doctors' fees in 1996 and 1997 will be set under a
general regime negotiated by the doctors' unions and the health funds.
Such actions are expected to save as much as FFr1 billion.

At the same time, a decree published on 21 December has abolished some
of the privileges of the doctors operating in "sector 1" (where fees
are set). Until now a part of their social security contributions were
borne by the system. Making the physicians pay more should raise some
FFr500 million.

Opposition

These measures naturally face the opposition of the doctor's unions,
although a significant number of doctors do not want to take on the
government over its reforms. Social affairs minister Jacques Barrot met
with the leaders of the four largest doctors' associations last week to
discuss spending limits and reimbursement issues, hoping to reach a
consensus.

Mr Juppe's target for this year is to let health spending for private
medical practices, outside hospitals, rise by 2.1 per cent. But since
the spending last year rose by 7 per cent, instead of the agreed upon
3.3 per cent, this year's increase starts from a fairly high base.

Mr Juppe's plan also envisages making the pharmaceutical industry pay
FFr2.5 billion to the social security system. Quite how this might be
done has not been settled yet, but it is probable that companies will
pay on three counts. Firstly, the tax on their promotion expenses will
rise to 14 per cent from 9 per cent. Secondly, there will be a charge
based on the increase in sales in France; this will take into account
those companies that contained their costs. Finally, there will be a
charge of up to 1.5 per cent of turnover. Smallest companies may be
relieved of payment requirements.

The second government order concerns the new tax RDS (Remboursement de
la dette sociale), which is to be levied at a rate of 0.5 per cent on
all income, including most savings income and capital gains. It is
estimated that this tax will raise FFr25 billion a year. It is intended
to raise the revenue needed to erase France's social security deficit.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

EUROPEAN HEALTH MINISTERS SIGNAL TOUGHER ACTION ON ALCOHOL

PARIS - Health ministers from 50 European countries have signalled
tougher action against the drinks industry by adopting a new European
Charter on Alcohol. The Charter, adopted at a ministerial conference
organised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Paris in mid-
December, is not mandatory on governments, and it remains to be seen
what many of them will do to implement it. But there is no doubt it
will put the alcohol industry under further pressure and will place
more stringent restrictions in Europe's market.

The document calls on WHO's European member states to draw up
comprehensive alcohol policies and to implement programmes such as
influencing price through taxation, controlling advertising and
stopping all ads aimed at young people.

The alcohol industry was furious at the way the conference was handled,
claiming it was deliberately stage managed in favour of groups calling
for new anti-alcohol measures. Only the Amsterdam Group, a coalition of
leading European drinks producers, was allowed to attend, as observers.
Requests from other industry organisations to sit in were flatly
rejected by WHO.

A WHO official, Claes Goos, strongly denied that either WHO or the
Charter were "neo-prohibitionist" and that WHO was aiming for the
"complete elimination of alcohol" in Europe. WHO officials believe that
the Charter will give a significant political boost to the European
Alcohol Action Plan, approved in 1992, which aims to achieve a 25 per
cent cut in alcohol consumption across Europe between 1980 and the year
2000.

There were signs at the conference that some governments are unlikely
to act quickly, despite endorsing the Charter. Mr John Bowis, the UK
Under-Secretary for Health said: "for most people, some [drink] is
better than none". He was heckled by delegates when he also said: "If
you pretend that alcohol is bad, people won't accept the message of
moderate drinking". The Italian and German representatives also voiced
concern over parts of the Charter.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "23"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

GERMANY AHEAD OF SCHEDULE ON TRACKING DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS

FRANKFURT - Although pharmacists were given until the new year to
report medications and dosages ordered by individual physicians, they
were doing so by the end of October, according to Dr Otfried P
Schaefer, Hessen Physicians Association (Kassenaerztliche vereinigung).


These reports go to the insurance funds where each doctor's prescribing
pattern is examined in relationship to those with similar specialties.
If it is believed that a physician is over-prescribing, then the state
physicians association is alerted. The associations send warnings to
those doctors who are ordering over 25 per cent more than their
colleagues. If corrective action is not taken, the doctor will have to
pay for the excess drugs ordered.

The smart cards that have been given to all Germans covered by
statutory insurance funds and the readers given to all physicians have
facilitated the reporting requirement. Moreover, pharmacists are given
a small stipend for each bill sent (less than 1 cent). Private
insurance companies will also distribute smart cards to their customers
during 1996.

The statutory insurance companies paid a total of DM410 million ($282
million) for developing the smart card project, issuing 72 million
insurance memory chip cards to the insured and granting 160,000 doctors
and dentists money to purchase card readers. The government expects
that these new cards and the requirement that physician associations
bill the insurance companies electronically will save DM2-3 billion a
year. However, Dr Schaefer claims that he is not aware of any cost-
benefit analysis that has taken place.

The smart card project is also credited with encouraging doctors to
computerise their offices. At the end of September 1995, over 60 per
cent of all doctors in Germany were using computers for administrative
work and for medical documentation. In some regions, close to 80 per
cent of doctors have computers. The use of computers is expected to
accelerate, as next month doctors will be required to place ICD-10
diagnostic codes on all bills.

Physicians are aware that such information will permit reviews of their
treatment and prescribing patterns. While they are not pleased by this
prospect, they are further angered that they are expected to foot the
entire bill so that such data are provided. Dr Schaefer told IHN that
over DM700 million for computerisation has been absorbed by the doctors
and another DM700 million will be spent before everyone is on-line.

Efforts are being made to ensure that there is interoperability between
computers and the software doctors use. However, Dr Schaefer notes that
the physicians have not been offered discounts or government allowances
to encourage them to follow the standards that have been worked about
by the insurance companies and the physicians associations. Rather, the
doctors are being told the standards that they must follow in billing
and reporting and compliance is expected.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "24"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

TRANSPLANT LAW FOR GERMANY AT LAST?

BONN -- There is a good chance that in 1996 Germany will finally have a
law dealing with organ transplants. The health ministry has prepared a
proposal that is supported by the Christian Democrat/Liberal majority,
as well as most members of the Social Democrat opposition. The German
states have also been involved and are expected to give their consent
to the proposed law.

Germany is one of the few countries in Europe without a transplant law.
Some 15 years ago, an unsuccessful attempt was made to introduce an
"opting out" bill, which implied that everyone is an organ donor unless
he/she specifically refuses to be one. Thereafter, the transplant
community derived a strict code of rules that included an "opting in"
solution. The wishes of the deceased were to be followed, or if not
apparent (for example, by a donor card), decisions by relatives.

Passionate public discussion

Although the proposed law follows current practise, it has stirred up
passionate public discussion and a great deal of media attention,
especially about brain death as a secure sign of death. A group of
theologists and doctors claim that brain dead patients are not dead,
but are dying. They feel that the process of dying must not be
disturbed by organ procurement, unless the dead person himself had
given consent to organ donation after brain death. Relatives should not
be able to give consent by proxy.

The Green Party has proposed a law that contains this argument. At a
public hearing last summer in Bonn, however, transplant surgeons made
it clear that transplantation would be entirely given up, unless brain
death was legally acknowledged as death.

Currently there are about 2,000 kidney transplants performed per year
in Germany, with 9,000 patients on the waiting list. About 500 livers
and 500 hearts are transplanted each year, but twice as many are needed
to help all waiting patients. For the past 26 years, Germany has
exchanged organs via Eurotransplant in Leiden (Netherlands) with
Austria, Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg.

It was hoped that a transplant law would provide legal security to
those involved in organ donation and serve to promote organ
transplantation. So far the proposed legislation has proven to be
counterproductive. Public discussion and the apprehensive attitudes of
doctors and nurses have contributed to a decline in the number of organ
donations in 1994. Figures for 1995 are to be published soon and are
expected to be slightly higher.

In January, the transplant law will be introduced into the Bonn
parliament, where further hearings and discussion will be held. It has
been agreed that party discipline will not be maintained and that each
member can follow his/her own conscience in respect to the critical
points of brain death and consent by proxy.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "25"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

ITALY DRASTICALLY CUTS 1996 SPENDING FOR PHARMACEUTICALS

ROME - In a surprise and hotly contested move, the Italian parliament
has passed a law forcing further drastic reductions in state spending
on medicines for 1996. Parliament, while debating the government's 1996
Finance Bill (IHN 6,November 1995, page 1) attached a late amendment
stipulating that, although the government will continue to reimburse
the full cost of medication for life-threatening and chronic illness
through the so-called Class A Medicines and one-half for lesser
ailments (Class B). The payment for both categories will be based on
the most economic medicine available for cures.

Until now, reimbursement covered the varying prices of medicines and
was not pegged to the cheapest drug. The new law also stipulates that
doctors prescribing medicines in the two categories are to inform
patients that government reimbursement will be equivalent to the price
of the most economic medication.

The parliament acted a few days after the Italian government wrote off
the cost overrun of L700 billion ($43.1 million) for subsidised
medicine in 1995. The Finance Bill for 1995 had set a ceiling of L9,000
billion for subsidised medicine, but it was apparent within months that
the cap could not be maintained for the year. The government's self-
imposed limit was also breached in 1994. Despite these overruns, and no
expectation that costs for medicines will be reduced, the government
has retained the L9,000 ceiling for 1996.

Italy's slumping pharmaceutical industry registered a wave of protests.
It claims that all Class A and B medicines that cost more than the
cheapest ones will be forced into Class C, which does not receive any
governmental reimbursement. This may render the drugs no longer
marketable.

Italy's pharmaceutical industry association, Farmindustria, threatened
to pull out of the National Health Service, without specifying how, or
if, it could be achieved.

In a minor compensation, prices of Class A and B medicines are expected
to increase between 2.6 and 5 per cent in 1996. It is also expected
that Class C drugs, which are unregulated by the government, will have
similar increases. The rise will be less than the rate of inflation,
which is around 6 per cent annually.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "26"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

ITALIANS CONSULT TRAVEL AGENTS FIRST WHEN TAKEN ILL

ROME - Increasing numbers of Italians are going abroad, particularly to
neighbouring France, for healthcare services. Unavailability of some
services and perceptions that health services abroad are superior are
reasons given by the estimated thousands who are called "health
refugees" or "health migrants". The numbers give validity to claims
that when some Italians fall seriously ill, they consult not only their
doctors but also their travel agents.

In 1993, the latest official Ministry of Health figures indicate that
the National Health Service (NHS) owed L216 billion ($133 million) to
its EU partners for services rendered to Italian citizens abroad. This
included L204 billion to France, L10 billion to Belgium and L1.2
billion to the UK. The amount for care abroad, however, has ballooned
since then. For example, the 1994 amount has been estimated as L481
billion.

A Ministry of Health study, based on 7,000 authorisations issued
between 1990 and 1993, indicates that some 2,300 persons went abroad
for cancer treatment, 1,500 for transplants, close to 1,000 for
neurological care (including surgery) and 800 for treatments of heart
diseases. The exact number of "health migrants" is not known, but it is
believed to be in the tens of thousands a year, including those who by-
pass the NHS and bear the entire cost.

The consensus is that the "health migrants" are forced to leave Italy
because waiting lists are too long, as adequate services are lacking.
Scarcity of transplant organs is identified as a major problem in
Italy; of some 3,500 needs a year, availability is put at 1,300. In
addition, cardiac by-pass surgery waiting lists are from six to eight
months in Milan, Rome and Naples.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "27"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

AUSTRIAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION OFFERS REFORM PROPOSALS

VIENNA - the Austrian Medical Association (Arztekammer) has issued a
report that passes a devastating judgement on the country's healthcare
programme. The healthcare system is characterised by an overblown
bureaucracy and expensive care, both of which are responsible for the
system's financial crisis.

The association argues that more out-patient care is needed along with
reform of hospital financing. The healthcare programme should only
apply to basic medical care, although persons with high, long-term and
social problems should not be excluded from care. A cap related to
income should be applied and those who earn more than the cap should be
able to choose among health insurers.

Patients, except for the needy, should pay 20 per cent of their
healthcare costs. High risk activities such as those associated with
sports and leisure activities should be insured separately. In general,
local medical care, rather than major healthcare centres, should be
encouraged.

Additionally, the association views healthcare facility administration
as a major problem in need of resolution. For example, Vienna's vast
general hospital (AKH) is operated by both the federal and city
governments instead of having its own administration.

"We doctors have no control, we're not, as the public thinks, the
captains, not even the first officers of the medical flagship AKH. We
don't have the possibility to control the AKH", argues one university
professor.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "28"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

WHO CASH CRISIS DEEPENS

GENEVA - Some World Health Organisation (WHO) programmes are likely to
be transferred from Geneva and more job losses are expected, as the
organisation's cash crisis looks set to worsen this year.

Between 140-150 posts at headquarters were eliminated in 1995 because
of a $54 million shortfall in WHO's two year $842 million regular
budget. Another 50 posts are expected to be cut during 1996, and it is
rumoured that a provisional "hit list" of posts to go has been drawn up
already.

WHO's budget, suffering badly because of problems in getting the US to
pay its contributions, faces further uncertainty and possibly serious
body blows. There are doubts, for example, about whether Russia and
Ukraine, two other big contributors, will pay anything this year.

As well as cutting more posts, WHO officials have also launched an
urgent study into relocating programmes or parts of programmes out of
headquarters to places with a lower cost of living. The effect of this
would be to change WHO radically - into a network, with just a small
kernel of people remaining in Geneva mainly to interact with other UN
agencies.

A full report on WHO's cash crisis will be given to its executive board
this month. Director-general Dr Hiroshi Nakajima is expected to call
for a rethink in the way countries' contributions to WHO are assessed.
At present, 20 contributors provide 80 per cent of its budget. He is
also likely to say that WHO must find new, long-term solutions for
supporting its programmes, including developing new partnerships with
the private sector.

Meanwhile, morale remains low at WHO headquarters, where staff have
been bitterly critical of Dr Nakajima's handling of the crisis.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "29"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

UNAIDS STARTS UP AMID DOUBTS

GENEVA - The international community's latest effort to get to grips
with the global Aids epidemic, UNAids, started up on 1 January amid
doubts about its likely effectiveness or real value. UNAids is a joint
venture among six United Nation (UN) agencies: the World Health
Organisation (WHO); the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation; the UN Children's Fund; the UN Development Programme; the
UN Population Fund; and the World Bank.

Located in Geneva, UNAids replaces WHO's Global Programme on Aids
(GPA), which attracted wide criticism for being over-staffed, wasting
resources and achieving few concrete results. While UNAids will have a
much smaller staff than GPA and most of them will be working outside
Geneva, it will cover essentially the same ground: identifying `best
practice' policies for prevention and care, providing technical support
to national governments, advocacy and co-ordination. It will also have
roughly the same budget as GPA, between $120-$140 million a year.

UNAids will give about 50 per cent less funds to national Aids
programmes than GPA, however. Governments are supposed to make up the
difference, but this is thought doubtful.

Although Dr Peter Piot was appointed the programme's executive director
in December 1994, staff have not yet been recruited. GPA staff, due to
lose their jobs with its shut down, have been switched temporarily to
the UNAid's payroll. There is concern about relations between UNAids
and WHO, which is keeping a Division on Aids and Sexually Transmitted
Diseases.

Sceptics also question whether the new programme is really needed,
especially in light of WHO's alleged failures. They point out that Dr
Piot has admitted that "there is an agenda here of UN reform that's
also behind this programme. We will show that it is possible in the UN
with a lean operation to be efficient and effective". Critics claim
that UNAids is an exercise in trying to show the UN in a better light.

Supporters, however, argue that the UN and its agencies cannot wash
their hands of the Aids problem. They say that UNAids will bring some
urgently needed streamlining and co-ordination of the UN's activities
and will do so with fewer staff and more cost effectiveness.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "30"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SPAIN FINDS 1996 FULL OF HEALTH SYSTEM PROBLEMS

MADRID - As 1996 begins, Spain's public health sector is faced with a
host of woes, including debt, fraud, internal dissension and the still
unresolved problems resulting from the two-month long physician's
strike.

Problems include:

* Hospitals throughout the country are up to two years behind in
payments to various companies which supply them with goods and
services. The suppliers have threatened on numerous occasions to halt
deliveries and suspend services if the situation doesn't improve. The
service supplier's association FENIN claims that the late payments are
a serious problem, especially for smaller suppliers, and has proposed 1
February as the new deadline for the threatened stoppage of supply
delivery. The association also has plans to denounce the situation
before the European Community.

* The ministry of health has made public its concern at the steep rise
over the last 10 years of absenteeism in the workplace due to illness.
Workplace illness has tripled costs for the public health sector. In
1995, it cost the government Pta466 billion ($3.72 billion) to pay for
temporary incapacities, up from Pta376 billion five years ago. The
ministry attributes much of this increase to insufficient control of
diagnoses by physicians, a charge strongly denied by the profession.

* Spain's 4,500 substitute doctors, temporarily employed by the
country's health system but without fixed contracts, are beginning to
protest against layoffs among their ranks due to the return to duty of
contracted physicians who have been on long-term sabbaticals. Several
hundred of Madrid's 1,300 substitute doctors, many who have worked for
years without a contract, have begun small-scale protests at the
layoffs at several of the city's hospitals, and the national body which
represents them is in the process of deciding whether to support them
with widespread actions. The state health agency, Insalud,
characterised the substitute physicians fears as exaggerated.

* Still pending in negotiations between Insalud and the physicians
union after an accord was reached to end last spring's strike are
agreements on many important topics, among them: the amount of pay
increases for 1997 and following years (salaries for 1996 had been
agreed on in the original negotiations); the increased role of doctors
in hospital management reform; the situation of substitute physicians;
and new standards for university medical degrees.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "31"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

NORWEGIAN DOCTORS FAVOUR PRIVATISATION

OSLO - Den norske Laegeforening (DnL) has formed a special working
group to promote the representative organisation's case for the phased-
privatisation of out-patients centres attached to Norway's state run
hospitals and clinics.

"Our case is that under a privatised structure, these out-patient
centres could achieve a higher level of product and give a better all-
round service. As it stands, they are poorly managed with low
efficiency rates. Privatisation is essential if they are to reach their
full potential," said DnL's chairman Hans Petter Aarseth. At issue are
over 200 out-patient centres which generated annual revenues of $317
million in 1994 and are forecast to show a 4 per cent rise in turnover,
adjusted for inflation, in 1995.

"Privatisation would have the added-effect of improving working
conditions, reducing work-loads for doctors and nurses, while paving
the way for better wages for medical personnel. Under the plan we are
advocating, doctors would work one to two days every week at out-
patient centres, taking care of their own patients," said Mr Aarseth.

"These centres must move with the times. Why should qualified doctors
who has gone through eight years of medical training want to work for a
basic annual salary of $29,000, when they could earn three times as
much in private healthcare," said Mr Aarseth. Medical staff assigned to
the out-patient centres are, according to Mr Aarseth, "battle weary",
and are fully behind the DnL's drive to lobby government action on the
privatisation issue. "Doctors are tired of struggling through outdated
systems, while younger doctors and specialists do not want to work for
state-operated medical centres. Along with this we have lengthening
queues of increasingly exasperated patients," he said.

The DnL recently published a highly critical report detailing the low
performance levels at state-managed out-patients centres. The report
found that centres were "too bureaucratic", under-staffed and run in a
disorganised fashion". The report concludes that state-run hospitals
are not designed or equipped to operate out-patients centres. "This is
a conclusion we reach every day. These institutions are simply too big
and bureaucratic," said Mr Aarseth.

"A patient attending a state out-patient centre for a check-up in
Norway is not met by a doctor, but by a huge bureaucracy, in which he
or she will see a doctor unfamiliar with their case or condition.
Records are often missing, and time is wasted as the relevant files are
located. This is not something that happens only on rare occasions. It
is a routine event at state-managed centres," said Mr Aarseth.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "32"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FDA FLOODED WITH RESPONSES TO PROPOSED CIGARETTE RULING

ROCKVILLE, MD - The US Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Dockets
Management Branch was a site to behold on 2 January 1995, the last day
for comments on FDA's proposed rule to restrict minors' exposure and
access to tobacco advertisements and products. The branch had received
59,992 comments on the proposed rule that appeared in the Federal
Register, 11 August 1995.

"We have filled three aisles and 3,688 files with the comments, not
including the 32 cartons of comments received from tobacco companies
and their attorneys," a manager of the branch told IHN. "The total
tally will be far more than 60,000 comments and 4,000 files, as we
haven't received many documents that were postmarked 2 January," she
continued. "I have been here over 20 years and this is the most that I
have ever seen."

The proposed rule and its supporting documents fill a folder. Studies
have been reproduced with lengthy footnotes to support the action
proposed by the FDA. The administration asserts that cigarettes are a
drug delivery device and therefore is subject to the jurisdiction of
the FDA. The rule claims that tobacco companies should be required to
fund $150 million per year in advertising campaigns that warn children
of the health dangers of smoking.

Various restrictions are proposed on tobacco company advertising that
is accessible to minors. Additionally it proposes to ban cigarette
sales from vending machines. The FDA estimates that the cost of the
rule to tobacco manufacturers will be $230 million annually over 15
years, while the benefits are estimated to be between $2.9 billion to
$4.3 billion, primarily in lives saved.

Responses to the proposed rule were received from a variety of people.
School children and groups opposed to cigarette smoking sent pages of
comments. Form letters were received from owners of grocery stores,
provided by the Retail Grocers Association, and from people who
attended health fairs. Civil libertarians opposed another area of
government infringement of personal rights, and state legislators,
especially from tobacco growing areas, were aghast at federal power
enhancement. In addition, 32 US senators wrote urging the FDA to
abandon the proposal.

The cigarette industry waited until the last day of comment to deliver
its response. Five companies and the Tobacco Institute, assisted by
major law firms, prepared a joint response to the ruling. In addition,
they have challenged the ruling in court, claiming that the FDA has
exceeded its legal authority in proposing to regulate cigarettes. The
industry asserts that neither the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act nor the
1976 medical device amendments grant FDA statutory authority to
regulate cigarettes.

The Philip Morris Company's Philip Morris US unit, BAT Industries PLC's
Brown & Williamson unit, Brooke Group Ltd's Ligget Group unit, RJR
Nabisco Holdings Corporation's RJ Reynolds Tobacco Company unit and
Loews Corporation's Lorillard Tobacco Company unit assert that nicotine
does not fit the legal definition of a drug and its effects do not fit
the legal definition of addiction. Moreover, they claim that the FDA
based its rule on secret documents and confidential industry papers.
The tobacco companies were assisted in preparing their response of 12
volumes of 2,000 pages and appendices of 40,000 pages by lawyers from
such prestigious firms as Arnold & Porter, Wiley, Rein & Fielding,
Covington & Burling and others.

The industry's estimated costs of the ruling differs significantly from
that of the FDA. It claims that the rule will cost manufacturers
between $748 million to $1.5 billion in one-time costs and $1.25
billion annually.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "33"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MEDICAL MALPRACTICE AWARDS RISE

WASHINGTON, DC - Jury Verdict Research, Inc reports that the US median
medical malpractice jury award in 1995 was $500,000, some 40 per cent
higher than 1994. The number of $1 million awards increased to 35 per
cent of the verdicts. Responses from other groups indicate that 70 per
cent of malpractice claims filed against doctors do not result in
payment. Those that go to trial, however, result in 80 per cent decided
in favour of the defendant.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "34"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

ALBERTA WILL NOT CUT DOCTOR FEES

VANCOUVER - The province of Alberta has dropped its demand for a C$50
million cut in doctors' healthcare billings. In its final meeting
before Christmas, the cabinet agreed to freeze doctors' fees at current
levels for the next three years. The province presently pays doctors
C$736.7 million ($533.8 million) annually.

The decision ends nine months of wrangling between the government and
the Alberta Medical Association. Ontario, however, appears headed for a
similar clash with the healthcare givers. Its controversial omnibus
Bill 26 would give the minister of health unilateral power to fund,
shut or merge hospitals, as part of an arsenal of budget-tightening
measures.

As well, the Bill would set up a provincial agency to inspect medical
and billing practices. It could terminate a doctor's right to practice,
bypassing the Ontario Medical Association. So far the Bill is still
wielding its bumpy way through the legislature, with stiff opposition
from all affected groups.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "35"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MEXICO PLANS TO EXTEND HEALTHCARE

MEXICO CITY - Mexico's president, Ernesto Zedillo, unveiled plans to
provide healthcare services to remote areas and to expand service to
the country's poor. The stabilised economy and expected 1996 growth
will free resources to support the healthcare plan, claimed Zedillo.

"This package will be an essential component of the strategy with which
we propose to widen the coverage of health services to the most distant
parts of the country, to those places which until now have not had
these essential services," Zedillo said in a speech to Mexican nurses.
The government plans to implement a 12 point plan that will have
doctors and other health providers man health brigades and mobile
health units.

Additionally, the government plans to improve health services to the
needy. These efforts will include: expanding vaccination programmes;
increasing access to family planning methods; improving basic home
hygiene, monitoring child nutrition; increasing care to pregnant women;
and enhancing prevention and treatment of illnesses associated with
poverty.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "36"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

JAPANESE GROUP TO FIGHT MALPRACTICE

TOKYO - A new group, Society for the Study of Medical Safety, was
founded in Japan on 9 December 1995. Its aim is to identify dangerous
medical practices, learn from Western medical systems and exchange
information through seminars. The group's founders include lawyers,
medical professionals and citizen groups.

"Through these activities, we hope in the near future to draw up
guidelines and make suggestions to medical circles on how medical
workers can avoid accidents", the Society's founder, lawyer Yoshio
Kato, stated in an interview with a leading daily, The Japan Times.

Plaintiffs win only about one-third of the 400 to 500 malpractice suits
filed in Japan each year, and Kato blames these low figures on the lack
of transparency of Japan's medical system. "Under the legal system,
patients or their families who have almost no access to medical
information are obliged to prove malpractice that often occurs behind
the closed doors of operating rooms." This task is exacerbated by a
tendency among healthcare workers to cover up malpractice, he added.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "37"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

JAPAN PROPOSES TO REDUCE PHARMACEUTICAL SPENDING

TOKYO - The Japanese government continues to look for ways to control
drug spending, as it prepares for its biennial evaluation and
reconstruction of the National Health Insurance (NHI) Drug Price List.
The Central Social Insurance Medical Council (CSIMC), responsible for
making recommendations to the government on healthcare prices, has met
and made proposals for establishing the next drug price list, scheduled
to be published in April, 1996.

In Japan, ethical drugs are reimbursed according to the NHI Drug Price
List. The prices of drugs are calculated on a weighted average method.
A price is set by adding a given percentage of the current price to the
weighted average price of all packaged market prices by brand. Then
some adjustment amount is added to this price to set the new NHI drug
price.

While this method sounds complicated, and it
is, the outcome since 1981 has been a reduction in drug prices. The
table below is illustrative.

               NHI drug price reductions

                                  Per cent
Year                              reduction
1981                              18.6
1983                               4.9
1984                              16.6
1985                               6.0
1986                               5.1
1988                              10.2
1990                               9.2
1992                               8.1
1994                               6.6

Source: Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association

The CSIMC made several proposals that could be implemented by April,
such as setting the price lower for drugs whose market size has
expanded. A suggestion that new methods for price calculation was also
submitted. In addition, a subcommittee of the CSIMC issued a report in
November that included various suggestions to reduce drug spending. The
suggestions ranged from debating the necessity of the drug price list
to paying doctors and hospitals for dispensing prescription drugs on a
capitation basis.

Additionally, the bonus scheme for introducing innovative new drugs was
discussed. Currently, drugs that are entirely new or that clearly offer
safer and more effective treatment can earn premiums of 10 to 30 per
cent on the drug price. Those drugs that are similar to an existing
medication but are scientifically proven to be either more effective or
safer can be permitted a premium from 1.5 to 4.5 per cent, the same
range percentage as orphan drugs.

The proposals to contain costs by changing the scheme for new drugs
that were similar to products already on the market faced strong
opposition from the pharmaceutical industry and was postponed. The
industry was concerned that the effect of the proposals would diminish
Japan's current drug market, valued at Y6 trillion ($62.8 billion), the
second largest in the world, by 10 per cent. It seems, however, the
loss will be less than Y100 billion.

The recommendations concerning prescription drugs represent only a
portion of the suggestions from the CSIMC to cut healthcare spending.
It is expected that this year the Ministry of Health and Welfare will
begin to adopt many of the CSIMC proposals for cost containment.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "38"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

TAIWAN'S NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE IN JEOPARDY

TAIPEI - The dawn of the new year marked the one-year anniversary of
Taiwan's National Health Insurance Bureau (NHIB). In a speech
celebrating the occasion, NHIB general manager Yeh Ching-chuan warned
that the plan was in jeopardy of going bankrupt within the next three
years if proper changes are not made to increase efficiency and
decrease costs within the plan.

Mr Yeh said the National Health Insurance Plan will be changed to boost
efficiency and win public confidence. The government wants to contract
some of the administrative duties to the private sector to decrease
expenses, while maintaining supervision over the entire plan.

Another move will be to increase the costs for patients visiting
hospital emergency rooms without first consulting a local doctor. This,
Mr Yeh said, would deter people from visiting hospitals when they are
suffering from minor ailments.

Tests and treatment involving high-tech equipment such as ultra-sound
will be charged to the patient as opposed to being covered under the
plan. The bureau, however, plans to ease fees for those patients
suffering from serious chronic illnesses requiring regular treatment.

The health plan has been under fire from the government's main
opposition party as well as large corporations that complain of the
plan's convoluted regulations and the high premiums companies are
required to pay per employee covered under the plan.

A recent survey showed that only half the respondents were satisfied
with the new health plan. About a third of those questioned said they
were "very unhappy" with the plan.

Mr Yeh said it was possible to get the nation's insurance plan
operating in a way that is acceptable to most people, and said the
bureau would work to solve problems caused by human error, waste or
corruption. People will gradually warm to the idea of the new health
plan, he said, but it will take time.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "39"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MEDICAL BENEFITS COMPENSATION LEGISLATION PROPOSED

CANBERRA - The Australian government has introduced legislation to
recover taxpayer-funded Medicare or nursing home benefits payments for
injuries or diseases for which the injured persons are compensated
through common law remedies, workers compensation, third party or
general insurance. The practice is referred to as "double dipping".

The scheme essentially revolves around insurers notifying the Health
Insurance Commission of a claim. The Commission then works out how much
it is owed for Medicare and nursing home benefits and after the
settlement of the insurance claim takes place, the insurer pays that
sum to the federal government. The insurer then pays the remainder of
the insurance settlement to the claimant.

Although in principle opposed to double dipping, the parliamentary
opposition parties have nonetheless opposed the amending bills on the
fundamental point that the "cure for the double dipping problem first
proposed by the government is worse in fact than the disease".

The opposition parties argue that the A$40 million ($29.9 million) or
so per year that the government estimates it will save for the taxpayer
will be almost totally swallowed up by the cost of the administrative
machinery operated by the Health Insurance Commission, insurance
companies and other compensation payers.

The most contentious feature of the government proposed moves against
double dipping is the administration fee imposed on compensation payers
to make the government reform self-funding. In reality, argues the
opposition, this is an industry tax imposed on insurers, be they
general, third party, work cover or workers' compensation. In effect,
it is shifting to these insurers the cost of what is effectively a
function of government - collecting the revenue.

Furthermore, doctors, lawyers and insurers have all expressed concerns
about the proposed legislation. The Law Council, for example, believes
that the requirement for the Health Insurance Commission to be notified
of the various stages of the claims process will just wreak havoc in
the areas of personal injury and workers' compensation. It also
foresees complicated disputes about what benefits are associated with
the injury or condition for which compensation is being sought. The
Insurance Council of Australia says the burdens imposed by these
disputes could cost claimants and insurers as much as A$30 million
annually.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "40"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

NEW ZEALAND AND AUSTRALIA AMEND MEDICAL PRACTITIONER LAWS

WELLINGTON/SYDNEY - New Zealand has completed a comprehensive overhaul
of its laws on medical practitioners, while Australia has completed
minor changes designed to prevent doctors from circumventing the rules
on claiming under its Medicare system. This includes tightening the
definition of medical practitioner.

The New Zealand legislation devolves more powers to the Medical Council
in deciding whether to register doctors and leaves it to the Council to
decide whether it will recognise overseas medical training for
registration purposes. Doctors trained in the UK, Ireland, Canada,
Australia and South Africa previously had a quasi-automatic right in
law to registration in New Zealand. They will lose this, although
Australian-trained doctors will not in practice notice a change, as
there are already mutual recognition arrangements in place between the
Medical Councils of Australia and New Zealand.

The legislation also allows the Council to withhold or attach
conditions to practising certificates where there are doubts about a
doctor's competence. It gives the Council the right to require a
medical practitioner to submit to a medical examination or otherwise
act if it has evidence that the practitioner is not physically or
mentally fit to practice and substitutes vocational registration (ie,
including GP's) for specialist registration.

Australia's Human Services and Health Legislation Amendment Bill (No 2)
1995 incorporated changes to the Health Insurance Act and the National
Health Act. The changes to the Health Insurance Act stop doctors who
have temporary registration or who are occupational trainees billing
the Medicare scheme for services provided "on behalf" of another
practitioner. This is a breach of their visa and registration
conditions but has been difficult to detect.

The changes to the National Health Act increase patients' liability for
co-payments amounts under Australia's universal healthcare scheme,
Medicare. Previously out-of-hospital medical services were free once
patients had totalled A$400 ($298.5) in co-payments in any one year.
From 1 January 1996, this has become A$600. The co-payment amount is
generally around 15 per cent of the cost of a consultation or
treatment. (All hospital treatment is free.)



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "41"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

NEW ZEALAND ADDS MONEY TO CUT WAITING LISTS

WELLINGTON - The New Zealand government has budgeted an additional
NZ$30 million ($20 million) to manage waiting list backlogs as a
prelude to introduction of booking systems and a guaranteed maximum
wait of six months for elective surgery. The money to cut waiting lists
is for the year beginning 1 July 1996. It will be directed particularly
at ophthalmology, orthopaedics and urology.

The policy objective is to have waiting lists for non-urgent surgical,
medical or diagnostic procedures replaced by booking systems based on
clinical priority by 1 July 1997. Patients will either be booked for a
procedure to occur within six months or be directed back to their
primary care practitioner for continuing management.

Management of waiting times is one of two priorities in policy
guidelines for regional health authorities published at end-November
1995. The other is mental health. Key issues in mental health are
greater availability of methadone treatment and implementation of
individual service plans, including discharge plans for mental health
patients.

Additional funding has also been allocated to essential dental care for
low income groups, breast cancer control, tobacco control and
reproductive and sexual health. In the year starting 1 July 1996, the
regional health authorities will receive an additional NZ$22 million
($14.5 million) for these programmes. Total funding is NZ$5.126 billion
($3.3 billion).

A review of tertiary services was published at the same time as the
policy guidelines, indicating preferred options in terms of the number
of centres for bone marrow transplants, cardiac surgical services,
liver and kidney transplants, neonatal intensive care, neurosurgical
services, oncology services and spinal cord injury rehabilitation
services.

The recommendations are based on the premise that the data on which the
rationale for concentration of tertiary services "is not strong enough
to conclude that bigger is necessarily better for tertiary services in
New Zealand". The Committee which reviewed tertiary services concluded
that it is possible to have a greater number of smaller tertiary
service centres providing good quality patient care in a cost-effective
way which is reasonably in close proximity to patients and their
families.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "42"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SOUTH AFRICA HEALTH REFORMS TO CURTAIL DRUG SALES

JOHANNESBURG - Health minister Nkosazana Zuma has drafted a health
reform plan that has infuriated drug companies. The reforms that
include controls on the sale, price and reimbursement for drugs are
necessary, Zuma claims, to address the inequities of the health system
that resulted from apartheid.

The plan, that is expected to be presented to the cabinet soon,
includes such measures as: establishing a national committee to monitor
and regulate drug prices; creating a national essential drug list that
will restrict the number of drugs available in the public sector, with
extension to the private arena at a future date; requiring that generic
drugs be substituted for brand name medications in the public and
private sectors; and promoting parallel importation of drugs from
outside the country, beginning with high volume essential drugs. The
proposals stem from a government commission report that claims if an
essential drug list reduced the number of medications available from
3,000 to 200-500, the country would save about R500 million.

The South African drug industry, worth R5.5 billion ($1.5 billion),
warns that such plans will have severe negative affects, discourage
research and development and discourage international drug company
investments. The country's pharmaceutical manufacturers association
claims that the measures are tantamount to nationalisation and that
price controls have been ineffective and unworkable in other countries
that have tried them.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "43"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

HUNGARIAN DRUG COMPANIES HOLD STEADY IN SPITE OF COMPETITION

BUDAPEST - Hungarian pharmaceutical companies are getting a handle on
fierce competition from multinational drug giants who have established
a presence in the country since 1990. The companies that have performed
best on the ex-COMECON drug market have not increased their brand name
offerings, but have developed the marketing infrastructure to retain
their strength.

Drug sales in Hungary in 1995 were about $650 million, or about $64 per
person per year. Expenditures for medications account for 39 per cent
of the total healthcare costs, $166 per person annually. Government and
insurance officials agree that drug costs are unsustainable and have
tried different techniques to limit the growth in drug sales.

Between 1990 and 1994, the number of brand drugs offered to Hungarians
has increased by 65 per cent, almost all accountable to foreign
companies. The country's liberal drug registration has resulted in a
market saturated with medications not significantly different from one
another. For example, 29 different drugs containing paracetamol are on
the market and another 51 preparations are being considered for
registration.

The Hungarian pharmaceutical companies are making efforts that seem
successful, in stabilising their position in the home market. During
the past few years, all the major firms have completed or are
undergoing privatisation. With little experience in direct marketing,
efforts have focused on developing a western style marketing structure,
with concentrated marketing strategies aimed at physicians.

Drug companies have been able to stay aloft

Despite relative internal market losses, the Hungarian pharmaceutical
industry has been able to stay aloft in contrast with heavy losses in
other industries facing the international market. Pharmaceutical
companies were among the first shareholder businesses to appear on the
Budapest Stock Exchange and their success is illustrated by the
following stocks on the market.

* Richter, the biggest pharmaceutical company closed a favourable first
half year in 1995 by doubling its previous half year production to
around Ft4.7 billion ($347million). Stock prices rose between November
1994 and November 1995 about 80 per cent which significantly exceeded
inflation (below 30 per cent during this time period).

* Human Rt produces, among other products, Naksol, a preparation for
the treatment of burns. The company was introduced to the stock market
in July 1995 with initial prices about 115 per cent of its nominal
value. In September, there was a corrective lowering of the stock
price.

* Egis finished privatisation in August, when the last 28 per cent
owned by the State Privatising Agency was sold to Natwest. The initial
offering brought Ft1.5 billion, the largest in the history of the new
Budapest Stock Market. The initial stock price of Ft2,625 gained 31 per
cent within five months to the current price Ft3,445.

* Pharmavit, selling generic drugs and vitamins, had stock prices that
fluctuated between Ft3,750 and 6,000 throughout the autumn.

Two other pharmaceutical companies, Alkaloida and Biogal, are
undergoing a gradual privatisation process and are not yet on the
registered stock market.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "44"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BRACCO PURCHASES INTEREST IN ESAOTE

Italy's Bracco corp, specialising in diagnostic equipment and new
technology for echography, has purchased 15 per cent interest in Esaote
Biomedica for $11 million. Esaote, also involved in diagnostics,
expects 1995 sales of $17.2 million, an increase of $3 million from
1994. Bracco sales in 1995 are expected to be L1,600 billion ($1
billion) up from L1,142 billion in 1994. An overseas operation,
particularly in the US, is planned for both companies.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "45"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BB MEDTECH FORMED TO INVEST IN MEDICAL AND HEALTHCARE COMPANIES

BB Medtech AG, a holding company formed by Bellevue Asset Management
was listed 21 December 1995 on the Zurich Bourse. BB Medtech was formed
15 November to invest in medical and healthcare companies. Prior to its
listing, BB Medtech had 84 per cent of its assets investing in such
companies as Phycor Inc, Boston Scientific Corp, Columbia/HCA
Healthcare, United HealthCare Corp and Healthsource Inc.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "46"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SUN LIFE AWARDED CANADA'S HEALTH INSURANCE BUSINESS

Sun Life Assurance Co of Toronto has been awarded Canada's federal
government's health insurance business, covering over 230,000 civil
servants (including the royal police and defence forces). Total persons
covered, including dependents, and pensioners, is over one million.
Total yearly premiums are estimated at C$230 million ($166.7 million).
Mutual Life Assurance Co of Waterloo had the business since l960, and
the account is believed to represent two thirds of Mutual's total
health insurance business.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "47"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SWEDISH MEDICAL LABORATORIES MERG

Three Swedish medical laboratories, Calab Medicinska Laboratories,
Medilab Kliniska Laboratorier and St Gvrans Sjukhus Laboratorier, have
merged into a new company, CMS Medicinska Laboratorier. The new
company, which will offer diagnostic services to private and state run
hospitals, clinics and doctors, will have annual revenues of $41.1
million.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "48"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

SYNECTICS MEDICAL BUYS ALL SHARES IN DANTEC MEDICAL

Synectics Medical Ab, a Swedish healthcare group headquartered in
Stockholm, has bought all shares in Dantec Medical a/s, a Danish
manufacturer of diagnostic laboratory test systems and kits used by
private and public sector hospitals and clinics. In what constituted a
reverse take-over, Synectics Medical Ab paid seller Incentive Group $12
million for Dantec, which had revenues of $37 million in 1994 and has
forecast a 10 per cent increase in sales volume for 1995. By contrast,
Synectics Medical had revenues of $30 million in 1994, with sales
expected to increase by 6 per cent in 1995.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "49"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MEDSTAT GROUP CONTRACT

Medstat Group (Ann Arbor, MI) was awarded a three year, $3.8 million
contract to conduct research and policy related tasks for the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation's Division of
Disability, Aging and Long-Term Care within the US Department of Health
and Human Services.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "50"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

FLORIDA HEALTH CENTRES SOLD TO HUMANA

Coastal Physicians Group Inc (Durham, NC) sold 47 South Florida health
centres to Humana Inc (Louisville, KY) for $50 million. Humana, a
health maintenance organisation, used Coastal's network of physicians
to provide care to more than 75,000 of its members in South Florida.
The two companies have had a difficult relationship during the past
year.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "51"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

AARP TO END ARRANGEMENT WITH PRUDENTIAL

The American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) announced that it
would end its exclusive arrangement with the Prudential Insurance
Company of America at the end of 1997, when the current agreement
expires. Prudential has 5.6 million AARP members as customers, more
than one-third of the company's 15 million health insurance customers.
While Prudential can still offer members insurance cover, AARP wants
other companies to also participate in its health insurance programme.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "52"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

HEALTHSOUTH TO PURCHASE ADVANTAGE HEALTH CORP

HealthSouth (Birmingham, AL) has agreed to purchase Advantage Health
Corp (Woburn, MA) in a stock swap valued at about $325 million. The
purchase will add 150 rehabilitation hospitals and clinics to
HealthSouth's 42 state network of out-patient and in-patient
rehabilitation facilities, diagnostic centres and surgical clinics.
With this acquisition, HealthSouth will operate more than 850
facilities in 44 states. HealthSouth's revenue, not including the
Advantage purchase, is projected to top $2.2 billion in 1996. Advantage
has estimated 1995 revenue of $200 million.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "53"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

STERIS TO ACQUIRE AMSCO INTERNATIONAL

Steris Corp (Mentor, OH) has agreed to acquire Amsco International Inc
(Pittsburgh, PA) in a stock transaction valued at about $508 million.
Steris's fiscal year (ending 31 March) sales are projected at less than
$100 million, while Amsco expects 1995 sales of $450 million. Under the
terms of the agreement Amsco shareholders would get 0.46 share of
Steris common stock for each share of Amsco. The transaction is
expected to be concluded by April, 1996. Steris believes that the buy
will make it a major player in providing sterilisation and surgical
support equipment and services to the healthcare industry.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "54"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB TO ACQUIRE 77 PER CENT OF PHARMAVIT

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co has entered into an agreement to acquire 77 per
cent of shares in Pharmavit Gyogyszer-es Elelmiszeripari Reszvemytarsas
AG, one of Hungary's largest manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals,
over-the-counter medicines and nutritional products. The offer price
was $62.35 per share. In the first half of 1995, Pharmavit posted a pre-
tax profit of Ft299.6 million ($2.2 million) on consolidated sales
revenues of Ft2.23 billion.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "55"></A>Copyright
INTERNATIONAL HEALTHCARE NEWS via NewsNet
January 1, 1996

MEDICAL DEVICES SECTOR SHOWS STRONG GROWTH POTENTIAL

LONDON - Shares in Anagen, a small UK-based emerging immunodiagnostic
company, jumped 19p to 79p following news that it has received US Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for its new assay to measure
testosterone. This brings to 16 the number of assays cleared by the FDA
for sale of its AuraFlex automated immunoassay system.

AuraFlex, the company's lead product, is an automated in vitro
immunodiagnostic testing machine, designed by Anagen and built by
contractors. Confident of securing a marketing deal soon, the company
expects sales to flow within the first half of 1996.

Mervyn Sennett, chief executive and founder of Anagen, told IHN:
"Bundling is a word that is beginning to be bounced around the
diagnostics business at the moment. The big managed care units are
integrating with huge purchasing power; they want to do deals across
the board so that they have one supplier for a whole level of services.
The large diagnostics companies are expanding their range so they have
a larger package to offer."

The $15 billion in vitro diagnostics testing market is crowded and
getting more crowded. Immunodiagnostics represent the fastest growing
segment with around $6 billion sales. Anagen is concentrating on
developing the essential high volume tests required by around a fifth
of the immunodiagnostics market. "The market potential is
considerable," said Sennett.

Divestment and consolidation presents major growth opportunities for
scale-minded diagnostics companies. DuPont Co, for instance, announced
the sale of its Medical Product's in-vitro diagnostics business to Dade
International, an independent company controlled by investment funds
managed by Bain Capital Inc, with shareholders including Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners and Dade management. The acquisition will create a
group with combined sales of $1 billion annually, creating one of the
world's leading diagnostics companies. In 1994, Dade had sales of $625
million, with 4,000 staff worldwide. Products include cardiac
immunodiagnostics, laboratory controls and data management.

Other deals concluded recently include Trinity Biotech's three-year $20
million contract as Warner-Lambert's exclusive supplier of pregnancy
tests for the US over-the-counter (OTC) market. Abaxis secured a three-
year non-exclusive distribution agreement with Baxter Healthcare Group
for the latter to distribute Abaxis' Piccolo portable point-of-care
blood analyser to medical providers in the US. The product allows
clinicians to perform routine blood tests on a few drops of whole blood
and provides test results in less than 14 minutes with the precision
and accuracy equivalent to a clinical laboratory.

Medical device analysts raised their ratings on Ventritex to strong buy
from buy, with shares up $1-1/2 to $19-1/2 on 12 December. Ventritex's
Cadet implantable defibrillator for treating too-rapid heartbeat is
expected to be approved on schedule and likely to prove a strong
challenge to Medtronic's Jewel implantable defibrillator line. One
analyst rejected market rumours that the FDA might delay Cadet's
approval as unwarranted. Shares in Medtronic, downgraded from strong
buy to buy by one Wall Street analyst, slipped $1-1/4 at $55-1/4.

Bio-Vascular Inc, launched in the mid-80s and focused on medical
imaging and surgical tissues, posted a fiscal 1995 profit, its first
move into the black. Last year it posted a loss of $0.26 per share on
sales of $6.6 million. The company reported a non-recurring $1.5
million revenue gain in the fourth quarter to end-October, relating to
a licensing deal involving its VoxelGeo three-dimensional visualisation
software. The company's Per-Strip product, an air-tight, staple-line
reinforcement used in lung volume reduction surgery to treat late-stage
emphysema, accounts for more than half of the company's revenues and is
expected to boost sales growth further next year. Its Dura-Guard brain
tissue patch was approved by the FDA in July.

In late-December Vita Signs, Inc announced it had received marketing
approval from the FDA for the company's Viringe vascular access flush
device for both saline and heparin applications. It plans to begin
marketing the device in the US in March 1996, targeting the US home
care market through an exclusive relationship with a national alliance
of home care dealers. Its own sales force will market the product to US
hospitals. European marketing is planned for later in 1996.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-28</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-187</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh75.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024049 text/html 35430
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:39:01 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:32 GMT
Content-length: 35241
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh75.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet <BR>
February 22, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Primary Care Substance Abuse Training Gives Plans&nbsp;Chances for Quick Payback</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(415 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Managed Medicaid Plan's Providers Contend Program&nbsp;Owes Them Millions</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(508 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>Plan Builds Disorder Pathway As Cue for Patients,&nbsp;Providers</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(551 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Breast Cancer Study Could Give Carve-Out Plans the Blues</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(251 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Little-Fish CompCare Deals Could Trigger More Mergers</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(594 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Group Captures Patient Views Using Electronic System</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(375 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>HHS Rejects Medicaid Waiver For Mental Health-Only Plan</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(295 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>Consider Employer Concerns In Outcome Measure Design</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(431 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>POLICY & REPORTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(645 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>Credentialing Service May Go Electronic</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(159 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>INDUSTRY NEWS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(474 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Primary Care Substance Abuse Training Gives Plans
Chances for Quick Payback


Arming primary care physicians with the tools to
diagnose substance abuse is one example of how quality improvement
initiatives actually lower costs.

Better substance abuse training in primary care physician residency
programs could improve dismal diagnosis rates, a panel of
clinicians and health administrators recommends.
But managed care organizations shouldn't leave the job to graduate
medical education, one health plan administrator urges. Taking the
lead in educating primary care physicians on substance abuse
treatment can help health plans achieve a substantial and quick
return on their investments.
Arming primary care physicians with the tools to diagnose substance
abuse is one example of how quality improvement initiatives
actually lower costs, says Dr. John Ludden, senior vice president
for medical affairs at Harvard Pilgrim Health Care of Brookline,
Mass. "The patient feels better, the PCPs' lives are made more
organized, the cost picture is better, and the employer wins."
And substance abuse patients can be treated with greater success
rates than people with many other chronic illnesses, says A. Thomas
McLellan, professor of psychiatry at the University of
Pennsylvania.
The competency model recommended by the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation
offers health plans a starting point for education efforts, Ludden
adds. "Those are things that ought to be expected of PCPs in
currently functioning organizations."
Ludden and McLellan were members of a panel of 45 physicians,
employers, academics, public officials and administrators that
composed the list of competencies that primary care physicians
should learn in residency programs.
Substance abuse education historically has been at the bottom of
managed care organizations' list of priorities, but that could
change rapidly.
"What forces this up the priority list, especially in integrated
MCOs that do behavioral health, is that it's one of those few
situations where everyone wins," Ludden says.
And enhancing a health plan's ability to identify and treat
substance abuse patients will pay back quickly, probably in 18
months or less, Ludden argues. "It's one of the very clear areas
where employers understand the payback," he says. "They don't have
to be sold that anymore."

Among the primary care physician competencies recommended by the
foundation:

o        Screening patients for alcohol and
drug abuse;
o        Using office-based therapy,
including brief intervention techniques, counseling and
pharmacotherapy;
o        Referral to specialized treatment
and other community programs;
o        Care of affected family members; and
o        Recognizing and assisting colleagues
with substance abuse problems.

Contact Joe Sutherland of the Macy Foundation at (301) 652-1558,
and Ludden at (617) 730-4746.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Managed Medicaid Plan's Providers Contend Program
Owes Them Millions


About 65 mental health agencies in Massachusetts may
sue a Medicaid managed mental health contractor for $6 million to
$9 million in unpaid claims, saying a billing catch-22 deprived
them  of the money.

A managed behavioral health firm has found itself caught under
attack from providers who want payment for services rendered under
the Massachusetts managed mental health program.
The providers may sue the state's Medicaid managed mental health
care contractor, Mental Health Management of America, for breach of
contract over $6 million to $9 million in allegedly unpaid claims.
The state has promised to make sure money owed providers is paid.
The providers say the contractor trapped them in a catch-22 to
avoid paying claims for mental health and substance abuse
treatment. The contractor required that claims be submitted within
90 days of service and include preauthorization numbers, then
allegedly didn't furnish the numbers promptly enough for the
providers to meet the deadline.
"Claims processing was not [Mental Health Management's] strength,"
acknowledges Bruce Bullen, commissioner of the state Division for
Medical Assistance, which oversees Medicaid. For example, there was
a problem with a claims backlog.
"We'll make sure [Mental Health Management] is resonsible for
complying with the contract," Bullen says. "But it doesn't mean
we'll pay all claims."
He noted that Mental Health Management "performed in a superior
fashion in some areas, like quality management."
John Kahn, a lawyer representing 65 mental health agencies
allegedly owed money by Mental Health Management,
agreed that quality of care wasn't at issue.
But Massachusetts canceled Mental Health Management's Medicaid
managed care contract. The company's parent, First Health Services,
did not have its contract to run New Mexico's certified Medicaid
management system renewed in 1994.
Mental Health Management of America, owned by First Financial
Management of Atlanta, got the Massachusetts managed care contract
for mental health and substance abuse treatment in 1992.
In a letter to a Mental Health Management outside lawyer, Kahn asks
the contractor to process the providers' unpaid claims and suspend
troublesome edits related to prior approval, billing within 90
days, a 365-day payment appeals process and claims identification
numbers.
Kahn says Mental Health Management hasn't met providers' demands
yet, but the two sides are scheduled to meet next week. 
At press time, Mental Health Management had not granted a request
for comment to MBH.
Mental Health Management broke new ground in providing
comprehensive managed mental health care to Medicaid, so there were
growing pains, says Ron Preston, HCFA associate regional
administrator. But that's not why Mental Health Management's
contract wasn't renewed past June. "Other applicants had more solid
applications," Preston says. Massachusetts Behavioral Health
Partners won the bid.
Under the contract with Massachusetts, Mental Health Management was
paid $11.5 million in admini- strative expenses under a
risk-bearing contract that allowed it to make up to $750,000 if it
kept expenses in line or shell out up to $750,000 if it went over
budget. The first 92 cents of every dollar saved went to the state,
and the remaining 8 cents to Mental Health  Management.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Plan Builds Disorder Pathway As Cue for Patients,
Providers


Confronting a relatively uncharted illness, a health
network used its experience with past pathways to shape guidelines
for treatment of dissociative identity disorder.

Starting from scratch, Presbyterian Behavioral Health Network of
Albuquerque, N.M., has designed a clinical pathway to guide
patients with dissociative identity disorder and the providers who
treat them down a standard route.
"With DID, there were no models and no clinical studies to work
from," explains Selene Mahaffey, quality improvement specialist at
Presbyterian. But Albuquerque's intensely competitive managed care
environment puts a premium on controlling inpatient length of stay
and proving treatment value.
So Presbyterian built a DID pathway from the ground up, drawing
from experiences that it gained in crafting protocols for bipolar
disorder and alcohol  detoxification.

Among lessons learned during those earlier efforts:

o        Work very closely as a team when
creating treatment guidelines.
o        Come to a consensus on what
constitutes effective treatment.
o        Dig up the latest research on a
target illness, concentrating especially on controlled clinical
studies.
o        Communicate constantly with staff
members, making sure they understand the goals of the path and how
to use it.

Presbyterian kept the pathway design group small and focused,
including only two outpatient therapists, two physicians, an
inpatient mental health therapist and a quality improvement
specialist. The pathway came together in four 90-minute meetings.

Complexity Keeps Goals Focused

In tackling DID, the Presbyterian pathway creators confronted a
complex illness: Anxiety, depression and sleeplessness all are
involved, and a large number of DID patients also have substance
abuse problems.
The group settled on several goals, including lengths of stay of no
more than seven days and keeping patients from harming themselves
in medically serious ways. Dealing with past memory was deemed too
difficult to achieve in a seven-day stay.
Without a trail of clinical studies, the clinical judgment of
nurses and physicians continues to play a large role in a patient's
treatment, though the DID guideline identifies situations when
patients should be taken off the path.
The pathway rests in Presbyterian's existing computer system, and
standard order sets programmed into the network allow charge nurses
to move patients along the path without having physicians sign off
every time. That's been a hit with the nursing staff, Mahaffey
says: "They feel there's plenty of room for their professional
input."
The pathway is also becoming a motivational tool for DID patients.
"Most of them like that it's very concrete - they know what the
goals are and what's going to happen every day," she says.
The price tag for the pathway: A minimal consulting fee of less
than $500 for the outpatient therapist's time. Using the existing
computer system and doing planning work during regular staff hours
cost Presbyterian nothing.
Presbyterian's DID pathway has run into several serious obstacles,
Mahaffey admits. "We had people who didn't believe in it as a
disorder opposed to providers who specialize in it," she explains.
And the lack of clinical studies stymied efforts to standardize
drug treatment.
"If we had the studies to fall back on, that would help handle the
physicians who are more creative in their prescriptions," Mahaffey
says. "We had to be honest about the differences in opinion and
focus on the things we could agree on."
Contact Mahaffey at (505) 291-2522. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Breast Cancer Study Could Give Carve-Out Plans the Blues


Investigators hope to show that integrating mental and
medical health services will improve breast cancer treatment
outcomes.

A two-year clinical investigation uniting the American
Psychological Assn. and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts
could be good news for cancer patients but bad news for the managed
behavioral health carve-out concept.
The study's hypothesis: Integrating mental and medical health
services would improve outcomes for women with breast cancer and
save payers money.
The first of 120 women newly diagnosed with breast cancer will
enter the study within the next two months. Those patients will
then participate in a 16-week group managed psychological
intervention program conducted by Massachusetts Blues mental health
providers.
Mental health services won't be integrated into the medical
treatment program of a comparison group of cancer patients.
Instead, the group will follow the "existing standard of care," the
study's creators explain, accessing psychological services on their
own from a list of behavioral health resources.
Investigators will track immunological functioning, long-term
cancer recurrence and mortality within the two groups. Preliminary
results could come as early as this year.
The association expects those results will clearly demonstrate that
the early integration of psychological services into medical
treatment will improve clinical outcomes. That could give
scientific backing to the APA's argument that integrated delivery
systems should bring psychological services back into their menu of
primary and specialty medical services.
For information, call Jan Peterson of APA at (202) 336-5898, and
Susan Leahy of the Massachusetts Blues at (617) 832-4823.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Little-Fish CompCare Deals Could Trigger More Mergers


The refurbished national specialty care company has big
dreams for public sector mental health business, and that could
mean fewer independent players by year-end.

On the heels of recent acquisitions of two regional managed
behavioral health companies, relatively unknown Comprehensive Care
Corp. has nationwide ambitions in public sector managed mental
health care - ambitions that could accelerate consolidation in the
managed behavioral health arena.
After nearly dropping completely from market screens in the early
1990s with a failed push into hospital ownership and tax troubles
with federal authorities, Costa Mesa, Calif.-based CompCare
reshuffled top leadership and restructured operations. CompCare has
targeted $2 billion in business in 1996, and acquisitions will be
crucial to success.
Late last year, CompCare's managed behavioral care subsidiary,
Comprehensive Behavioral Care, purchased Health Management Services
of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The acquisition brought 350,000 covered
lives in the Midwest to CompCare, boosting total managed behavioral
care membership to 1.25 million, up from 400,000 a year earlier.
This month, CompCare bought Philadelphia-based Mustard Seed, adding
140,000 public sector covered lives in Pennsylvania to its managed
mental health division (MBH 2/8/96, p. 7).
Those moves expanded CompCare's managed behavioral care presence
out of the West and the South, and came on top of deals last fall
with HIP Health Plan of Pennsylvania and PCA Health Plans in Puerto
Rico.
The Mustard Seed deal strengthens CompCare's position at the
doorstep of the New Jersey/New York public sector mental health
market. The company is reportedly eyeing a large piece of public
sector business in the metropolitan New York region.

Mustard Seed, HMS Won't Be Last to Go

But industry observers wonder if the Medicaid managed mental health
care pool is large enough for yet another national player.
"[CompCare's] growth isn't going to disrupt the structure of the
market," says Dr. Michael Freeman, president of the Portola Valley,
Calif.-based Institute for Behavioral Healthcare. "They're just one
of several very focused organizations" in a market that will
continue to grow for several years.
Comprehensive Behavioral Care's numbers don't approach the more
than 15 million lives of Park Ridge, N.J.-based Merit Behavioral
Care Corp., for instance, or the 20 million lives covered by Value
Behavioral Health of Falls Church, Va.
Nevertheless, "There's an attitude [among the largest managed
behavioral health firms] of, 'We don't know who these people are,
but we're going to keep an eye on them,'" says Suzanne Gelber,
president of SGR Health and a senior research fellow at Brandeis
University's Institute for Health Policy. "They kind of came out of
nowhere."
Mustard Seed won't be the last of the managed behavioral health
care market's smaller players to look for larger friends, industry
observers predict.
"The small guys just have limited access to larger contracts,"
explains Mustard Seed Vice President for Business Development
Robert Bailey.
CompCare CEO Chriss Street concurs. "The mental health market tends
to be very fractured, with lots of 'mom and pop' providers," Street
says. "As the bar gets raised, those providers are going to be
ground out or bought out."
Among smaller fish mentioned by some observers as potential
takeover targets: Vista Health Plans of San Diego, with 470,000
covered lives.
But new acquisitions may not top the priority lists of big players
such as Value Behavioral Health and Magellan Health Services, which
are still digesting  previous purchases. 
"They now have to integrate their acquisitions, and that takes time
and effort," Freeman said.
For more details, call Matt Lepo for CompCare at (818) 789-9000,
Bailey at (215) 836-3205, Freeman at (415) 435-9821, and Gelber at
(203) 761-0860. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Group Captures Patient Views Using Electronic System


A computer-based patient functional assessment tool gave
a behavioral health group practice a window into its own operations
and greater stature with payers.

Using an electronic functional assessment tool, an Albuquerque,
N.M., mental health group practice pairs clinicians' observations
with comprehensive patient-generated information - and the
combination has attracted the notice of payers.
In the past, pencil and paper were Mesa Mental Health's standard
tools for capturing patient perceptions of service quality,
explains Gayle Zieman, chief clinical officer. Patient views on
their functional levels slipped by completely, leaving clinician
notes as the only word on functional status.
Standardized measures were nonexistent.
BEHAVIORisk, an electronic assessment tool created by Response
Healthcare Information Management of East Greenwich, R.I., changed
that. Using a survey instrument that the behavioral health
organization chooses, patients fill out a bubble-sheet
questionnaire, which is scanned into the organization's information
system.
Mesa's customized survey questions cover a range of issues,
including patient satisfaction, symptoms, functional levels and
even perceptions of physical health.
What Mesa providers found surprised them, Zieman says. Most new
patients expected their treatment would last less than 10 sessions,
lower than Mesa's  estimate.
The system also covers areas providers had often overlooked. "Some
of our clinicians never asked about chemical dependency," he says. 
The electronic patient survey does ask about chemical dependency,
alerting providers when the condition could be present.
The system's selling points: BEHAVIORisk uses Microsoft's Access
database, software Mesa already had licensed. An open-architecture
design allows the group practice to customize the software.
The creation of a central database proved most attractive, Zieman
says. "The ability to export our data into an aggregate pool is
very important."
Response is building a national data warehouse for patient
satisfaction information, functional improvement data and outcomes
measures. 
The database cuts across care divisions, gathering information from
HMOs, group practices and hospitals as well as behavioral health
providers.
Response eventually plans to shape performance measures from the
data.
The payoff: The ability to capture the patients' side of functional
assessment recently helped Mesa land a partnership deal with one of
Albuquerque's major behavioral health payers to track the treatment
of depression in primary care settings.
For details, call Zieman at (505) 291-5300, and James Spitzer of
Response at (401) 885-6900. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

HHS Rejects Medicaid Waiver For Mental Health-Only Plan


Montana may yet land a waiver for a com- prehensive
Medicaid managed care plan  that includes a special focus on
managed mental health.

While HHS recently shot down Montana's plans for a Medicaid managed
mental health care-only demonstration, state officials say a less
ambitious plan could earn a waiver by the fall.
State officials last summer asked for a Sec. 1115 Medicaid
demonstration waiver to begin the Montana Mental Health Access
Plan. The program would have moved Medicaid mental health services
into a single, statewide managed care program extending coverage to
residents with incomes up to 200% of the federal poverty level.
The demonstration would not have covered other health services for
newly eligible recipients.
That exclusion killed the plan's chance for a Sec. 1115 waiver, HHS
said in rejecting Montana's plan. Without a guarantee of basic
health services for the new group, HHS won't OK the project.
But HHS Secretary Donna Shalala told Gov. Marc Racicot (R) that
federal officials could fast-track an application for a Sec. 1915
waiver or a revised Sec. 1115 waiver proposal that expands services
to physical as well as mental health care.
That's sent state officials back to the drawing board. Pushing
ahead with the planned extension of mental health benefits without
federal matching funds isn't an option, says Dan Anderson,
administrator of the state's Division of Addictive and Mental
Disorders.
Alternate plans include pursuing a Sec. 1915 waiver to move current
Medicaid eligibles into a managed mental health plan and using
state funds to cover target groups such as severely mentally ill
adults and adolescents.
The state is also considering adding coverage of basic health
services for newly eligible beneficiaries to its original Sec. 1115
waiver application.
For more information, contact Anderson at  (406) 444-3969.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Consider Employer Concerns In Outcome Measure Design


Don't jump into outcomes measurement without understanding
the basics, one expert says, and always keep an eye out for
measures payers want.

Asking some basic questions before building a behavioral health
outcomes measurement system can keep an organization's efforts on
track and ensure the final product offers measures that payers will
value.
Robert Shomer, president and CEO of Encino, Calif.-based Hawthorne
Community Medical Group, cautions behavioral health organizations
to have the answers to the following questions before pushing
ahead:

o        Why are you doing this? Know your
target audience before you begin crafting an outcomes measurement
system. Is it for a report card? Will the results be used in
marketing? Does a payer want to see enrollee utilization trends?
Are you benchmarking your performance against other players?
o        Do you want to measure satisfaction
or outcomes? Know the difference, Shomer warns. Patient
satisfaction surveys are effective at uncovering needed
improvements. But the reasons why patient satisfaction levels are
down or why interventions fall flat will elude you. Outcomes
studies give behavioral health groups the power to track causality.
o        What level of precision do you want?
Greater detail can mean greater expense. For some, an inexpensive
patient satisfaction survey using postcards that patients fill out
at the office is enough.
o        Do you have the in-house talent to
build a system? If the pool of internal expertise is too shallow,
groups can turn to consultants or existing proprietary systems.
Don't dismiss a team effort with the psychiatry department of a
local university, Shomer says. They're extremely interested in the
impact of managed care, and they're more adept at real-world field
work than many behavioral care companies expect.

Move Beyond Clinical Quality Measures

Behavioral health groups shouldn't stop at clinical quality and
patient satisfaction measures. Anticipate the demands of employers,
for whom greater employee productivity on the job and stability at
home can be more important than clinical improvement, Shomer says.
Studies tracking functional status at work and within the home can
win and keep contracts.
"The therapist may be content, but for the family and the job, the
patient is just as dysfunctional," he says. "Employers aren't
interested in re-engineering employees' personalities - they want
people to be able to get back to work."
Other key information payers want: medical cost offset data. "If
you can show that you're providing lots of access, and because of
that patients don't end up in the hospital or in the primary care
physician's office inappropriately, that's extremely powerful,'
Shomer says.
For more information, contact Shomer at (818)  609-1761.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

POLICY & REPORTS


       New developments in managed mental
health care will be among the topics at the Feb. 28 meeting in
Washington of the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics
Subcommittee on Mental Health. The subcommittee will also discuss
new  research on alcohol abuse. Contact Gail Fisher of NCVHS at
(301) 436-7050.

       The Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration is seeking comments on its
requirement that states asking for a substance abuse prevention and
treatment block grant for 1997 report on their efforts to stop the
sale of tobacco to minors. SAMHSA estimates the additional
requirement will add only 24 hours to the application process. Send
comments to Deborah Trunzo,  SAMHSA Reports Clearance Officer,
Room 16-105, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Md.
20857.

       The first formal meeting between
managed behavioral health care companies and mental health consumer
groups ended with the creation of work groups and a promise to keep
talking. Nine executives of American Managed Behavioral Healthcare
Assn. member firms met early this month with 10 representatives of
national consumer organizations in a wide-ranging, two-day
discussion. The result: Three work groups covering issues such as
consumer education and the use of practice guidelines will produce
reports on their findings. For details, call Clarke Ross of AMBHA
at (202) 434-4565.

       The Consumer Managed Care Network,
a mental health consumer advocacy group, released its "Platform for
Action," outlining the basics of a consumer-friendly managed care
system. Among planks in the six-point platform: (1) service
delivery in the least-restrictive community-based setting;  (2)
"meaningful" consumer involvement in contract development, clinical
protocols and provider credentialing; (3) prevention of
cost-shifting to public mental health systems; and (4) access to
all quality assurance measurement findings. For more information,
contact Laura Van Tosh, CMCN coordinator, at (703) 739-9333.

       A report studying the relationship
between changes in Massachusetts' public mental health care system
and client deaths found that mortality rates among patients using
Department of Mental Health inpatient, case management or
residential services declined between the beginning of 1991 and the
end of 1993. But investigators refused to link the drop in
mortality rates to changes such as managed care, citing
insufficient data. Among recommendations in "Report on
Massachusetts Department of Mental Health Service Recipient
Mortality (1991-1993)": DMH should integrate existing data on
patients treated in department inpatient, case management or
residential services; and create a comprehensive data system to
track mental health patients treated through outpatient therapy,
clubhouses or emergency services.

       Managed behavioral health care firms
could get their first peek at the National Committee for Quality
Assurance's managed behavioral health care accreditation system as
early as April. NCQA says it will release the system for industry
comment this spring. For more information, contact Claire Sharda,
assistant director of accreditation policy,  at (202) 955-3500.

       A bill allowing managed care
enrollees to see psychologists and other specialists without a
referral is moving through the Indiana legislature. State Rep. Jeff
Espich (R) is sponsoring the legislation, H.B. 1289, which would
allow specialists to treat managed care plan patients who had not
gone through plan "gatekeepers." The Indiana House passed the bill,
which has been sent to committee in the Senate. But powerful
opponents, including the state's Chamber of Commerce and the
Indiana Manufacturers Assn., have lined up against the legislation.
With the legislative session set to end in mid-March, however, the
clock, not business groups, may snuff the bill's chances this year.
Call Espich's office at (317) 232-9606.

       More than four out of five employers
offered employee assistance programs in 1995, according to a survey
of 1,050 major U.S. businesses conducted by Hewitt Associates of
Lincolnshire, Ill. In 1990, 73% of employers had EAPs in place.
Five years later, the number had jumped to 84%, with most employers
contracting with an outside provider for EAP services. Contact
Monica Gallagher of Hewitt Associates at (847) 295-5000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

Credentialing Service May Go Electronic


As early as June, managed care companies could begin
tapping into the American Managed Behavioral Healthcare Assn.'s
provider credential verification service.

The National Behavioral Healthcare Credential
Verification Service should cut the cost and effort of checking out
potential network providers by offering behavioral health plans and
providers a clearinghouse for credential verification (MBH 1/11/96,
p. 5).

The association plans to sign a contractor by March and
have the system operational three months later, says Darcy
Gruttadaro, a consultant who helped develop the program.
The service will verify a physician's license, proof of
residency program, lack of major malpractice judgments and other
documents.

Still uncertain is the cost of using the system.
Proposed charges include a fee per verification  request, annual
fees or provider recredentialing charges.

The whole process could go on-line sometime down the
road, Gruttadaro predicts, with plans, providers and the
credentialing service linking together electronically.

Contact Gruttadaro at (703) 519-8539.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
MANAGED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH NEWS via NewsNet
February 22, 1996

INDUSTRY NEWS


       The popularity of specialty PPOs for
mental health and substance abuse benefits keeps growing, according
to a survey by Foster Higgins of New York. Findings: 20% of
employers offered behavioral care PPOs in 1995, up from 14% in
1994. Call Stephanie Poe of Foster Higgins at (212) 574-9034 to
obtain information on the study.

       Universal Health Services of King of
Prussia, Pa., which operates 29 behavioral and acute care
hospitals, posted a 24% increase in profits in 1995, to $35.5
million. Revenues rose to $931.1 million, thanks in part to the
purchase of four hospitals in 1995, including a behavioral health
facility. Call Universal at (610) 768-3300.

       Losses continued at New
Orleans-based Ramsay Managed Care, which announced a net loss of
$740,000 in the three months ended Dec. 31. Losses in the last six
months of 1995 totaled $1.5 million. The company blames significant
marketing and development costs in its managed behavioral health
business as well as start-up costs in Ramsay's HMOs. Ramsay offers
managed behavioral health services to 730,000 people in 13 states.
Contact Ramsay at (504) 585-0508.

       A terminated psychiatric facility
management contract helped push earnings down at Integrated Health
Services of Owings Mills, Md. IHS predicted fourth quarter profits
would come in at 52 cents a share, below earlier estimates. IHS
ended a contract with Crestwood Hospitals to manage 23 psychiatric
and long-term care facilities in California, blaming insufficient
Medi-Cal rate increases for undermining the arrangement's financial
viability. For more information, contact Susan Noonan at (212)
696-4455, ext. 203.

       Compass Information Services of King
of Prussia, Pa., sold the exclusive pharmaceutical rights to
distribute COMPASS, a mental health outcomes measurement system,
to Bristol-Myers Squibb of Princeton, N.J. Bristol-Myers Squibb
will incorporate COMPASS into its disease management program. More
than 4 million people are covered by mental health treatment
programs using the COMPASS system. Call Patrick Donohue of
Bristol- Myers Squibb at (609) 252-5685, and Kimberly Veitch of
Compass at (610) 992-7076.

       The Chicago Transit Authority
(CTA) tapped Green Spring Health Services of Columbia, Md., to
manage mental health and substance abuse benefits for 16,300 CTA
employees and retirees. The agreement, which began Feb. 1,
includes a precertification program for the CTA's utilization
management services. Green Spring's Illinois subsidiary manages
behavioral health for more than 1 million people. For more
information, contact Erin Somers of Green Spring at (410) 964-1593.

       Mental Health Management of McLean,
Va., will sell Oakview Treatment Center, which runs two in-patient
facilities. The unnamed buyer will pay $2.2 million for the center.
Mental Health Management has been eager to shed its seven
financially troubled hospitals and concentrate on the acquisition
and management of non-physician mental health professional
practices. Prior to the Oakview deal, the company found a buyer for
five of the facilities. Contact Mental Health Management at (703)
749-4612.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-29</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-222</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh28.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024139 text/html 25685
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:39:34 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:13 GMT
Content-length: 25496
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh28.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet <BR>
NOVEMBER 06, 1991<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>Bush, Congress Negotiate On Medicaid Funding Rules</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(375 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>States Liberally Choosing Hospitals That Treat Many Poor Patients</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(170 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Medicare/Medicaid</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(815 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Health Care Costs</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(295 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Managed Care</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(107 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Industry News</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(330 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Other Washington News</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(734 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>FINAL RULES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(200 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>PROPOSED RULES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(138 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>NOTICES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(403 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Bush, Congress Negotiate On Medicaid Funding Rules

With less than two months to go before a Jan. 1 deadline, Congress
and the Bush Administration are trying to hammer out a compromise
on state Medicaid fundraising. In the balance is nearly $5.5 billion in
federal Medicaid matching funds that go to states using taxes on
health care providers or "voluntary" donations by providers to raise
money. In September, HCFA published regulations that would wipe
out most tax and donation programs as of Jan. 1. On Oct. 31, the
agency published a final version of those rules that attempts to
"clarify" the intent of the September proposal. The new plan would
give some states until July 1, 1992, to eliminate tax programs.
Programs begun after Sept. 12, 1991, would not qualify for the
additional time and contribution programs must end by New Year's
day. The new rules are "too little, too late, and leave too many
questions unanswered," says Senate Finance Committee Chairman
Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX), who is pressing HCFA to withdraw them.
Pressure also is coming from the House, where the Commerce Health
Subcommittee has voted 16-6 to approve a bill (H.R.3595) blocking
the rules until Sept. 30, 1992. To compound matters, HCFA proposed
new regulations, also on Oct. 31, that would limit the number of
hospitals each state can designate as "disproportionate share." Such
facilities receive higher reimbursement, often paid for with tax or
donation funds. While HCFA's hard line stance provoked anger on
Capitol Hill, private negotiations are underway to iron out a
compromise. HCFA wants to cap states' ability to raise funds
through taxes at 20 percent of total state Medicaid funding; the
National Governors' Assn. says the cap should be 60 percent. HCFA
also wants to limit the number of disproportionate share hospitals,
some states have designated all of their facilities in that way --
and to cap the amount that can be paid to such providers. NGA says it
will accept no limits on states' ability to choose hospitals for that
status but members of the Senate Finance Committee are said to be
sympathetic to some limits. In case the negotiations fail, the full
Commerce Committee plans a Nov. 7 vote on the moratorium bill and
Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) has introduced a companion bill
(S.1886).




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

States Liberally Choosing Hospitals That Treat Many Poor Patients

The Bush Administration's charge that states are liberally
designating hospitals as Medicaid "disproportionate share" facilities
is borne out by a recent study by the Prospective Payment
Assessment Commission (ProPAC). "The trend among the state
Medicaid programs has been to provide more disproportionate share
payments to more hospitals," ProPAC says. In New York, for example,
ProPAC found all 260 general hospitals designated as
disproportionate share; in contrast, only one of Utah's 40 hospitals
was so designated. The move to upgrade more hospitals to that
status has accelerated as states have made use of provider taxes to
subsidize Medicaid. In Texas, for example, only a quarter of hospitals
were eligible in 1988; today, all hospitals in the state qualify. And
in Kentucky, the number of hospitals designated has tripled since
1988. In an October report, ProPAC says HHS should develop policies
to ensure that Medicaid money goes to hospitals that need it the
most. A disproportionate share hospital is supposed to have a high
volume of Medicaid and other low-income patients.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Medicare/Medicaid

Florida's Health Care Cost Containment Board wants the state
legislature to ban most referrals by doctors to facilities they own.
The ban on referrals would cover doctor-owned laboratories,
imaging, rehabilitation, and radiation therapy facilities. The broad
proposal, which would include all types of patients, would go well
beyond federal legislation aimed only at Medicare/Medicaid cases.
The board, which has studied the effect of physician ownership on
referrals, also wants to require greater disclosure of doctors'
investments in health care businesses. Thirteen states already limit
physician ownership; New Jersey and Michigan have the most
comprehensive laws. Under Florida's proposal, doctors with a stake
in nursing homes, hospitals, medical supply firms, home health
agencies, and ambulatory surgery centers would have to disclose
their financial interests to patients. "Obviously, we feel that very
stringent measures need to be taken to protect consumers in the
state," says board spokesman David Coley. The Florida Medical Assn.
says the study is flawed and the referral ban would hurt rural
patients.

Arizona, Maryland, and New Jersey Medicaid programs paid hospitals
more than the cost of treating Medicaid patients in 1989, says the
Prospective Payment Assessment Commission. Medicaid almost
covered costs in Indiana, Montana, and North Dakota. But Illinois and
Oregon paid less than half of costs -- 56 percent and 59 percent,
respectively. From 1980 to 1989, states in the East North Central,
West South Central, and Pacific regions of the U.S. cut Medicaid
hospital rates an average of 20 percent. In 1989, the two states
with all payer systems, Maryland and New Jersey, had two of the
highest Medicaid payments with costs at 104 and 102 percent,
respectively.

HHS says it will "aggressively" pursue fraud and abuse in the sale of
durable medical equipment. On Nov. 1 the Department proposed
regulations that would bar Medicare Part B carriers from shopping
neighboring states for the most lucrative Medicare payment, prohibit
unbundling of DME charges, and reduce the number of Medicare
carriers from 33 to 4. The latter is intended to reduce variation in
payment decisions. The government also will ask Congress for
authority to levy fines on miscreant suppliers. Today, HCFA has only
one choice: kick a supplier out of Medicare or allow its misbehavior
to continue. "We prefer to have an array of ways to deal with the
problem between benign neglect and the atom bomb," says HCFA
Administrator Gail Wilensky. Medicare pays about half of the annual
$2 billion DME bill, says the National Assn. of Medical Equipment
Suppliers, which is supporting bills (H.R.2534, S.1736) to set
certification and accreditation standards similar to Medicare's
conditions of participation.

A 6.5 percent reduction in Medicare physician fees is necessary to
"account for changes in consumer and physician behavior" that
otherwise would increase Medicare spending, says HCFA
Administrator Gail Wilensky in a letter to Congress. The 19-page
missive seeks to justify HCFA's plan to reduce fees under Medicare's
new fee schedule to offset behavioral changes. The American Medical
Assn. is pressing Congress to block that move before Jan. 1, claiming
it would cost doctors $7 billion over five years. In a Nov. 1 letter to
Congress, AMA says HCFA is presenting a "distorted view." Opponents
of the preemptive change argue that HCFA can recoup any lost
revenue by limiting future fee increases via the Medicare volume
performance standard. But Wilensky says the VPS is "simply
inadequate" for that purpose. HCFA plans to issue final rules later
this month; so far, Congress still seems unwilling to intervene.
Meanwhile, family physicians are trying to hold off implementation
of a new Medicare coding system for office visits. The new codes
aren't tested and will confuse physicians, says the American
Academy of Family Physicians.

To boost medical services for Medicare patients in rural areas, HCFA
will give $9.8 million to seven states and 51 rural hospitals. Funds
will enable states and health care facilities to form networks
through communication and transport systems to improve access to
primary care and emergency services in rural areas. The states are
California, Colorado, Kansas, New York, North Carolina, South Dakota,
and West Virginia.

The Henry Kaiser Family Foundation is spending $5 million over the
next five years to study Medicaid. The foundation has designated a
15-member panel to study problems with the state-federal program
for the poor under the leadership of New York State Assembly
Majority Leader James Tallon. The panel will examine the
effectiveness and costs of the program and address the role of
federal and state government to recommend a future agenda. Kaiser
also has lined up an impressive staff, headed by Johns Hopkins
University assistant professor Diane Rowland, and including
Georgetown University's Judith Feder, and RAND Corp.'s Steven Long.
Commission members include: Parkland Memorial Hospital CEO Ron
Anderson, MD; former HHS Asst. Secretary for Health Edward Brandt,
MD; California Health Commissioner Molly Coye, MD; and Hopkins
professor Karen Davis.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Health Care Costs

The rate of increase in community hospital expenses dipped to a
five-year low for the first half of 1991, says the American Hospital
Assn. The AHA panel survey of 2,000 hospitals found that a 9.3
percent hike in total expenses, down from nearly 11.3 percent in
1990. Moderate interest rates, a shallow climb in inflation, and
greater use of more part time workers helped hospitals hold the
line, AHA says. The 3.4 percent hike in capital costs was less than
half of last year's 8.9 percent rate and dramatically down from 1982
when it reached 27.4 percent.

Congress should set federal standards for long term care insurance
if states don't strengthen consumer protection laws, says the
General Accounting Office. While some laws are stronger, many
states haven't adopted standards developed by the National Assn. of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), GAO's Janet Shikles told the House
Commerce Consumer Protection Subcommittee Oct. 24. Prominently
missing are guaranteed policy renewal and prohibitions against
exclusion of Alzheimer's patients. Insurers are doing a better job of
adopting standards, but they need to do better, GAO noted. Shikles
also faulted NAIC, arguing that its model long term care insurance
law should contain uniform definitions, improved methods for
determining eligibility, and greater protection against abusive
marketing practices.

Life and health insurers paid $1.2 billion in AIDS-related claims in
1990, more than four times the level in 1986, reports the Health
Insurance Assn. of America and the American Council on Life
Insurance. The 1990 estimate brings the industry's total in AIDS-
related claims to more than $3.5 billion since 1986. The latest
estimated total for 1990 -- $1.2 billion -- is four times the $292.2
million estimated for 1986. Private health insurers write checks for
about 40 percent of AIDS-related health care costs.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Managed Care

More than a third of psychiatric and substance abuse hospital
admissions are unnecessary, says a new study. Researchers at Blue
Cross & Blue Shield of Michigan are recommending a prospective
payment system for psych/substance abuse hospitalizations, along
with aggressive preadmission review and case management.
Researchers randomly selected 539 cases drawn from 61 hospitals
in southeastern Michigan covering services delivered in 1987 and
1988. Nearly 40 percent of 425 mental illness admissions were
judged unnecessary, while nearly 60 percent of 114 substance abuse
admissions were so viewed. Authors speculate that psychiatrists
are biased toward a "medical model" and insurers provide an
additional financial incentive for hospitalizing patients.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Industry News

The FDA would have additional tools to combat criminal fraud in the
generic drug industry under a bill (H.R.2454) approved by the House
Oct. 31. FDA would be able to debar for at least one year firms and
individuals convicted or implicated in bribery, fraud, false
statements, or other crimes that undermine the FDA approval
process. The bill also would establish penalties of as much as
$250,000 per individual and $1 million per company and permit the
temporary denial of product approvals for up to 18 months. Another
18 months would be tagged on for bribery and fraud. Companies under
suspicion could have their products suspended unless they could
prove their products were untainted. The bill also would revoke
illegally obtained generic drug approvals and provide standby
investigational authority for the HHS Inspector General. A similar
bill (S.1164) by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) is pending.

Medical device manufacturers want to quash an insurance industry
effort to enlarge the government's medical technology assessment
system. Four health insurance groups have offered to chip in $1
million to HHS' Office of Technology Assessment. Currently budgeted
at about $1 million, the office evaluates an average of 20 types of
technology each year. The extra money would double the reviews and
make the government a bigger player in technology dissemination.
But the Health Industry Manufacturers Assn. says the plan would
create a monolithic approach to technology assessment and could
"kill promising technology and deter innovators from going forward
with certain technologies." Insurers say the current technology
assessment process -- which draws on the expertise of some 80
different organizations -- often is conflicting and leaves insurers in
limbo. Insurers are looking for "a solid assessment," says Prudential
Insurance VP Dan Dragalin, MD. The insurers want to start the new
effort in January, but HHS official J. Jarrett Clinton, MD, hasn't
decided whether to accept the offer. Provider groups such as the
American Medical Assn. also are deciding whether to sign on with
the insurers.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

Other Washington News

The long-awaited veto showdown over abortion counseling at family
planning clinics is imminent. Congressional negotiators agreed to a
one-year prohibition on implementation of regulations that ban
abortion counseling, a move President Bush has promised to veto.
The legislative ban appears in a $207 billion fiscal 1992 funding bill
for HHS and the Departments of Education and Labor (H.R.2707). That
bill includes significant increases in spending on biomedical
research into cancer and Alzheimer's disease. The National
Institutes of Health (NIH) would receive $9 billion in FY92, including
$1.9 billion for the National Cancer Institute and $387 million for
the National Aging Institute, of which $15 million would go toward
Alzheimer's research. To stay under statutory spending limits,
lawmakers agreed to defer spending $575 million of the NIH total
until the last day of the federal fiscal year. Congress took similar
action on several other program areas in the bill, which also could
provoke Bush to wield his veto pen. If Bush does veto the bill, it will
take two thirds of both the House and Senate to override him; to date
Bush never has been overridden. As part of the final bill, conferees
upped funding for HHS' "Healthy Start" initiative to prevent infant
mortality. The bill includes $75 million in FY92, triple the FY91
total but well below the $138.7 million Bush requested. Of that
total, $40 million would immediately go to 15 U.S. cities and
counties; another $25 million would be paid out on the last day of
FY92; and $10 million would go to community health centers (CHCs).
The bill also hikes CHC funding from $478.2 million in FY91 to
$527.2 million in FY92 and raises funding for the maternal and child
health block grant to $650 million, compared with FY91's $587
million. Some cities will also get more money to deal with AIDS.
Other highlights: the Medicare contractor budget went from $1.5
billion in FY91 to $1.7 billion in FY92, but $257 million of that is in
a contingency reserve. Another $150 million is slated for state
survey and certification programs with no requirement for "user
fees."

Hoping to achieve at least partial health care reform, a pair of
powerful congressional Democrats are pressing efforts to reform
the dysfunctional small group health insurance market. House Ways
& Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D-IL) and Senate
Finance Committee chief Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX) announced Oct. 24
that they will push for action in 1992. While neither is forsaking
comprehensive reform, both think insurance changes can get White
House backing. "My hope is that this legislation will end a
frustrating impasse," says Rostenkowski. Their bill would set
minimum standards for small firms, ban medical underwriting, and
force renewal of policies. It also would limit how much premiums
could vary and would set parameters on how much insurers could
charge business. Rostenkowski would require insurers to offer
Medicare's benefit package plus new prevention coverage. Bentsen
plans to design his own benefit package. Rostenkowski would have
HHS set and enforce standards, while Bentsen would leave it to state
insurance commissioners. The most expensive element of the plan
would hike the 25 percent tax deduction for the self-insured to 100
percent. That would cost $7.5 billion over five years. Bentsen wants
it done immediately; Rostenkowski would phase it in.

Funding for mental health and substance abuse research would
increase under a bill (H.R.3698) introduced Nov. 1 by Rep. Henry
Waxman (D-CA). The measure also would retain the current structure
of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse & Mental Health Administration
(ADAMHA), despite an Administration proposal to shift research
programs to the National Institutes of Health. Waxman, who chairs
the House Commerce Health Subcommittee, would authorize $525
million for mental health research in fiscal 1992 compared to
$483.8 million spent in FY91. His bill also would authorize $293
million in FY92 for drug abuse research up from $265.2 million in
FY91; and fund alcohol research at $160 million FY92, up from $143
million in FY91. In August, the Senate approved an ADAMHA bill
(S.1306) that would move the ADAMHA research components to NIH.
Waxman's bill would create a new state-run community mental
health services block grant.

Following are summaries of health-related regulations and notices
that have appeared in the "Federal Register." To order individual
copies of the "Federal Register,"end $1.50 to: Superintendent of
Documents, GPO, Washington DC 20402.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

FINAL RULES

Final rule expanding the Medicare swing-bed program to encompass
rural hospitals with 50 to 99 beds and establishing requirements for
swing-bed hospitals with more than 49 beds. Effective Nov. 21. FR
10-22-91, p. 54539. HHS/HCFA, Thomas Hoyer, 301/966-4607.

Final rule amending Medicare regulations on prepaid health care.
Effective Nov. 18. FR 10-17-91, p. 51984. HHS/HCFA, Luisa Iglesias,
202/245-0383.

Final rule changing the existing CHAMPUS day limits and waiver
criteria for acute inpatient psychiatric care, introducing new day
limits for residential treatment center care, and protecting against
economic interests in referrals to inpatient facilities by health care
professionals. Effective Nov. 18. FR 10-18-91, p. 52193. DOD/OS,
Stephen Knight, 703/697-8975.

Final rule establishing a mandatory preadmission authorization
program for mental health services under CHAMPUS. Effective Nov.
18. FR 10-18-91, p. 52198. DOD/OS, Stephen Knight, 703/697-8975.

Final rule requiring each health care provider who administers a
particular vaccine set forth in the Vaccine Injury Table to provide a
copy of the vaccine information pamphlets. Effective Apr. 15, 1992.
FR 10-15-91, p. 51798. HHS/PHS, Walter Orenstein, 404/639-1880.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

PROPOSED RULES

List of priority regulations being developed by HHS, the regulation
identification number, and, if available, the date of the last, or next
anticipated action. FR 10-21-91, p. 53262. HHS, Gloria Ellis,
202/245-6824.

Proposed rule establishing Medicare requirements for designating
certain hospitals as Essential Access Community Hospitals (EACHs)
or Rural Primary Care Hospitals (RPCHs), conditions that an RPCH
must meet to participate in Medicare, rules for Medicare payment
for services furnished by EACHs and RPCHs. Comments due Dec. 24,
1991. FR 10-24-91, p. 55382. HHS/HCFA, Thomas Hoyer, 301/966-
4607.

FDA is reopening the period for submission of comments on the
proposed rule amending the tentative final monograph for over-the-
counter topical acne drug products to Nov. 7. FR 10-17-91, p. 52008.
HHS/FDA, William Gilbertson, 301/295-8000.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
HEALTH MANAGER'S UPDATE via NewsNet
NOVEMBER 06, 1991

NOTICES

Notice providing the list of laboratories currently certified to meet
standards of Subpart C of Mandatory Guidelines for Federal
Workplace Drug Testing Programs. FR 10-22-91, p. 54582.
HHS/ADAMHA, National Institute of Drug Abuse, Drug Testing
Section, 301/443-6014.

Notice announcing administrative hearing to reconsider the decision
to disapprove Minnesota State Plan Amendment, a list of Medicaid
obstetrical and pediatric payment rates and data alleging at least 50
percent of obstetrical and pediatric practitioners are full Medicaid
participants. FR 10-23-91, p. 54876. HHS/HCFA, Docket Clerk,
301/597-3013.

HRSA is accepting applications for fiscal 1992 grants for programs
for physician assistants. Comments due Nov. 20. FR 10-21-91, p.
52552. HHS/HRSA, Judy Bowen, 301/443-6960.

HRSA announces the filing of the Maternal and Child Health Research
Grants Review Committee annual report with the Library of
Congress. FR 10-25-91, p. 55330. HHS/HRSA, Gontran Lamberty,
301/443-2190.

OASH is accepting applications for a continuing cooperative
agreement with the Association of School of Public Health. FR 10-
21-91, p. 52551. HHS/OASH, James Harrell, 202/245-7611.

NIH is seeking agreements with companies for the marketing and
commercialization of cancer information products and services of
the National Cancer Institute to community-based practicing
oncologists via an Integrated Clinical Workstation. FR 10-24-91, p.
55131. Robert Esterhay, 301/496-8880.

Notice outlining the three sets of rates in connection with the
recovery, from tortiously liable third persons, of the cost of
hospital medical care and treatment furnished by the U.S. FR 10-16-
91, p. 51940. OMB, Richard Darman, 202/395-4840.

OSAP is accepting grant applications for projects to enable
communities to implement and systematically study approaches to
prevent and reduce alcohol and other drug abuse through the
development of partnerships of multiple agencies and organizations
at the local level. Deadline is Jan. 20, 1992. FR 10-17-91, p. 52307.
HHS/ADAMHA, OSAP, 301/443-9438.

HHS/OS, self-evaluation and recordkeeping required by regulations
implementing Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (0990-
0124). FR 10-18-91, p. 52271. HHS OS, Reports Clearance Officer,
202/619-0511.

Notice announcing an action taken by the NIH Director under the NIH
Guidelines for Research involving Recombinant DNA Molecules from
May 7, 1986. Effective Dec. 15. FR 10-15-91, p. 51784. HHS/NIH,
Bernadine Healy, 301/496-2433.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-30</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-264</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh16.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024230 text/html 40638
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:40:42 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:07 GMT
Content-length: 40449
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh16.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet <BR>
January 9, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>PHYSICIANS SUE N.Y. HEALTH DEPARTMENT OVER HMO CONTRACTS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(568 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>EEOC, ERISA PLANS STRUGGLE OVER ADA INTERPRETATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(855 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><A HREF = "#3"><LI>PA. BILLS WOULD RESTRICT MCOS' ABILITY TO DENY PAYMENT FOR&nbsp;ER VISITS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(182 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>AWP, PATIENT CHOICE BILLS ANTICIPATED IN OHIO, MICH., IDAHO</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(720 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>PENDING ANY WILLING PROVIDER LEGISLATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(7 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><A HREF = "#6"><LI>CAPITALCARE TOLD TO RECONSIDER DENIAL OF AIDS PATIENT'S&nbsp;CLAIM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(885 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>ERISA KEEPS A HOLD ON FEDERAL REFORM EFFORTS, REPORT SAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(243 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>FLA. COMP LAWYERS PUSH FOR PATIENT CHOICE AMENDMENT</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(593 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>GAO:  ARIZ. POSTS SAVINGS WITH MEDICAID MANAGED CARE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(592 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>AMENDMENTS POSE THREAT TO 'TARGETED' HEALTH REFORM BILL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(624 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><LI>ORE. MCOS PREPARING TO FIGHT PLAN TO BAN CAPITATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(466 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

PHYSICIANS SUE N.Y. HEALTH DEPARTMENT OVER HMO CONTRACTS

A group of physicians, claiming that the New York State
Department of Health failed to review an HMO contract, has
sued the department in an effort to force it to conduct the
required reviews.

The 1,000-member League of Physicians and Surgeons, a New
York City-based advocacy group, said in the suit that the
state agency should not have approved the contract offered
to physicians by ChoiceCare, a Melville, N.Y.-based HMO,
because of a physician "gag rule" and a lack of appeal
rights in the contract.

However, the underlying message in the lawsuit was that the
agency must begin following the rules and review all
contracts presented to it, as required by state law, says
league executive director Yvonne Archer.

"The Department of Health is supposed to approve each new
generation of a contract and evaluate it for any negative
effect" on physicians and/or patients, Archer says.  "That
never seems to get done, so we decided to force the issue.
This puts them on notice that they'd better do what they're
supposed to do."

The group particularly objected in its lawsuit to what it
termed a "gag rule" in the contract, which Archer says
prohibits physicians from discussing the health plan with
patients.  The group also objected to what it termed a lack
of appeal rights for physicians in the contract.

"The gag rule is to keep patients in the dark so they don't
switch plans," said Archer in an interview with Managed Care
Law Outlook.  "What we're talking about is doctors' ability
to freely express to patients any concerns" they might have
about the managed care organization in question, Archer
says.

The league is seeking a judicial order that would force the
health department to review contracts and would require
ChoiceCare to remove or modify the clause that Archer terms
a gag rule.

Health department officials declined comment on the lawsuit.

However, ChoiceCare Senior Vice President of Marketing John
Kaegi says the clause is not a gag rule at all.  "It
protects the doctors as well as us," he says.

The clause, about one paragraph long, states that ChoiceCare
and its contracting physicians agree to protect the rights
of confidentiality of both parties, along with plan members
and patients, Kaegi says.

After the suit was filed, "We considered removing it, but it
wasn't necessary," Kaegi said in an interview.  "Everybody
who's looked at the thing says there's no way it can be
interpreted as a gag order."

Instead of removing the phrase, the managed care
organization decided to provide additional education to
physicians about its meaning, in the form of verbal guidance
from plan representatives in the field, Kaegi says.  On the
subject of appeal rights, Kaegi says the health plan has
"two very distinct appeals processes," one for providers and
one for members.  However, those procedures are spelled out
in an addendum to the physician contract, which the league
"apparently didn't have" when it filed the lawsuit, Kaegi
says.

Kaegi says ChoiceCare has no objection to health department
review of contracts.  "We would encourage the Department of
Health to consider very carefully all language in all
contracts," he says.  "Certainly, the situation of their not
reviewing all contracts is not our doing."

For more information on the lawsuit against the New York
Department of Health, call Archer at (212)768-0605 and Kaegi
at (516)694-4000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

EEOC, ERISA PLANS STRUGGLE OVER ADA INTERPRETATION

Federal officials' unpredictable interpretations of the
Americans with Disabilities Act are frustrating self-insured
employers' efforts to design healthcare benefits packages,
some industry observers say.  And the federal agency
crafting the final rules isn't likely to clear up the
confusion any time soon.

"We don't have any easy answers," Peggy Mastroianni,
division director with the federal Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission office of legal counsel, told
attendees at the ERISA Industry Committee quarterly meeting
in December.  "We're just starting to develop final guidance
in this area."  She offered no date for when those final
rules will come out.

However, Stephanie Kanwit, vice president for health claims
and litigation at Aetna Life and Casualty Co., blasts the
EEOC for its "attempt to micromanage the American healthcare
system."

Employers are suffering because the rules are not
predictable and provide a powerful disincentive to providing
healthcare benefits, she says.

"In the words of the statute, Congress believed that people
with disabilities are a discrete and insular minority.
That's not what the EEOC is doing," Kanwit says.  EEOC's
interpretation of the ADA ignores legislative history and
ignores legal interpretations of similar anti-discrimination
statutes, she says.

"I feel [the EEOC's] interpretation is counter-productive to
the goals of the agency," she says.

"I have to assume that Congress knew what it was doing when
it passed the ADA," Kanwit says.  "I have to assume that it
does not automatically void ERISA.  The two can co-exist,
but not in the way the EEOC believes."

In the ADA, Congress failed to make clear whether the new
law applied to employer-sponsored health plans, Mastroianni
says.  "What we have tried to do is to provide rules for
evaluating benefits when trying to cut costs," she says.

The EEOC issued interim guidance in 1993 that indicated the
ADA would apply if a coverage limitation applied to a
specific disability.  For example, Mastroianni says, a
blanket pre-existing condition exclusion is not disability-
based, nor are general exclusions of experimental drugs or
limits on pharmaceuticals or X-rays.

In general, less-favorable treatment of mental
health/nervous conditions also is not disability-based
because it involves a wide variety of dissimilar conditions,
she says.

Coverage limits or exclusions that do not affect people with
or without disabilities, or people with a wide variety of
dissimilar conditions, could become subject to the ADA, she
says.

"What is the consequence of a disability-based distinction?"
she asks.  "If it is [disability-based], the employer has to
explain why it is not a subterfuge to evade the purpose of
the ADA.  In cases like this, the burden ought to be on the
employer."

Case law leaves few clues for ERISA plans to follow,
employers find

There has been very little relevant case law on the issue of
disability-based discrimination within health plans,
Mastroianni says, adding, "The law in this area is still
developing."

Employers are having a tough time determining how the ADA
affects their benefits packages, says Kevin Anderson,
director of healthcare initiatives with General Motors Corp.
"With the passage of the ADA, the question is:  What is a
disability under the ADA, and what does it apply to?"
Anderson says.

"Our plan does include limitations on mental health and
substance abuse -- limited in terms of the number of visits
reimbursed," Anderson says, adding that some interpretations
of the ADA would place General Motors in non-compliance with
the law.

Another example in GM's benefits package involves speech
therapy, Anderson says.  The benefit applies only to
children younger than age six, and he says the same question
applies:  Does the ADA impact that benefit?

A third example, Anderson says, is language denying coverage
for experimental procedures, including bone marrow
transplants for women suffering from breast cancer or
patients with AIDS.  In a recent court case, Henderson v.
Bodine Aluminum, the federal 8th Circuit Court of Appeals,
St. Louis, ordered an employer to cover an experimental
breast cancer treatment after the plaintiff alleged that the
denial violated the ADA by denying benefits for breast
cancer but not for other forms of cancer.  The appeals court
returned the case to the district court for a full hearing.

Mastroianni says her office didn't necessarily agree with
the decision in Henderson v. Bodine Aluminum.

"If it's okay to have a general exclusion of experimental
treatments, then why do we have cases like this?" she asks.
"We're looking at it differently.  If we see in a case that
the standards for [coverage of] high-dosage chemotherapy in
breast cancer are different than for other [cancers], the
question then becomes whether exclusions for experimental
treatment are being applied in a discriminatory way."

"Henderson v. Bodine Aluminum is terrible law," Kanwit adds,
noting that in the case, Karen Henderson ultimately was
included in the clinical trial for the experimental
treatment, but ended up in the placebo group, not in the
group receiving the actual treatment.

For additional information on the ADA and ERISA plans,
contact the ERISA Industry Committee at (202)789-1400.

y  Henderson v. Bodine Aluminum, No. 95-2469 (8th Cir. June
16, 1995)




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

PA. BILLS WOULD RESTRICT MCOS' ABILITY TO DENY PAYMENT FOR
ER VISITS

Pennsylvania managed care plans would have to foot the bill
for an enrollee's out-of-network emergency room care if a
"reasonable person" would believe the symptoms indicated an
emergency, under legislation recently introduced by two
Keystone State lawmakers.

Acting in response to consumer and provider complaints about
MCOs refusing to reimburse enrollees for certain emergency
room services, state Sens. Roy Afflerbach (D-Lehigh-
Northampton) and Jim Gerlach (R-Chester County) introduced
companion legislation Jan. 4 that the two say will better
regulate and define Pennsylvania MCOs' responsibilities.

Gerlach's S.B. 1356 contains the same language as
legislation introduced in the House by Rep. John A. Lawless
(R-Audubon).  Both apply a "reasonable person" standard to
enrollees who seek emergency care.  Regardless of the final
diagnosis, if it is determined that a reasonable person
experiencing the symptoms described by an enrollee seeking
care would believe it to be an emergency, the patient would
be reimbursed.

The bills will be assigned to committees after state
lawmakers return to work Jan. 22.  For details, call Sen.
Afflerbach's office at (717)787-1349 and Sen. Gerlach's
office at (717)787-1398.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

AWP, PATIENT CHOICE BILLS ANTICIPATED IN OHIO, MICH., IDAHO

Any willing provider legislation and its newer cousins,
freedom of choice and patient protection acts, already have
been introduced in at least 21 states, and it's likely that
the proposals will spark spirited fights between bill
proponents and managed care forces in at least a few of
those states, industry officials say.

It's difficult to say where the AWP "hot spots" might be,
says Herb Schultz, director of state advocacy for the Group
Health Association of America/American Managed Care and
Review Association.  The group is tracking 48 bills,
including carryover legislation from 1995.

"We're at the beginning of it," he says.  "In the next
couple of months we'll see where the trend is.  We expect,
like last year, to see any willing provider, freedom of
choice and other anti-managed care bills in many states."

Schultz adds that the last couple of years have shown that
managed care forces are capable of defeating those bills
when they crop up.  "I'm confident we will be able, as an
industry, to bring information to state legislators that
they need to see on this legislation," he says.

Last year, any willing provider-type bills were introduced
in more than 20 states, Schultz says.  However, only two of
those became law:  In Texas, legislators approved a
pharmacy-only any willing provider bill but vetoed a highly
regulatory patient protection bill, and in Arkansas, a broad
any willing provider bill was enacted.  Several insurers are
challenging the Arkansas law on the grounds that it violates
federal law.

Managed care foes moving away from AWP approach, trying
patient protection tack

The trend appears to be moving away from any willing
provider bills toward broader patient protection measures,
industry analysts say.

More states are considering patient protection act-style
legislation than "pure" any willing provider bills, says Guy
D'Andrea, director of state services for GHAA/AMCRA.

"Patient protection act-type legislation touches on a
variety of subject areas beyond provider participation," he
says.  "It usually focuses more on the process by which
plans make decisions on provider participation, often
stopping short of requiring participation."

However, "there's sometimes a very fine line between patient
protection acts and any willing provider legislation,"
D'Andrea says.

In addition, any willing provider bills that are introduced
often have a broader focus than they might have a few years
ago, D'Andrea says.  "In the past, they focused on
pharmacy," he says.  "Now, it's more common to see an any
willing provider bill that just says 'any willing provider'
[without specifying types of providers].  Obviously, the
more providers you bring under the umbrella, the bigger the
impact on managed care."

Although it's difficult to determine where any willing
provider-type legislation might make progress this year,
managed care forces in several states already have geared up
to fight it:

y  The Association of HMOs in Michigan met last fall with
state Rep. John Jamian (R), who is interested in drafting
patient protection act legislation.  According to the group,
Jamian assured managed care representatives that he did not
want to write an anti-managed care bill, and said the
legislation would not be a vehicle for an any willing
provider proposal.

However, the lawmaker did express concern about
authorization for out-of-panel providers within managed care
organizations, the HMO group said.

The legislation still is being written, according to a
spokeswoman for the group.

y  In Ohio, businesses, insurers, consumer and labor
organizations have formed a coalition to defeat any willing
provider legislation (Managed Care Law Outlook, November
1995).

The group, which calls itself the Coalition for Managed
Care, will oppose legislative initiatives before the Ohio
General Assembly this year.

Several committees already are considering AWP bills,
according to the group.

y  In Idaho, the Idaho Medical Society has distributed a
draft of a proposed patient protection act to industry
leaders for comments.  The draft does not include AWP
language, but does have a requirement that all managed care
entities, except those exempt from federal income tax under
IRS code section 501(c)(3) or (4), offer enrollees a point-
of-service option.

For additional information, contact D'Andrea and Schultz at
(202)778-3200.  Contact the Association of HMOs in Michigan
at (517)371-3181.  Contact the Idaho Medical Association at
(208)344-7888.  Contact the Ohio Coalition for Managed Care
at (800)360-2065.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

PENDING ANY WILLING PROVIDER LEGISLATION

(See original issue)

Source:  GHAA/AMCRA




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

CAPITALCARE TOLD TO RECONSIDER DENIAL OF AIDS PATIENT'S
CLAIM

Managed care organizations need to follow the rules spelled
out in ERISA when making coverage decisions on patients'
claims.  That's the message from a U.S. court of appeals'
decision in Bernstein v. CapitalCare, a legal expert says.

The Dec. 4 decision, from the U.S. Court of Appeals of the
4th Circuit, Richmond, Va., said that CapitalCare, an HMO
subsidiary of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of the National
Capital Area, Washington, D.C., had failed to take all
medical evidence into account when denying coverage for out-
of-area hospital care for Jeffrey Bernstein, an AIDS patient
from Washington, D.C.  The court also found that CapitalCare
had not followed procedures spelled out in ERISA for the
denial of coverage.

The court remanded the case to the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia, Alexandria, with
instructions for CapitalCare to reconsider coverage for
Bernstein's care, this time considering all medical
evidence.  However, the court left it up to CapitalCare
whether to cover the hospital care in question.

The case involved medical care Bernstein, who was an
enrollee in CapitalCare, received in New York in May 1992.

Bernstein was diagnosed as HIV-positive in 1986.  In
February 1992, while in New York, Bernstein was committed to
a psychiatric facility and treated for dementia.  Upon
discharge, Bernstein stayed at his brother Philip's home for
a short time before returning with his brother to his home -
- and to CapitalCare's service area -- in Washington.  He
then went back to New York with his brother.

Several days later, Bernstein began exhibiting stroke-like
symptoms and was taken to the emergency room in Manhattan's
New York Hospital.  He was admitted to the hospital the next
day, and hospital records indicated his hospitalization was
for CNS lymphoma, a form of brain cancer.  He was
transferred to a healthcare facility in Virginia in July
1992 and died a day after arriving.

CapitalCare denied coverage for Bernstein's second
hospitalization, citing his location outside the MCO's
service area and its policy of not providing benefits when
the need for care could have been foreseen.

Bernstein's brother immediately protested the coverage
denial and later took the case to the district court, which
found that "it was reasonably foreseen that [Bernstein]
would need acute medical attention."  The court also found
that it wasn't necessary for the patient to know the
specific illness for which he might be hospitalized.  The
court granted summary judgment to CapitalCare.

The appeals court, however, found that CapitalCare denied
care without following the requirements outlined in ERISA.
In addition, the court said, that denial decision preceded
the arrival of some of Bernstein's medical and hospital
records, meaning that clinicians at CapitalCare could not
have taken that information into account when denying
coverage.

"The initial issue in this appeal is whether the
administrative record before CapitalCare at the time of the
benefit determination contained sufficient evidence to allow
the district court adequately to assess the reasonableness
of the plan's decision," the decision says.  "This threshold
inquiry ensures the plan beneficiary that he or she receives
procedural fairness under the plan and that the plan
administrator's decisions are principled and deliberate."

Unfortunately, the information in the CapitalCare
administrative record did not meet that standard, the court
said.

"The administrative record before CapitalCare at the time it
denied benefits for Jeffrey's hospitalization fails to
adequately document the administrator's decisional process,"
the decision said.  "Indeed, CapitalCare's administrative
record contained very little evidence at all."

The court noted that, at the time of the initial denial, the
administrative record contained only four items, including
phone logs detailing calls from Bernstein's brother during
the illness and information about Bernstein's stay at the
psychiatric facility.

"These documents provide little support for CapitalCare's
initial determination that Jeffrey's need for care was
reasonably foreseeable," the court said.  "Furthermore, no
one at CapitalCare had spoken to Jeffrey's physicians in New
York to ascertain the complete circumstances of his
hospitalization."

CapitalCare maintains that it reviewed the denial after
receiving Bernstein's medical records from New York;
however, the appeals court said that the administrative
record contains no documentation of this review.  The
appeals court returned the case to the district court with
instructions to tell CapitalCare to take another look at its
denial.

The case provides notice to managed care organizations that
they must follow the procedures spelled out in ERISA before
denying coverage, says attorney Charles Steele of Foley &
Lardner in Washington.

However, Steele notes that the court "didn't get into some
of the meatier issues, such as the rights of people with
AIDS to move."

The appeals court did say that "One may presume that at some
point in the progression of an AIDS patient's disease, the
need for hospitalization or acute medical care, because of
some AIDS-related complication, would become foreseeable."

But the court concluded that "such complex medical
determinations are peculiarly within the ken of medical
professionals, not federal judges.  Under a deferential
standard of review, the district court's role is limited to
determining whether those findings are supported by
substantial evidence."

For more information, call Steele at (202)672-5300 or
Richard Carter, of Huggins Carter & Coleman, at (703)684-
3444.

y  Bernstein v. CapitalCare, No. 94-2448 (4th Cir. 1994)




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

ERISA KEEPS A HOLD ON FEDERAL REFORM EFFORTS, REPORT SAYS

The Employee Retirement Income Security Act will continue to
be an important influence on private-sector health plans as
legislative initiatives, the healthcare market and legal
doctrine evolve, concludes a new report.

The report, by the Washington, D.C.-based Employee Benefit
Research Institute, says that ERISA, which greatly
influenced debate on President Clinton's healthcare reform
proposals, also is at the center of congressional proposals
for health insurance reform.

State versus federal regulation also is a central point of
contention in the debate over Medicare reform, the report
says.

"The health market has changed fundamentally since ERISA was
enacted in 1974, and the regulatory role of Washington
versus the states is now being reexamined," says EBRI
president Dallas Salisbury, who adds, "The outcome will
affect the health insurance of over 160 million
individuals."

The report includes three sections:  an overview of ERISA
and health regulation by Peter Schmidt of Arnold and Porter;
a section on multi-employer plans by Judy Mazo of the Segal
Company; and a section on ERISA and state health reform
written by Kala Ladenheim of the Intergovernmental Health
Policy Project.

The report examines the following issues:
y  ERISA's broad pre-emptive effect;
y  The changing relationship between three categories of
state health initiatives -- insurance mandates, medical
high-risk pools and uncompensated care pools; and
y  ERISA's effect on the rise in the number of self-funded
plans.

Copies of the study are available for $25.  Call (410)516-
6946.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

FLA. COMP LAWYERS PUSH FOR PATIENT CHOICE AMENDMENT

If a group of workers' compensation lawyers in Florida has
its way, state residents will have the right to select the
healthcare provider of their choice for all care, not just
workers' comp.

Meanwhile, another constitutional issue is erupting in
Florida:  a single-payer effort spearheaded by a group
called the Floridians for Health Security.

The workers' comp lawyers group is pushing a proposed state
constitutional amendment that would guarantee state
residents the right to select the healthcare provider of
their choice.

The group, known as the Florida Workers' Advocates, has
received ballot approval from the state Division of
Elections and has begun collecting signatures to place the
amendment on the ballot via the citizen initiative process.

If the group collects the necessary signatures, the
initiative will be placed on the Florida ballot in 1996.  If
approved, it would affect all managed care in the state --
not just workers' comp managed care.

The amendment reads:  "An individual's absolute right to
select his or her healthcare providers shall not be denied
or limited by law or contract."

Opponents of the initiative -- which include businesses and
insurers -- say it would destroy the state's expanding
managed care industry and would drive insurance rates up.

"We have the highest healthcare costs on the planet, and
this just makes it worse," says Jodi Chase, general counsel
for Associated Industries of Florida.

"This is an attempt by workers' comp lawyers to make more
money," she adds.

Managed care companies and businesses are gearing up to
fight the proposal, and could end up spending millions doing
so if the initiative is included on the ballot in November.

Florida Workers' Advocates first needs to gather 42,945
signatures from registered voters in three congressional
districts.

If that occurs, the measure comes before the attorney
general and the state supreme court.  If they approve it,
the group then must collect and have verified an additional
429,428 signatures from registered voters in at least 12
congressional districts to place the initiative on the 1996
ballot.

Florida is in the process of becoming the first major state
where managed care is mandatory in the workers' comp system.
As a result, the market is heating up as the January 1997
deadline for workers' comp managed care approaches.

If the proposed amendment is approved, some observers say,
it could eliminate the savings that otherwise would be
gained in workers' comp and in the Florida group health
market, which also is undergoing large growth in managed
care.

Although it's not clear what chance the Florida Workers'
Advocates have to place their initiative on the ballot,
attorney Glen Wieland, president of the group, says a poll
shows that Florida voters would approve it overwhelmingly.

According to the poll, which surveyed 500 registered Florida
voters, 73% favor the amendment, 14% oppose it and 10% are
undecided.

The poll was conducted in mid-November by Hill Research
Consultants, a Houston-based public opinion research firm
that has been involved in three successful referendum
efforts in Florida.

The single payer initiative, which according to Florida
Association of HMOs industry analyst Richard Dorff "has much
less impetus than the any willing provider initiative,"
would create a statewide single payer system in Florida.

The ballot initiative would "provide all persons the right
to comprehensive healthcare services from the healthcare
provider of their choice in a single-payer healthcare
system."  It also contains any willing provider language.

Call Wieland at (407)841-7698.  Contact Dorff at (904)386-
2904.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

GAO:  ARIZ. POSTS SAVINGS WITH MEDICAID MANAGED CARE

Arizona's Medicaid cost-containment program has saved the
federal government and the state millions over the past
several years, showing that it's possible to control costs
by fostering competition and monitoring plan performance, a
new government report shows.

The General Accounting Office report, "Arizona Medicaid:
Competition Among Managed Care Plans Lowers Program Costs,"
found that the state succeeded in containing costs by
developing a competitive Medicaid healthcare market in which
health plans that submit capitation rates higher than their
competitors' rates risk losing Medicaid contracts.

"While other states' per capita costs for Medicaid have
continued to grow, Arizona's capitation rates declined by
11% in 1994," the report says.  "Reviews have also shown
that, since its inception, the per capita growth rate for
Arizona's program has been less than the national per capita
growth rate for states with traditional Medicaid programs."

Arizona's Medicaid program has been different from the
start.  The state never participated in the traditional fee-
for-service Medicaid program, implementing instead in 1982 a
program that mandates managed care for all beneficiaries and
capitates health plans.

The program, Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System,
features a competitive contract award process to purchase
healthcare services from private- or county-operated
healthcare plans.  The capitation rate is set after a
bidding process in which health plans submit separate bids
for each county they want to serve.

Health plan contracts stipulate specific provider networks,
which the state says ensures provider availability in both
urban and rural locations.  The state also monitors the
medical and financial performance of contracting plans.

The program has worked to control costs, the GAO report
found.  It saved the federal government $37 million and the
state $15 million in acute care costs in 1991, according to
the latest study available on Arizona's cost-containment
performance as compared to similar states with traditional
Medicaid programs.

AHCCCS capitation rates fell, on average, by 11% from 1994
to 1995, even though average spending per Medicaid
beneficiary was projected to rise nationally during the same
period.  The cost of serving beneficiaries in the AHCCCS
program already was below the cost that would have been
incurred in a traditional Medicaid program.

The GAO report concludes that a major factor in cost-
containment was the competitive bidding process.  "Plans are
not assured of winning a contract; consequently, they have
an incentive to submit the lowest bid for which they can
provide the required beneficiary services and still earn a
profit," the GAO report says.

Twenty-one plans submitted 95 bids to provide Medicaid
services in Arizona's 15 counties for the 1995-1997 contract
period.  AHCCCS awarded 42 contracts to 14 of the 21
bidders, including both commercial and non-commercial health
plans, according to the report.

Health plans serving Arizona Medicaid beneficiaries are
exposed to greater risk than under previous contracts.

AHCCCS health plans earned a combined $44 million in profits
in 1993, which represented about 5.4% of revenue, the report
says.  However, the focus on cost and cost-containment "does
not appear to harm access to appropriate care," the report
says.

"Several indicators suggest that beneficiary satisfaction is
high," the GAO says.  That may be because the program places
more weight on access and quality factors than it does on
capitation rates, requires networks to meet certain
standards for primary care coverage and routinely monitors
health plans' financial and operational performance, the
report says.

Additionally, AHCCCS is set to implement a new quality
management system emphasizing outcome-based clinical
measures, the report says.

Contact the GAO at (202)512-6000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

AMENDMENTS POSE THREAT TO 'TARGETED' HEALTH REFORM BILL

Bipartisan congressional legislation that would make health
insurance more accessible and portable has fairly broad
support and could come to the Senate floor soon, an industry
analyst says.  But that bill also could be sunk by several
possible amendments, including one prohibiting lifetime caps
on benefits, the analyst says.

The bill, S. 1028, was introduced by Senate Labor Committee
chair Nancy Kassebaum (R-Kan.) and Ranking Member Edward
Kennedy (D-Mass.) and is co-sponsored by 24 senators.

The proposal would:
y  Limit the use of pre-existing condition exclusions.  For
people who change jobs, otherwise applicable pre-existing
condition exclusions would be reduced by one month for each
month of prior qualifying coverage.
y  Provide insurance market reforms such as guaranteed
availability and renewability.
y  Provide limited federal pre-emption for fully-insured
purchasing cooperatives.
y  Clarify certain COBRA continuation coverage requirements.

The legislation has a number of holds on it, and "the odds
are against it coming to the floor under unanimous consent,"
said ERISA Industry Committee legislative analyst Anthony
Knettel at the group's quarterly meeting in December.  "But
there has been discussion about Kennedy offering it as an
amendment to another bill.  It could come up at any time in
that way.

"There are some substantial obstacles to the bill coming up
on the Senate floor," Knettel says, adding, however, "It's
being taken seriously."  The problem isn't so much the
proposal itself, Knettel says.  "What has caused a lot of
the controversy are possible amendments to S. 1028."

The most likely amendment is one that would prohibit
lifetime caps on benefits, Knettel says.  That would have a
huge impact on employer-sponsored benefit plans, he warns.

"Even if the amendment is relatively narrow in scope, the
consequences for employer-sponsored plans are potentially
significant, depending on the caps used by particular
plans," Knettel's group wrote in a paper on the subject.
Since some employers can only afford to offer coverage if it
has a low lifetime cap -- for example, about $250,000 --
"the effect would be devastating for some," according to the
analysis.

"Prohibiting the use of lifetime caps will force some
employers to drop coverage entirely, while others will be
forced to use higher cost-sharing and/or a narrower scope of
covered benefits to offset the increased plan costs," the
group said.  "The most likely effect of the amendment will
be to extend coverage for a relative few and to reduce or
eliminate coverage for many more."

Another likely amendment would require parity in the
treatment of mental illness.  The most likely language would
require parity for "serious mental illnesses," according to
the ERISA Industry Committee.  "That appears to mean, at a
minimum, drawing a distinction between 'serious' mental
illnesses like schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and
situations like marriage counseling that are not treatment
of a specific mental illness."

"It would require health plans to treat mental health
services in a comparable or equal way" to other services
offered in benefits packages, Knettel says.  For example, if
a plan placed limits on inpatient days for mental health
treatment, but did not have limits on other treatment,
"there is some question whether this amendment would require
you to equalize that."

Knettel adds:  "The impact of this kind of amendment could
be enormous in terms of bringing the scope of mental health
coverage up to everything else, or bringing everything else
down."

The amendments eliminating lifetime caps and requiring
parity are the most likely to be offered, Knettel says,
although other proposals might also be proffered.

Another possible amendment would require health plans to
extend hospital maternity stays, likely to 48 hours for a
vaginal delivery and 96 hours for a Caesarean delivery.

Contact Knettel at (202)789-1400.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE LAW OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 9, 1996

ORE. MCOS PREPARING TO FIGHT PLAN TO BAN CAPITATION

Predicting steep healthcare cost increases, Oregon HMO
administrators, employers and primary care physicians are
gearing up to stop a ballot initiative that would
effectively end capitation in the Beaver State.

The proposed referendum, which would ban capitation payments
to providers, has garnered nearly one-third of the 76,000
signatures it needs to be placed on the November ballot,
according to Tom Mann, the initiative's campaign director.

The language of the bill -- written by Salem ophthalmologist
Gordon Miller -- establishes five acceptable methods of
reimbursement for providers:  payment for work performed;
hourly wage; prearranged salary/benefits; bonuses based on
work performed; and reimbursement for expenses.  All other
forms of reimbursement, including any newly developed
payment strategies, would be banned.

Should the bill pass, HMO administrators predict premiums
will increase significantly.

The bill would likely precipitate a 10% to 15% increase in
premium rates, says Providence Good Health Plans Executive
Director Jack Friedman.  The state would see an even larger
rise in the cost of serving its Medicare beneficiaries,
where increases in Medicare supplemental and risk plan costs
could go higher than 20%, he predicts.

Oregon Blue Cross/Blue Shield Vice President of Corporate
Development Barney Speight expresses similar concern for the
state's recently restructured Medicaid program, which has
moved 80% to 90% of its eligibles into managed care.

But while Miller agrees that there may be an initial jump in
premium costs, he says the cost of comprehensive medical
care will remain largely unaffected by changes in pay
structure.

The Oregon Medical Association hasn't taken sides yet.  But
because of the diversity of its membership, says OMA
Executive Director Robert Dernedde, it's unlikely that the
association would support the initiative.

Miller contends that capitation arrangements are immoral,
saying they cause physicians to withhold care out of
financial interest.  "If you ever say anything different to
a patient because of financial status, you have compromised
your medical ethics," says Miller, who adds that in a
capitated market, all doctors will have to meet the contract
costs of the least ethical physician.

"I've always been very deeply disturbed by those
allegations," Speight says.  "[They] paint doctors totally
as economic entities."

Proponents of the initiative are fairly confident that the
measure will receive enough signatures to make it on the
November ballot, and even those most staunchly opposed to
the legislation seem to agree.

That sets the stage for a sizable conflict come November,
when a wide array of bill opponents could come out against
the legislation.

"I believe there will be an opposition campaign," says
Speight, who adds that employer groups and primary care
physicians would probably be part of a multi-disciplinary
movement against the measure.

Call Tom Mann at (503)370-2318 and Providence Good Health
Plans at (503)215-7500.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-31</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-301</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh12.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024252 text/html 29591
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:41:05 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:04 GMT
Content-length: 29402
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh12.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet <BR>
January 12, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>ORE. MCOS GEARING UP TO FIGHT PROPOSED END OF CAPITATION</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(539 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>PROJECTED HOSPITAL UTILIZATION RATES PER 100,000 COVERED&nbsp;LIVES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(9 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>PA. BILLS WOULD RESTRICT ER PAYMENT DENIALS FOR MCOS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(510 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>CONSUMERS GIVE FOR-PROFIT HMOS QUALITY EDGE, SURVEY FINDS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(62 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>CONSUMER PROTECTION REGS "UNIFORM," GHAA/AMCRA SAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(283 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>AWP FIGHT HEATS UP AS 1996 LEGISLATIVE SESSION OPENS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(321 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>PSNS, PREMIUM BATTLES AHEAD FOR MCOS IN 1996, EXPERT SAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1235 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>REGIONAL NEWS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><A HREF = "#8"><LI>CALIF. OFFICIALS OKAY CAREMARK'S PURCHASE OF CIGNA MEDICAL&nbsp;GROUP</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(58 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>FHP/CMG COLORADO DEAL EXTENDED UNTIL DECEMBER 1998</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(64 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>PURCHASE OF THREE IPAS EXPANDS FPA'S GOLDEN STATE PRESENCE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(56 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES INKS NEV. CONTRACT WITH SIERRA&nbsp;HEALTH SERVICES</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(59 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>COMPDENT EXPANDS MANAGED DENTAL PLAN WITH TEXAS FFS PLAN&nbsp;PURCHASE</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(46 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><A HREF = "#13"><LI>WELLCARE GETS GREEN LIGHT FOR PLANNED BROOME COUNTY, N.Y.,&nbsp;HMO</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(66 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>WELLPOINT TO BUY MASS MUTUAL'S HEALTH SUBSIDIARY IN $380&nbsp;MILLION DEAL</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(55 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>CCN TEAMS WITH CHICAGO EMPLOYERS ON CARDIAC CARE PILOT&nbsp;PROGRAM</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(82 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>ARIZONA'S MEDICAID MANAGED CARE SAVING MILLIONS IN COSTS,&nbsp;GAO SAYS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(142 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

ORE. MCOS GEARING UP TO FIGHT PROPOSED END OF CAPITATION

by David McGuire

An Oregon ballot initiative that would effectively end
capitation in the Beaver State has HMO administrators,
employers and primary care physicians concerned about their
futures and the future of the state's healthcare system.

The proposed referendum, which would ban capitation payments
to providers, has garnered nearly one-third of the 76,000
signatures it needs to be placed on the November ballot,
according to Tom Mann, the initiative's campaign director.

The language of the bill -- written by Salem ophthalmologist
Gordon Miller -- establishes five acceptable methods of
reimbursement for providers:  payment for work performed;
hourly wage; prearranged salary/benefits; bonuses based on
work performed; and reimbursement for expenses.  All other
forms of reimbursement, including any newly developed
payment strategies, would be banned.

Should the bill pass, HMO administrators predict premiums
will increase significantly.

The bill would likely precipitate a 10% to 15% increase in
premium rates, says Providence Good Health Plans Executive
Director Jack Friedman.  The state would see an even larger
rise in the cost of serving its Medicare beneficiaries,
where increases in Medicare supplemental and risk plan costs
could go higher than 20%, he predicts.

Oregon Blue Cross/Blue Shield Vice President of Corporate
Development Barney Speight expresses similar concern for the
state's recently restructured Medicaid program, which has
moved 80% to 90% of its eligibles into managed care.

But while Miller agrees that there may be an initial jump in
premium costs, he says the cost of comprehensive medical
care will remain largely unaffected by changes in pay
structure.

"There is no question that if physicians are withholding
care [because of capitation], premiums will be up," he says.
"But as for cost of service, it's a wash."

The Oregon Medical Association hasn't taken sides yet.  But
because of the diversity of its membership, says OMA
Executive Director Robert Dernedde, it's unlikely that the
association would support the initiative.

Miller contends that capitation arrangements are immoral,
saying they cause physicians to withhold care out of
financial interest.

"If you ever say anything different to a patient because of
financial status, you have compromised your medical ethics,"
says Miller, who adds that in an increasingly capitated
market, all doctors will have to meet the contract costs of
the least ethical physician.

"I've always been very deeply disturbed by those
allegations," Speight says.  "[They] paint doctors totally
as economic entities.

"Any reimbursement system is flawed because it's dealing
with human motivations," he adds, who says there is "as much
evil on the fee-for-service side" as there is in capitated
arrangements.

Proponents of the initiative are fairly confident that the
measure will receive enough signatures to make it on the
November ballot, and even those most staunchly opposed to
the legislation seem to agree.

That sets the stage for a sizable conflict come November,
when a wide array of bill opponents could come out against
the legislation.

"I believe there will be an opposition campaign," says
Speight, who adds that employer groups and primary care
physicians would probably be part of a multi-disciplinary
movement against the measure.

For more information, contact Tom Mann at (503)370-2318 and
Providence Good Health Plans at (503)215-7500.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

PROJECTED HOSPITAL UTILIZATION RATES PER 100,000 COVERED
LIVES

(See original issue)

Source:  Chi Systems Inc.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

PA. BILLS WOULD RESTRICT ER PAYMENT DENIALS FOR MCOS

Pennsylvania managed care plans would have to foot the bill
for an enrollee's out-of-network emergency room care if a
"reasonable person" would believe the symptoms indicated an
emergency, under legislation recently introduced by two
Keystone State lawmakers.

Acting in response to consumer and provider complaints about
MCOs refusing to reimburse enrollees for certain emergency
room services, state Sens. Roy Afflerbach (D-Lehigh-
Northampton) and Jim Gerlach (R-Chester County) introduced
companion legislation Jan. 4 that the two say will better
regulate and define Pennsylvania MCOs' responsibilities.

State MCOs have not taken a stand on the bills, but Gerlach
suspects positions will become clearer as the two pieces of
legislation gain momentum in the Senate.

"You shouldn't be sitting at home with chest pains saying,
'Is this a heart attack or not,'" says Gerlach, adding that
while an MCO's ability to control costs is important, the
lives of patients must take precedent.

Gerlach's S.B. 1356 contains the same language as
legislation introduced in the House by Rep. John A. Lawless
(R-Audubon).  Both apply a "reasonable person" standard to
enrollees who seek emergency care.  Regardless of the final
diagnosis, if it is determined that a reasonable person
experiencing the symptoms described by an enrollee seeking
care would believe it to be an emergency, the patient would
be reimbursed.

"The idea is to make a definition that is standard," says
Gerlach spokeswoman Carol Hilty.  "We don't want to penalize
insurance companies."

Companion ER legislation's requirements even stricter on
MCOs

Afflerbach's S.B. 1357 would extend consumer protection a
bit further than Gerlach's proposal.  If passed, it would
require plans to reimburse enrollees for services performed
to the point when a patient's condition is stabilized.

The bill adds that reimbursement may be refused only if it
is found that the services charged for were not performed.
MCOs may also deny payment for medical screening
examinations in "cases when the plan enrollee reasonably
should have known that an emergency did not exist."

Under S.B. 1357, MCOs that require authorization for payment
would have to maintain a 24-hour hotline for emergency room
providers and enrollees to obtain approval for care.

It also stipulates that a physician and a surgeon be
available to mediate authorization disputes.

If the emergency provider and hotline physician still
disagree over treatment, the MCO would be required to take
over the care of the patient either by sending a doctor to
the location or arranging transfer to a plan hospital.

Neither bill pleases the Pennsylvania Hospital Association,
says its director of state legislation, Kathleen Mebus.
Although the association supports the bills' premise, both
are "Band-Aid remedies" to a more serious problem, says
Mebus.

"We have no utilization review standards in this state,"
says Mebus, who believes that the proliferation of consumer
protection legislation in Pennsylvania only obscures that
fact.

The bills will be assigned to committees after state
lawmakers return to work Jan. 22.

For more information, call Sen. Afflerbach's office at
(717)787-1349 and Sen. Gerlach's office at (717)787-1398.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

CONSUMERS GIVE FOR-PROFIT HMOS QUALITY EDGE, SURVEY FINDS

Consumers give for-profit HMOs the edge in efficiency, but
believe not-for-profit HMOs are less costly, a study
released by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation finds.
According to the study, most Americans think that, while
for-profit HMOs are generally more efficient and provide
better quality care, not-for-profit HMOs are more community-
based and less costly.  For more information, call (202)347-
5270.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

CONSUMER PROTECTION REGS "UNIFORM," GHAA/AMCRA SAYS

Disputing a recent study critical of states' HMO consumer
protection regulations, the Group Health Association of
America/American Managed Care and Review Association says
there is a great deal of uniformity in the levels of HMO
regulation and oversight from one state to another.

A study by the Los Angeles-based Center for Health Care
Rights found wide disparities in the level of consumer
protection afforded HMO enrollees in various states (MCO,
Dec. 29).  Study authors further indicated that in most
states the level of protection was insufficient.

Not so, according to the newly merged GHAA/AMCRA, which
released a statement claiming problems with the survey's
premise and methodology.  "To a large extent, I think the
report is misleading," says GHAA/AMCRA Vice President Garry
Carneal.  "More states are up to speed than not."

GHAA/AMCRA says CHCR failed to take into account the
overlapping federal and private oversight measures that
affect HMOs.  By focusing solely on written state
legislation, says Carneal, CHCR reported much wider
disparities than actually exist.

"Fifty percent of HMOs have applied for National Committee
on Quality Assurance accreditation," says Carneal, who adds
that with the combination of federal and state HMO acts,
HMOs are far more closely watched than fee-for-service
insurers.

CHCR defends its study, however, asserting that despite
private accreditation and federal oversight, significant
shortfalls in state legislation in the areas of quality
assurance, information disclosure and grievance procedures
are still very much an issue.

"[GHAA/AMCRA's] assertion is that healthcare is a nationally
regulated industry, and that's just not the case," says CHCR
Counsel Peter Lee.

For more information on the consumer protection study,
contact CHCR at (213)383-4519.  For details, contact
GHAA/AMCRA
at (202)778-3200.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

AWP FIGHT HEATS UP AS 1996 LEGISLATIVE SESSION OPENS

Any-willing-provider legislation and its newer cousins,
freedom-of-choice and patient-protection acts, already have
been introduced in at least 21 states, and it's likely that
the proposals will spark spirited fights between bill
proponents and managed care forces in at least a few of
those states, industry officials say.

It's difficult to say where the AWP "hot spots" might be,
says Herb Schultz, director of state advocacy for the Group
Health Association of America/American Managed Care and
Review Association.  The group is tracking 48 bills,
including carry-over legislation from 1995.

Despite the uncertainty, managed care forces in several
states already have geared up to fight it:

*  The Association of HMOs in Michigan met last fall with
state Rep. John Jamian (R), who is interested in drafting
patient protection act legislation.  According to the group,
Jamian assured managed care representatives that he did not
want to write an anti-managed care bill, and said the
legislation would not be a vehicle for an any-willing-
provider proposal.  However, the lawmaker did express
concern about authorization for out-of-panel providers
within managed care organizations, the HMO group said.  The
legislation still is being written, according to a
spokeswoman for the group.

*  In Ohio, businesses, insurers, consumer and labor
organizations have formed a coalition to defeat any-willing-
provider legislation (Managed Care Law Outlook, November
1995).  The group, which calls itself the "Coalition for
Managed Care," will oppose legislative initiatives before
the Ohio General Assembly this year.  Several committees
already are considering AWP bills, according to the group.

*  In Idaho, the Idaho Medical Society has distributed a
draft of a proposed patient-protection act to industry
leaders for comments.  The draft does not include AWP
language, but does have a requirement that all managed care
entities, except those exempt from federal income tax under
IRS code section 501(c)(3) or (4), offer a point-of-service
option to all enrollees.

Call Schultz at (202)778-3200.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

PSNS, PREMIUM BATTLES AHEAD FOR MCOS IN 1996, EXPERT SAYS

by Russell C. Coile, Jr.

What's in store for managed care organizations in 1996?  The
healthcare market will begin changing dramatically as payers
demand even lower prices and provider-sponsored networks
battle established MCOs for Medicare dollars, predicts
Russell C. Coile, Jr., president of the Health Forecasting
Group, Santa Clarita, Calif.

Competition, capitation and consolidation are at the
forefront of the forces that will drive health trends in
1996.  It's all part of the re-engineering of the American
healthcare market, propelled by payers -- employers,
business coalitions and government -- who are demanding and
getting lower prices and reduced expenditures from the
healthcare sector.

The year ahead will be a war over the premium.  Price wars
between HMOs and insurers are expanding on a national basis.
The decline in HMO/insurance premiums is triggering a wave
of health industry consolidations and deeply slashed
provider payments.  Angered by the cuts, physicians and
hospitals are organizing their own provider-sponsored
networks and fighting back.  The year ahead will be a battle
between providers and payers to control more of the
shrinking premium.

Purchasers will win, providers will lose

Purchasers and government health programs are "winners,"
delighted that national health inflation is coming down.
Corporate health benefit costs rose only 2% from 1994 to
1995, due to widespread switching by employers to managed
care.  Employer-sponsored health costs were one-third below
the level of consumer inflation, according to the
Philadelphia-based Hay Group.

Health plans and providers will be "losers," as price
competition starts a downward spiral for HMO profits and
provider payments.  For the first time in a decade, medical
care prices slipped down to the level of overall consumer
inflation, rising only 0.3% in October 1995, according to
the Wall Street Journal.

Managed care and employer-driven price competition are
slashing health costs.  As recently as 1988, the nation's
healthcare prices were soaring at an annual rate of 14%.
Government payment cuts and private-sector competition are
looming for 1996.  The impact of those trends will ripple
across America's $1 trillion health system, affecting every
hospital, physician, health plan and consumer.

Premium wars could turn ugly

Economic competition between providers and payers --
HMOs/insurers -- over control of the premium could turn ugly
in 1996.  All buyers -- employers, business coalitions and
government programs -- are driving cost competition among
HMOs and insurers.  In 1995, HMO prices fell by 1.2%.  The
down cycle is not over.  Early signals for HMO prices
indicate that health plan premiums will range from no
increases to 2% to 3% rollbacks from 1995 price levels.

In Northern California, which is an emerging "Stage Five"
market including many metropolitan areas with more than 40%
HMO enrollment, the average health plan premium has shrunk
50% in a 10-year period, from $2,460 per enrollee for a
managed care plan in 1986 to $1,260 for HMO coverage in
1995, according to Steve McDermott, CEO of PriMed Inc. and
executive director of the Hill Medical Group, San Ramon,
Calif.  PriMed manages more than 250,000 capitated lives
through a network of 2,160 physicians.

In 1986, hospitals got 41% of the premium, and physician
services accounted for 33%.  Doctors increased their share
of premium to 37% in 1995, while the hospital component
shrank to 30%.  The big winner was the payer, whose
administrative costs and profits grew from 14% in 1986 to
21% today, according to McDermott.

Newt Gingrich:  "Health reform czar"?

Move over Hillary.  Newt Gingrich is the next "health reform
czar" for the 1990s.  The Republican-driven federal budget
reconciliation act of 1996 would end the Great Society
commitment to healthcare for the poor and elderly, according
to the Wall Street Journal.  House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
(R-Ga.) deficit-reduction proposal is the most sweeping
federal health program reform legislation since 1983, when
Congress converted Medicare to a prepaid health plan.
Wrenching cuts in Medicare and Medicaid spending may total
some $440 billion in the next seven years.  Doctors could
see their federal payments reduced by almost $30 billion,
while hospitals could lose $120 billion or more.

That strategy leans more toward Margaret Thatcher than
Hillary Rodham Clinton.  Medicare and Medicaid would be
privatized, with incentives for conversion to HMOs.

The result would be a multi-tiered health system in which
beneficiaries choose health plans with different coverages,
depending on their ability to pay extra for wider provider
choice or scope of benefits.

Federal budget battles could lead to "unbundled" GOP health
reforms

Extended wrangling between the White House and GOP
Congressional majority could delay -- but probably not stop
-- GOP-led health reform initiatives.  If Republicans cannot
overcome Clinton vetoes, the GOP may take an "unbundled"
approach to health reform, inserting pieces of their health
reform strategy into other legislation.  Key objectives for
Republican health reformers include:

y  Placing spending limits on entitlement programs such as
Medicare and Medicaid.
y  Reducing Medicare and Medicaid spending and holding down
federal expenditures to 4% to 7% annual increases for the
next five to seven years.
y  Conversion of Medicaid to a block-grant program managed
by the states.
y  Conversion of Medicare to a managed care program that
puts HMOs and provider-sponsored networks -- not government
-- at risk for managing health costs.
y  Caps on Medicare hospital and physician payments.
y  Provider-sponsored networks to allow physicians and
hospitals to enroll Medicare beneficiaries without an HMO
license.
y  Small-business insurance reforms to eliminate waiting
periods, pre-existing conditions and experience ratings.
y  Malpractice reform that limits "pain-and-suffering" non-
medical damages to $250,000 per case.
y  Medical IRAs and medical savings accounts.
y  Reducing subsidies for teaching hospitals and
"disproportionate share" facilities.
y  Protecting rural hospitals.

Are PSNs unfair competition -- or MCO business
opportunities?

The "silver lining" in the massive budget reconciliation
bill is congressional support for provider-sponsored
networks.  Here is a compelling rationale for the 3,000
physician-hospital organizations and integrated networks.
PSNs would give physicians and hospitals a new managed care
vehicle to compete for control of the premium.  The PSN
concept may help level the playing field between providers
and payers.

There could be thousands of PSNs competing for certification
by the Health Care Financing Administration to enroll 37
million Medicare beneficiaries.  New competitors would
potentially include an estimated 3,000 physician-hospital
organizations, hundreds of large physician groups and dozens
of regional integrated delivery systems.

Becoming a PSN could be risky business.  PSNs may need more
experienced partners, such as HMOs and insurers, to control
costs and manage the network.  Managing risk will be the
make-or-break challenge of provider-sponsored networks and,
outside of California, most providers have little or no
experience in capitation.

Providers may turn to HMOs and insurers for cost management,
quality control and information systems under a variety of
PSN-HMO arrangements, including those in which providers:

y  "Rent" the HMO/insurer to manage the network, a technique
called administrative services only, in which managed care
plans often contract with self-funded employer health plans.
y  Utilize an independent third-party administrator to link
the provider network contractually, manage contracting and
control utilization and quality.
y  Form strategic business relationships with the
HMO/insurer for management services on a profit-sharing
basis (but no equity sharing).
y  Joint venture with shared HMO/insurer equity in the PSN,
where providers develop the healthcare delivery network and
the HMO/insurer supplies the fiscal and management services.

Contact Coile at (805)286-1085.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

CALIF. OFFICIALS OKAY CAREMARK'S PURCHASE OF CIGNA MEDICAL
GROUP

Following approval by the California Department of
Corporations, Caremark's sub-sidiary, Friendly Hills, La
Habra, Calif., has finalized its purchase of CIGNA Medical
Group, CIGNA HealthCare's Los Angeles-based staff-model
delivery system.  The deal will expand the Friendly Hills
system to cover about 400,000 HMO members in Southern
California.  For more information on the acquisition,
contact CIGNA
at (818)500-6948.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

FHP/CMG COLORADO DEAL EXTENDED UNTIL DECEMBER 1998

FHP Health Care, Englewood, Colo., and Columbine Medical
Group of Colorado will extend their existing mutual contract
for three more years.  CMG is the exclusive Denver area
provider of physician services to the Colorado region of
FHP.  CMG serves about 180,000 FHP HMO members in the area
and an additional 17,000 members of FHP's Senior Plan.  For
further information, call FHP at (303)714-3082.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

PURCHASE OF THREE IPAS EXPANDS FPA'S GOLDEN STATE PRESENCE

FPA Medical Management, a multi-state healthcare management
services organization, has signed a definitive agreement to
purchase three California IPAs affiliated with Foundation
Health Corporation and its HMO subsidiary, Foundation
Health.  The IPAs slated for purchase have about 450 primary
care physicians and 2,000 specialists in the Golden State.
For more information, contact FPA at (619)295-7005.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

INTEGRATED HEALTH SERVICES INKS NEV. CONTRACT WITH SIERRA
HEALTH SERVICES

Integrated Health Services of Maryland has entered an
exclusive capitation contract to provide subacute care,
long-term care and outpatient rehabilitation services to
members of Health Plan Nevada, a subsidiary of Sierra Health
Services.  HPN is one of Nevada's largest HMOs, with more
than 112,000 commercial enrollees and 24,000 Medicare
managed care plan enrollees.  For details, call (212)696-
4455.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

COMPDENT EXPANDS MANAGED DENTAL PLAN WITH TEXAS FFS PLAN
PURCHASE

Managed dental care company CompDent Corp., Atlanta, has
purchased Texas Dental Plans/Dental Plan
International/Dental Plan Resources, a fee-for-service
dental referral company based in San Antonio.  With the
acquisition, CompDent covers 1.8 million plan members in 23
states.  For more information, call CompDent at (404)998-
8936.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

WELLCARE GETS GREEN LIGHT FOR PLANNED BROOME COUNTY, N.Y.,
HMO

WellCare of New York Inc., a subsidiary of the WellCare
Management Group Inc., has been approved by the New York
Department of Health to operate an HMO in Broome County,
including the city of Binghamton.  Serving more than 98,000
members in New York, WellCare hopes to increase HMO
saturation in the county, which currently has only 13% HMO
enrollment.  For details, call WellCare at (914)338-4110.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

WELLPOINT TO BUY MASS MUTUAL'S HEALTH SUBSIDIARY IN $380
MILLION DEAL

Managed care giant WellPoint Health Networks Inc., Woodland
Hills, Calif., has signed a definitive agreement to buy
Group Life and Health, a subsidiary of Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Company, for about $380 million.  The deal
will create one of the nation's largest publicly held
managed care organizations, with nearly 4 million members.
Call (818)703-4321.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

CCN TEAMS WITH CHICAGO EMPLOYERS ON CARDIAC CARE PILOT
PROGRAM

In an effort to reduce the incidence, severity and cost of
heart disease, Chicago area companies and hospitals are
teaming with the Employers Healthcare Purchasing Initiative
for Quality and Value Health's Community Care Network, a
managed care organization, to launch a pilot program aimed
at high-risk patients.  The key element of the Coordinated
Cardiac Care Project is a free year-long counseling and
support program for employees at risk for coronary artery
disease and other heart problems.  For more information,
call (203)678-3472.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE OUTLOOK via NewsNet
January 12, 1996

ARIZONA'S MEDICAID MANAGED CARE SAVING MILLIONS IN COSTS,
GAO SAYS

Arizona's Medicaid cost-containment program has saved the
federal government and the state millions over the past
several years, showing that it's possible to control costs
by fostering competition and monitoring plan performance, a
new government report shows.

The General Accounting Office report, "Arizona Medicaid:
Competition Among Managed Care Plans Lowers Program Costs,"
found that the state succeeded in containing costs by
developing a competitive Medicaid healthcare market in which
health plans that submit capitation rates higher than their
competitors' rates risk losing Medicaid contracts.

The program, Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System,
features a competitive contract award process to purchase
healthcare services from private- or county-operated
healthcare plans.  The capitation rate is set after a
bidding process in which health plans submit separate bids
for each county they want to serve.  For copies of the
report, call GAO at (202)512-6000.



<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-32</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-339</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh62.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024312 text/html 43358
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:41:24 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:28 GMT
Content-length: 43169
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh62.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet <BR>
February 26, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>Mass. Blue Cross' Medicare HMO First to Get Hit by&nbsp;New HCFA Sanctions</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(214 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><A HREF = "#2"><LI>Penn. Medicaid Program to Mandate 438,000 into&nbsp;Managed Care Plans</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(364 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>HMOs' Voluntary Compliance Squelches Colo. Maternity Bill</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(249 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Medicare Adding Procedures To Bundled Payment Demo</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(224 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>Mayo's Jacksonville Clinic, Ga. IDS Seeking HMO Licenses</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(294 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>WellPoint, Trigon Struggle With Charitable Obligations</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(402 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>GHAA/AMCRA Changes Name, Courts PPOs, UR Firms</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(137 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>MANAGED CARE BRIEFS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(306 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>MANAGED CARE STATS & FACTS</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><A HREF = "#9"><LI>Mortality, Hospital Costs Drop As Managed Care&nbsp;Spreads </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(162 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>24 States Mandate or Regulate Workers' Comp&nbsp;Managed Care</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(136 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Physician Practices Worth More In High Managed&nbsp;Care Markets</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(123 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#12"><A HREF = "#12"><LI>Success of IPA, Network HMOs Not Linked to Care&nbsp;Quality</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(202 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#13"><LI>State Employees Offered More HMOs in 1995</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(175 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#14"><A HREF = "#14"><LI>Oxford Shines, HIP Stumbles, Says New York&nbsp;Public Advocate</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(243 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#15"><A HREF = "#15"><LI>California's HMOs Show Widely Varying&nbsp;Utilization</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(233 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#16"><A HREF = "#16"><LI>California's Nonprofit HMOs Have Highest Medical&nbsp;Loss Ratios </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(242 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#17"><A HREF = "#17"><LI>Maternity Stay Lengths Shrink For Women in Twin&nbsp;Cities </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(214 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#18"><A HREF = "#18"><LI>Medicare HMO Members Satisfied In Southern&nbsp;California</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(198 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#19"><LI>Studies in Brief</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(234 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#20"><LI>Medicare Managed Care Update</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(81 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<H3>PROVIDER CONTRACTING & CAPITATION</H3>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#21"><A HREF = "#21"><LI>Admar PPO, Hancock POS Test Risk Pools, Bonuses to&nbsp;Boost Physician Performance</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(618 words)</NOBR></LI>
<A HREF = "#22"><LI>HMO Puts IDS at Full Risk For Plan's Medicare Population</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(467 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Mass. Blue Cross' Medicare HMO First to Get Hit by
New HCFA Sanctions


HCFA has slapped intermediate sanctions on Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Massachusetts for "knowingly" including misleading
marketing information in its Medicare HMO application, according to
a HCFA source.
In freezing the enrollment and marketing functions of Blue Cross'
"Blue Care 65" HMO product, the action represents the first time
HCFA has levied intermediate sanctions on a Medicare risk-contract
HMO.
The sanctions are expected to take effect in March and stay in
place pending the outcome of a HCFA investigation, the agency
source told MCW. 
Blue Cross apparently claimed a number of non-contracted physicians
were in the Blue Care 65 provider network, the source says.
But the insurer expects to have the problem rectified before the
sanctions take effect, Evelyn Murphy, vice president for corporate
affairs for Blue Cross, told MCW.
Murphy says Blue Cross itself brought the matter to HCFA's
attention after discovering that 25-30 documents had been "altered"
in the insurer's application to the agency. Most of the
non-contracted MDs have since signed contracts with the Blues plan,
she adds.
Blue Cross recently got HCFA approval to offer a Medicare HMO in
Massachusetts in 1996. In fact, the plan just started marketing its
product late last month to seniors throughout the state.
Blue Care 65 is a zero-premium Medicare HMO. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Penn. Medicaid Program to Mandate 438,000 into
Managed Care Plans


In its first step toward a statewide program, Pennsylvania this
month drafted a plan to mandate 438,000 Medicaid recipients into
HMOs in five counties surrounding Philadelphia.
The initiative, dubbed "HealthChoices," is part of a statewide
mandatory managed care program to be phased in over the next three
years. The state has had a limited mandatory program for 100,000
Philadelphia Medicaid recipients since 1986.
Pennsylvania got a Sec. 1915(b) Medicaid waiver from HHS to set up
"HealthChoices" in 1993 under then-Gov. Bob Casey (D). But the plan
was criticized by some groups for lacking Medicaid HMO regulations
and implementation was delayed. A class action lawsuit over the
proposal is still pending.
Incoming Gov. Tom Ridge (R) made a number of changes to
HealthChoices before the state issued a draft request for proposals
(RFP) this month. HMO bids will be awarded in the summer, open
enrollment will begin Aug. 6, and the program will start Nov. 1.
HMO enrollment will be phased in, with coverage for certain groups
like AFDC recipients starting Nov. 1. Remaining eligibles will be
folded in on July 1, 1997. Medicaid recipients targeted for 1997
entry may voluntarily join HMOs sooner. 
Recipients who don't select an HMO within a specified time period
will be randomly assigned to a plan.
To address criticisms lobbed at the initial HealthChoices proposal,
the department will:

o       Ban HMO direct marketing, such as
door-to-door solicitation, and instead have a benefits consultant
conduct enrollment activities.
o       Carve out behavioral health services
for a separate procurement process. Counties will be given the
first rights of refusal to manage mental health-substance abuse
treatment benefits before a private capitated contractor is picked.
o       Require HMOs to submit encounter
data and comply with Medicaid HEDIS (MCW 2/5/96, p. 3).
o       Capitate HMOs, build in an allowable
profit margin, and link performance and outcome measures to profit
levels. This addresses concerns about the Philadelphia Medicaid
program, whose private contractor was found by the HHS Inspector
General to have made  excessive profits. That program is
scheduled to terminate Oct. 31.
o       Make direct payments to hospitals
for disproportionate share and graduate medical education instead
of including them in the HMO capitation. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

HMOs' Voluntary Compliance Squelches Colo. Maternity Bill


Colorado's HMOs and insurers convinced a state legislator to pull
her mandatory maternity stay bill after the health plans agreed to
voluntarily comply with the provisions.
The bill would have required health plans to cover 48 hours of
hospital care following a normal delivery and 96 hours following a
Caesarean section.
Last year, four states enacted similar laws, and a fifth adopted
the mandate by regulation.
The Group Health Assn. of America/American Managed Care and Review
Assn. expects similar activity this year in at least 14 states
(MCW's Managed Care Perspectives 1/29/96, p. 3).
The HMOs and insurers that agreed to voluntarily comply represent
95% of the market. The health plans agreed:

o       Not to require reauthorization for
maternity and newborn inpatient care for at least 48 hours after
delivery.
o       To apply guidelines issued by the
American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology and the American
Academy of Pediatrics on utilization reviews and authorization
requests.
o       To conduct maternity policy
education programs for pregnant women, new mothers, pediatricians,
family physicians and OB-GYNs.

Through various concessions in recent years, Colorado insurers and
HMOs have fought off several other legislative attempts, including
any-willing-pharmacy and any-willing-provider laws.
Separately, Maryland's doctors earlier this month agreed not to
push for a state any-willing-provider law after HMOs made various
concessions, including disclosure of economic credentialling
criteria. 
The Maryland HMOs also agreed to revise provider contracts to
clarify that physicians won't be penalized for making certain
public statements about the health plans. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Medicare Adding Procedures To Bundled Payment Demo


A Medicare bundled payment demonstration project that HCFA expects
to announce within the next two months will be expanded to include
several orthopedic and cardiology procedures.
HCFA has already tested this centers-of-excellence concept on
bypasses and cataracts, but those demos are expiring this year.
Under the upcoming cardiology pilot, the agency will pay facilities
a negotiated bundled rate to cover both hospital and physician
services for heart bypasses, angioplasties, valve replacements and
catheterizations. The new orthopedic demo will cover total hip and
knee joint replacements.
Hospitals can participate in either the cardiology or the
orthopedic demo, or both. The bundled payment will account for
outlier cases; separate payments won't be made for particularly
expensive patients.
HCFA hasn't decided on the number of sites, but most likely will
choose facilities in a region comprised of several contiguous
states. The sites will be well-dispersed throughout the region. The
agency will use qualitative data to choose participating hospitals,
with price "way down the line," says a HCFA official.
Pre-applications will be sent in March or April to all hospitals
that routinely perform the procedures in the chosen region. HCFA
hopes to select hospitals by late 1996 and have the first sites
operating by early 1997.
The scope of the demo could change if bundled payment for Medicare
services is enacted as part of budget reconciliation.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Mayo's Jacksonville Clinic, Ga. IDS Seeking HMO Licenses


The Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Fla., intends to file for an HMO
license by May, while a Georgia integrated delivery system (IDS)
that came under fire for accepting capitated payments will apply
for an HMO license this week.
Mayo thus becomes one of the latest and most prestigious provider
organizations to form its own health plan, a trend that is
spreading like wildfire (MCW 10/9/95, p. 4).
The clinic already contracts with more than a dozen managed care
plans that send over 10,000 patients a month to Mayo. By forming
its own HMO, Mayo will have another option to offer patients. Mayo
hopes to offer the HMO in northeast Florida by September.
Mayo's Jacksonville clinic has 30 primary care MDs among its 170
doctors. Mayo will honor its contracts with other managed care
plans.
In Atlanta, Promina Health System, which claims to be Georgia's
largest community-based, nonprofit health system, will apply for an
HMO license this week and hopes to have the plan up and running by
January 1997. The IDS is plunging into the HMO market because the
state requires licensure of provider entities that take capitation
from self-funded employers.
Last year Promina scrapped its capitated arrangement with Cobb
County after state regulators rapped the IDS' knuckles for
accepting capitation without an HMO or insurance license (MCW
7/10/95, p. 4).
Promina initially will offer the HMO to its own 13,000 workers and
to public employers. Promina may later solicit private employer
contracts. But only a small portion of Promina patients will be in
its HMO; the majority will be members of other health plans that
contract with the IDS for health services.
The Promina HMO will capitate primary care MDs, specialists and
hospitals. Providers will be free to join other plans.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

WellPoint, Trigon Struggle With Charitable Obligations


Blue Cross of California and Trigon Blue Cross-Blue Shield in
Virginia are grappling with their public charity obligations as
they convert to for-profit publicly traded companies.
California Blue Cross last week said it will recapitalize its
for-profit, publicly traded managed care spinoff, WellPoint Health
Networks, so the Blues plan can contribute all its assets to two
new charitable foundations and resolve its public charity
obligations.
The move involves an "upstream merger" in which WellPoint will buy
Blue Cross of California's remaining commercial business, acquire
the rights to the Blue Cross name and mark in California, and gain
about 310,000 PPO members. WellPoint has 2.8 million PPO,
point-of-service and HMO enrollees.
WellPoint stockholders will get a cash dividend of $10 per share,
followed by a two-for-three reverse stock split. Total cash
proceeds to WellPoint's largest stockholder, Blue Cross, will
exceed $1 billion.
Blue Cross, which owns 80 million shares in WellPoint, will
transfer $1 billion in cash to one foundation, and about $2 billion
worth of stock, or 80.4% of the stock in the new WellPoint, to the
second foundation. That's similar to the $3 billion the two
foundations would have received if WellPoint and Blue Cross had
merged with Health Systems International Inc. (MCW 1/1/96, p. 4).
The recapitalization is subject to approval by the Calif.
Department of Corporations and by stockholders other than Blue
Cross.
Meanwhile, Trigon Blue Cross-Blue Shield recently filed an amended
conversion plan with the Virginia State Corporation Commission.
The amended plan incorporates a recent agreement with the state's
Attorney General to allocate $165 million to public charity when
Trigon converts from a not-for-profit, taxable mutual insurance
company to a publicly traded stock company (MCW 12/18/95, p. 4).
The amended plan would set aside $165 million in a special class of
stock for public or charitable uses.
Trigon originally was going to give all policyholders as of May 31,
1995, the company's value in the form of stock. The amended plan
would allow eligible policyholders to be those on record as of Dec.
31, 1995.
But the Virginia legislature is debating the state budget and the
amount of Trigon public charity funds. Several legislators want to
increase the Blues' public charity obligation to at least $175
million.
The State Corporation Commission has set a May 6 hearing on the
Trigon plan. The insurer covers nearly 1 million PPO, POS and HMO
enrollees and 800,000 indemnity lives. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

GHAA/AMCRA Changes Name, Courts PPOs, UR Firms


The Group Health Assn.of America/American Managed Care and Review
Assn. is changing its name to the American Assn. of Health Plans,
subject to board approval Feb. 25.
The trade group didn't want "managed care" in the new title because
field testing found the term has a negative connotation in the
public's mind, several board members told MCW.
In addition to the name change, the merged trade association is
reaching out to all managed care organizations, including
utilization review firms and PPOs, "though there's still some fight
against that from the old [HMO] guard" within GHAA, says one board
member.
To reflect its expanded mission, the association has put on its
board Robert Patricelli, chairman-CEO of Value Health Inc., a
national specialty managed care company, and Marcus Merz, president
of Preferred One, a Minneapolis PPO firm. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

MANAGED CARE BRIEFS


        Viva Health Inc. a for-profit HMO
partially owned by the University of Alabama-Birmingham, was
granted a license to operate in three counties. A competing HMO is
challenging the university's ownership in the plan (MCW 1/15/96, p.
4).

        Nashville, Tenn.-based HealthWise of
America, which owns and operates HMOs in four states, has signed a
binding letter of intent to develop and manage Capital Community
Health Plan, a Medicaid HMO in Washington, D.C.

        Healthsource Inc. of Hooksett, N.H.,
has acquired Central Massachusetts Health Care Inc., an
83,000-member nonprofit HMO based in Worcester, Mass., in a deal
valued at $46.5 million (MCW 9/12/94, p. 2). A substantial part of
the proceeds will fund a nonprofit charitable foundation.

        Humana Medical Plan of South
Florida, which had been denied accreditation by the  National
Committee for Quality Assurance in 1994, just received a full
three-year seal of approval (MCW 6/6/94, p. 1).

        A.M. Best Co. assigned an "A+"
financial rating to the Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey HMOs
of U. S. Healthcare Inc.

        Health care purchasing coalitions
and large employers in several markets are working with CareData
Reports Inc. on what it claims will be the largest employee
satisfaction study of managed care plans to date. For information,
contact Janet Murphy: (212) 883-4087.

        PacifiCare Health Systems Inc.'s
PacifiCare  Behavioral Health subsidiary in Laguna Hills, Calif.,
completed acquisition of Psychology  Systems Inc. Terms weren't
disclosed.

        On behalf of 26 states, Wisconsin
Attorney General James Doyle has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to
review a federal appeals court decision that reversed most of a
trial court's $17 million verdict against the Marshfield Clinic in
an antitrust lawsuit filed by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Wisconsin (MCW 9/25/95, p. 2). Doyle is arguing that the decision
poses significant problems for state antitrust law enforcement. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Mortality, Hospital Costs Drop As Managed Care
Spreads 


Hospitals in cities with high managed care penetration report lower
costs, reduced length of stays and decreased mortality rates,
according to a study by KPMG Peat Marwick consultants of Los
Angeles.
The national study of 11.7 million patients at 3,700 acute-care
facilities found that hospital costs in highly penetrated managed
care markets were 11% below the national average and 19% below
hospital costs in low managed care markets.
In markets with high managed care penetration, hospital stays were
6.3% shorter than the national average and almost 12% shorter than
stays in medium managed care markets.
And the risk-adjusted mortality rates in high managed care markets
were 5.25% below the national average.
Although managed care is driving down hospital costs without
negatively affecting patient care, hospital costs were flat or
starting to rise in many highly penetrated managed care markets,
notes Michael Hamilton, national director of KPMG Peat Marwick's
health care group.
For details, call Debbie Dalmand at KPMG: (714) 850-4440.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

24 States Mandate or Regulate Workers' Comp
Managed Care


About 24 states either regulated or mandated the use of managed
care organizations for workers' compensation coverage as of January
1995, according to a study by the Workers Compensation Research
Institute of Cambridge, Mass.
The survey of state workers' compensation officials also revealed
that eight states mandated  managed care to treat injured
workers, 35 states limited a worker's initial choice of provider,
and 38 states limited a worker's ability to switch providers. Other
findings:

o       Some 40 states used fee schedules
for managed care providers;
o       Hospital payments for workers' comp
care were regulated by 35 states;
o       Utilization review for workers' comp
care was mandated by 21 states;
o       Bill review was mandated by 16
states; and
o       About 12 states used treatment
guidelines.

For details, call the institute: (617) 494-1240. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Physician Practices Worth More In High Managed
Care Markets


Physician practices sell for more money in communities with high
managed care penetration, according to the Center for Healthcare
Industry Performance Studies.
High managed care markets were defined as those with at least 52.2%
managed care penetration, while low managed care markets were
defined as those with less than 40% of the population in managed
care plans. 
The median value per physician for practices in high managed care
markets was $106,000 in 1994, but only $95,000 in low managed care
markets. Practices in medium managed care markets were valued at
$134,000 per MD. The study covered 245 physician practice
acquisitions representing more than 650 doctors.
For details on the center's Physician Practice Acquisition Resource
Book, contact Patrick Knott at (614) 457-1777. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Success of IPA, Network HMOs Not Linked to Care
Quality


HMO success isn't strongly linked to quality of care provided, and
plans with relatively bad reputations continue to grow, finds a
Commonwealth Fund study of IPA- and network-model HMOs.
The case studies of six unidentified HMOs in Boston, Los Angeles
and Philadelphia found that the most financially successful HMOs
each had a provider-friendly and physician-focused philosophy;
decentralized medical management; stable management; and a primary
focus on developing IPA/network HMO business.
Size and financial backing, often by large indemnity-based
insurers, wasn't necessarily an advantage. Among the study's other
findings:

o       The HMOs in the three markets
increasingly are shifting risk to providers.
o       Employer demands to contract with
fewer plans that cover broader markets are increasing market
pressures that favor size over past performance.
o       Pressure to grow appears more
motivated by being in a position to exert market power than by
gains in a plan's ability to provide quality care or invest in
internal systems.

As competition intensifies, there is a critical need for readily
available, quality-of-care measures, but consolidating markets will
make it increasingly difficult to rely on meaningful choice to
ensure quality, the study concludes.
For details, call Mary Lou Russell at the foundation: (212)
606-3842. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "13"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

State Employees Offered More HMOs in 1995


State-employed workers were offered a total of 375 HMOs last year,
up from 350 in 1991, says a study by the Segal Co. consultants of
New York.
In 1995, 35% of state workers were in HMOs, up from 29% in 1991.
Last year, 11 states enrolled more than 50% of state employees in
HMOs, led by Arizona (88%); California (86%); Missouri (74%);
Wisconsin (72%); and Delaware (66%).
But 12 states had less than 10% of state workers enrolled in HMOs,
and six states had no state employees in HMOs.
The average monthly HMO premium for January 1995 was $170 for
individual state workers and $414 for families. 
As of January 1995, 46 states offered a PPO. In 28 of these states,
the PPO was part of an indemnity plan and was available at the
worker's discretion at the point-of-service. The PPO was separate
in 12 states, and the worker had to choose a primary care physician
at the time of plan enrollment.
For details, call Erin Burns at the Segal Co.: (212) 251-5000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "14"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Oxford Shines, HIP Stumbles, Says New York
Public Advocate


Oxford Health Plans Inc. ranked nearly tops with New York City
consumers while the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York (HIP)
had the worst overall public complaints record and customer service
phone lines of 12 HMOs studied.
Mark Green, public advocate for New York City, studied HMOs by
Aetna, ChoiceCare, Cigna, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, HIP,
Oxford, Managed Health Inc., Prudential, Travelers, MetLife, Sanus
and U.S. Healthcare. 
From 1991 through 1994, HIP was the only HMO to rank in the bottom
one-third in public complaints each year. From 1992 to 1994, some
49.5% of complaints against the HMO were upheld by the state, while
only 20% of complaints against ChoiceCare and 25% of those against
Sanus were upheld.
Green also found that HIP by far had the longest delays in
answering phones, with typical delays of 10 minutes.
By contrast, Oxford had the highest percentage of board-certified
physicians, the highest MD renewal rate, and the second-longest
customer service hours. 
Oxford also had the fastest growth rate of all plans studied. From
year-end 1990 through June 1995, Oxford's membership increased from
28,000 to 595,600.
For the first half of 1995, the amount spent on physicians per
member ranged from $30.61 per month at Empire HealthNet to $83.77
at a Travelers HMO. January 1996 monthly premiums for individuals
ranged from $172.50 at Managed Health to $257.59 at ChoiceCare.
For details, call Joe DePlasco at the Public Advocate's office:
(212) 669-4195. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "15"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

California's HMOs Show Widely Varying
Utilization


Utilization varies greatly among California HMOs, according to a
study by the Center for Health Care Rights in Los Angeles.
The study focused on the state's 18 HMOs that had Medicaid
contracts. Twelve of the 18 plans failed to include utilization
data for all or some of their membership groups. 
Of plans that reported relevant data, the average number of
physician encounters per member in California's so-called Medi-Cal
program during 1994 ranged from 0.37 in Universal Care's HMO to
5.14 in Kaiser's southern California region.
For the HMOs' commercial members, the average number of MD
encounters per member ranged from 0.21 for Universal Care to 8.53
for FHP's staff-model plan. MD encounters per member for Medicare
beneficiaries ranged from 4.11 for United Health Plan to 26.43 for
FHP's staff-model HMO.
Overall, the weighted average number of physician encounters per
member for plans that reported data was 3.5 for Medi-Cal members,
3.26  for commercial enrollees, and 9.19 for Medicare members.
The average number of non-physician encounters per member, as well
as annual hospital stays per 1,000 enrollees and average length of
stay, also varied widely among HMOs. 
The study concluded that plans appear to collect and report
utilization data inconsistently to the state, and that California's
Department of Corporations apparently fails to check the accuracy
of reported data.
For details, call Jennifer Yang at the Center for Health Care
Rights: (213) 383-4519. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "16"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

California's Nonprofit HMOs Have Highest Medical
Loss Ratios 


The five California HMOs with the highest medical loss ratios were
all nonprofit plans, according to a study by the California Medical
Assn.
Of the five HMOs with the lowest loss ratios, four were for-profit
plans.
The California HMOs that spent the largest percentage of premiums
on medical care were:

o       Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
(96.8%); 
o       Santa Barbara Regional Health
Initiative (95.1%);
o       Blue Cross of California (93.4%);
o       Solano Partnership Health Plan
(89.3%); and
o       Contra Costa Health Plan (89.1%).
The California HMOs with the lowest medical loss ratios were:
o       CaliforniaCare Health Plans (73%),
owned by Blue Cross of California;
o       Molina Medical Centers (75.8%);
o       Community Health Group, the only
nonprofit plan with one of the five lowest medical loss ratios
(75.9%);
o       Aetna Health Plans of California
Inc. (77.4%); and
o       Foundation Health Plans Inc.
(77.4%), a publicly traded company.

Nonprofit HMOs generally want high medical loss ratios, while
for-profits want to keep ratios low, some experts note. 
Many industry experts argue that medical loss ratios by themselves
are not an accurate indicator of an HMO's efficiency or performance
(MCW 1/8/96, p. 3).
Among plans with 20,000 or more enrollees, California's for-profit
HMOs had a medical loss ratio averaging 81% and posted profits
amounting to 4.6% of premiums. 
Nonprofits averaged an 86.8% medical loss ratio with profits of
2.9% of revenue. 
For details, contact Danielle Walters at the California Medical
Assn.: (916) 444-5532. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "17"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Maternity Stay Lengths Shrink For Women in Twin
Cities 


The percentage of one-day maternity stays in the Twin Cities area
increased nearly seven-fold between 1985 and 1995, according to a
study by the Minnesota Hospital and Healthcare Partnership.
Last year, four states required insurers and managed care plans to
cover 48-hour hospital stays for newborns and their mothers for
regular childbirths, 96 hours for Caesarean sections (MCW's
Perspectives 1/29/96).
The analysis of 360,000 maternity discharges revealed that, for all
vaginal and Caesarean sections, including those with complications,
the average length of stay dropped from 2.94 days in 1985 to 2.17
days in 1995.
 From 1985 to 1995, the average length of stay for women with
uncomplicated vaginal deliveries dropped from 2.42 days to 1.72
days. During that same period, average length of stay for
uncomplicated Caesarean deliveries dropped from 4.57 days to 3.53
days.
In the first quarter of 1995, 42.5% of women with uncomplicated
vaginal deliveries had one-day stays, up from 6.2% in 1985.
Overall, women with private managed care and indemnity coverage had
a higher percentage of one-day stays than did uninsured women or
Medicaid recipients. Over the 10-year period, lengths of stay for
women with commercial indemnity coverage generally tracked that of
women with private managed care coverage.
For details, call Gretchen Musicant at the Partnership: (612)
641-1121. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "18"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Medicare HMO Members Satisfied In Southern
California


Some 70% of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in five Medicare
risk-contract HMOs are highly satisfied with their plan, according
to a study by CareData Reports Inc. of New York.
And 81% of surveyed enrollees intended to re-enroll in their
Medicare HMO.
The 2,673 beneficiaries surveyed were enrolled in Medicare HMOs
offered by FHP, Health Net, Kaiser Foundation Health Plans,
Maxicare and PacifiCare in Southern California. The survey covered
member satisfaction with primary care physicians, specialists,
disease prevention and treatment, administration, pharmacy benefits
and other health plan components.
Dr. Tod Cooperman, president of CareData, says seniors like
Medicare HMOs because:

o       They value the extra benefits, like
prescription drug coverage, that are not covered by
fee-for- service (FFS) Medicare;
o       They find HMOs less administratively
burdensome than the traditional Medicare program; and
o       They believe their health status is
improving under the care provided by HMOs.

Of the five HMOs studied, Kaiser's scored highest for total
satisfaction, with 80% of members reporting they were at least very
satisfied.
Overall, 53% of those surveyed who previously were in FFS Medicare
rated their HMO as better than FFS, 20% rated the two systems
equally, and 27% preferred FFS. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "19"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Studies in Brief


o       Little correlation has been found
between a metropolitan area's HMO market penetration and the
utilization of CAT scans, MRIs, cardiac catheterization and nuclear
medicine services, according to a study by the Technology Marketing
Group of Des Plains, Ill. For details, call John Vanden Brink:
(708) 297-1404.
o       Nearly 20% of 620 employers use
centers of excellence to help control health costs, according to a
study by Watson Wyatt Worldwide consultants in Washington, D.C.
Some 29% of employers with 2,500 or more workers used such centers,
while only 8% of companies with less than 500 employees did. For
details, call Bob McKee at Watson Wyatt: (202) 508-4848.
o       The U.S. per capita cost (USPCC) for
Medicare aged beneficiaries increased from $297.33 in 1991 to
$440.90 in 1996, according to a report by Coopers & Lybrand
consulting firm of Washington, D.C. The USPCC is used to calculate
the adjusted average per capita cost amounts that serve as the
basis for paying Medicare risk HMOs. For details, call Susan Palsbo
at Coopers & Lybrand: (202) 822-4000.
o       Liver transplants managed by United
Resource Networks, a subsidiary of United HealthCare Corp. of
Minneapolis, saved purchasers and consumers 33% per transplant
procedure, the company claims. The study also revealed that
United's transplant patients had one and two-year survival rates
that were higher than the national averages. For details, call
Kirsten Simning at United HealthCare: (612) 992-5137.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "20"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Medicare Managed Care Update


Type of Contract, Number of Contractors as of 1/22/96 Total Enrollment 
                  (as of 12/13/95),                   as of 1/22/96  
                                                      (as of 12/13/95)

Risk Contract, 189 HMOs and CMPs (182), 3.194 million (3.083 million)
Cost Contract,  27 (32), 168,140 (177,012)
Risk Contract with  Cost Enrollees Remaining, 
                6 (4), 17,672 (5,834)
Health Care Prepayment Plans (HCPPs), 
               54 (56), 341,906 (341,639)
HCPPs Converted to Risk with  Cost Enrollees Remaining, 
               14 (14), 170,788 (180,465)
Demonstrations, 6 (5), 19,186 (18,560)

Source: HCFA monthly reports




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "21"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

Admar PPO, Hancock POS Test Risk Pools, Bonuses to
Boost Physician Performance


While capitation is the dominant method for HMOs to shift financial
risk to providers, Admar Corp., a PPO company, and John Hancock
Insurance Co.'s point-of-service (POS) plan are testing innovative
provider risk-sharing mechanisms.
Santa Ana, Calif.-based Admar holds providers in its HMO-type
product to overall performance budgets, while John Hancock's
point-of-service (POS) product pays physicians under a negotiated
fee schedule with two bonus incentive pools.
Admar is one of a few cutting-edge PPOs that are forming HMO-type
products and sharing risk with providers (MCW's Stats & Facts
11/13/95, p. 1). Admar's product is available in California and
Arizona.
Admar's fully insured "Exclusive Health" product, which is about
one and one-half years old, uses primary care gatekeepers and is
offered through an insurance carrier partner, says Richard Toral,
CEO-chairman.
 An overall provider performance budget is set by the payer, with
the budget segregated into risk pools for different categories of
providers. The pools are funded by a portion of the payer's
premiums.
Where Admar doesn't capitate providers, it sets up separate risk
pools for primary care physicians, specialty physicians and
hospitals. Where the company capitates only primary care MDs, it
sets up pools for specialists and hospitals. The pools are adjusted
for the payer group's enrollee age and sex.
Actual utilization is measured against each provider risk pool. If
providers stay within the allotted performance budget, they may get
bonuses at year-end.
Admar is scheduled to be acquired this month by Principal Health
Care Inc., the managed care subsidiary of Principal Financial Group
(MCW 11/6/95, p. 4).

Providers Like Bonus Pool Concept

Separately, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. uses two bonus
incentive pools for MDs in its "Signature Health Advantage" POS
product. The POS plan is being sold with a July 1 effective date to
self-insured employers in three markets - Dallas, Houston and
Cleveland.
The carrier contracts with physicians under a fee schedule. In
addition, MDs are eligible for bonus pools:

o        One bonus pool for primary care
doctors pays year-end bonuses based on an MD's individual
performance. The performance formula incorporates the MD's actual
claims costs; quality indicators, such as the physician's treatment
patterns and member satisfaction results; and compliance with
overall plan rules, such as utilization review and specialty
referral notifications. The pool is funded by a percentage of the
administrative-services-only fee an employer pays Hancock for the
POS plan.
o        A second provider incentive fund for
all physicians pays year-end bonuses to both primary care MDs and
specialists based on a separate performance formula, such as how
well a specialist meets quality indicators and controls
utilization. The employer funds the pool based on a percentage of
claims paid.

Hancock already has several contracts for the POS product with
PHOs, IPAs and group practices.
Providers have been receptive to Hancock's approach because it
"gives them a real chance to collect on the bonuses," according to
Lyn Rosenstein, Hancock's director of network product management.
Docs view the pools as financial incentives, she adds. Hancock is
not using payment withholds.
In effect, the POS plan aligns incentives for providers and Hancock
through performance guarantees to employers. If an employer's
claims costs exceed the guarantee, some doctors may not get bonuses
and the pool funds go back to the employer, Rosenstein notes.
Bonuses aren't common in PPOs but will grow in popularity, adds
Brant Kelch, president of MedStrategies consulting firm in Vienna,
Va., and co-founder of the American Assn. of Preferred Provider
Organizations. He says other forms of risk-sharing PPOs are trying
include capitation of providers without getting an HMO license, and
global pricing of physician and hospital services.
For details, call Admar at (714) 953-9600 or John Hancock at (617)
572-6390. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "22"></A>Copyright
MANAGED CARE WEEK via NewsNet
February 26, 1996

HMO Puts IDS at Full Risk For Plan's Medicare Population


Pittsburgh's HealthAmerica HMO has chosen a newly formed
integrated delivery system (IDS) as the provider for the
plan's fledging Medicare HMO product.
HealthAmerica thus becomes the region's first HMO to put a provider
organization fully at risk.
Under the HMO's new "Advantra" Medicare HMO, Southwest Integrated
Delivery Network will take on the entire medical risk of the new
product offering on a percentage of premium basis.
While most provider groups first experience full risk through a
health plan's commercial members, Southwest Integrated is bucking
the trend by first taking on full risk for Medicare enrollees. The
contract represents the IDS' first venture with HealthAmerica.
Southwest Integrated says it's simply a matter of timing that
Medicare risk is its first fully capitated deal.
Taking on risk for seniors can be tricky for any provider
organization because of the special needs of seniors. To properly
take on such risk, providers must change their focus and
operations, experts say (PCC 7/24/95, p. 3; 6/26/95, p. 3).
Western Pennsylvania has the second-oldest Medicare population in
the nation, and a high percentage of the region's residents are
seniors, says James Fritz, president and CEO of Southwest
Integrated.
As part of the Medicare risk contract with Southwest Integrated,
HealthAmerica is negotiating a similar full-risk contract with the
IDS for the plan's commercial products, which have 250,000 members.
 In fact, Southwest Integrated's Medicare contract with
HealthAmerica dictates that both parties will attempt to strike
such an agreement within 90 days to serve HealthAmerica's
commercial membership.
However, if such a deal is not reached, the Medicare agreement will
stand, says Dan Lebish, executive vice president for the HMO's
medical delivery systems. 
HealthAmerica has held separate per-diem contracts with the five
hospitals that make up Southwest Integrated, according to Lebish.
The HMO also has held individual capitated contracts with most of
the 210 primary care MDs involved in the IDS, as well as fee
schedule-based contracts with the 700 specialists in the Southwest
Integrated group, Fritz and Lebish say.

Details of the Full-Risk Contract

Other provisions in the deal:

o        Southwest Integrated is at risk
for visits by Medicare enrollees to roughly 800 non-Southwest
Integrated specialists in HealthAmerica's overall provider network.
o        The health plan delegated the
medical management piece to the IDS. The ability to control medical
management is key for Southwest Integrated, Fritz says.
o        The HMO will provide on-site
assistance to help Southwest Integrated manage utilization.
o        The contract prevents Southwest
Integrated from starting an HMO. But the IDS can deal with
other plans.
o        Southwest Integrated can access
the HMO's care management programs, which link members to
psychosocial providers. 
o        The parties will collaborate on
clinical studies on conditions that afflict the elderly and
disabled.
Contact Lebish at (412) 577-5401 or Fritz at (412)  937-1396.






<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-33</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-376</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh76.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024336 text/html 34778
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:41:51 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:33 GMT
Content-length: 34589
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh76.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet <BR>
February 16, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><A HREF = "#1"><LI>`Gag Clauses' Appear More Frequently In Medicare,&nbsp;Medicaid HMO Contracts</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(494 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>HCFA to MCOs: Complete Your Homework</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(166 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Firms Drop Retiree Benefits As Costs Soar in 1995</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(255 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><A HREF = "#4"><LI>Start-Up Medicare Health Plans Target Southern State&nbsp;Markets</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(418 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><A HREF = "#5"><LI>Surviving HCFA Site Visits Requires Strong&nbsp;Pre-Audit Role</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(900 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Managed Medicare, Medicaid Grabs Researchers' Focus</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(200 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>Florida HMOs Pan for Gold In Long-Term Care Experiment</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(404 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>Intergroup Offers Seniors Free Health Club Membership</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(245 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>FEDERAL & STATE BRIEFS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(438 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><LI>INDUSTRY BRIEFS</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(655 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#11"><A HREF = "#11"><LI>Medicare Risk HMOs with Biggest Monthly Enrollment&nbsp;Growth (For the month ending Jan. 22, 1996)</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(150 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#12"><LI>Change of Mindset Required to Manage Dual Eligibles</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(230 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

`Gag Clauses' Appear More Frequently In Medicare,
Medicaid HMO Contracts


Some HMOs say the clauses prevent physicians from
steering healthier Medicare and Medicaid patients to other health
plans.

Although wide-ranging "gag clauses" are used by few HMOs, managed
care organizations enrolling Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries
are more likely to insert some type of "gag clause" than are
commercials plans, says an attorney who works on Medicare and
Medicaid HMO contracts.
The reason: Unlike commercial HMO members, who are locked into a
plan for up to a year, Medicare beneficiaries and most Medicaid
recipients in HMOs are free to disenroll at any time.
The disenrollment rules give providers a lot more opportunity to
sway a senior's opinion of a health plan or disparage a plan
altogether, says Wendy Krasner, an attorney with McDermott, Will &
Emery's Washington office. "I'm seeing [gag clauses] more often for
plans in Medicare and Medicaid," she says.
Some Medicare and Medicaid health plans fear that physicians with
numerous plan contracts could steer patients from one HMO to
another.
For example, a physician put at risk by a plan may suggest to
sicker patients that they switch to a plan under which the MD is
paid on a fee-for-service basis. Or a physician who contracts with
an HMO but also has ownership interest in another health plan could
encourage healthier seniors into the latter plan.
While provider contracts may include varying degrees of "gag
clauses," some Medicare and Medicaid HMOs have included language to
prohibit physicians from advising enrollees to disenroll or join a
another managed care organization.
Krasner has seen contract clauses enabling the HMO to collect
thousands of dollars in liquidated damages for each member a
physician refers to another plan.
Overall, few health plans use the expansive "gag clauses" that have
drawn backlash from MDs, consumers and legislators, experts say.
Massachusetts just passed an anti-gag clause bill, and legislators
in California, Illinois, Maine and New York are considering similar
bills (MMM 2/5/96, p. 4).
While HMOs say they use such clauses to prevent MDs from ruining a
plan's competitiveness, physicians say "gag clauses" interfere with
the MD-patient relationship by prohibiting physicians from
explaining that treatment decisions are based on an HMO's standards
and rules.
"[Gag clauses] are contractually restricting doctors' professional
judgment," says Latham Williams, an attorney with Sidley & Austin
in Chicago.

Williams' advice to HMOs:

o        Train MDs to understand plan rules
covered under each managed care offering by an organization;
o        Encourage physicians to talk with
the plan's medical director before informing patients about a
course of action if a certain procedure is not covered; and
o        Don't prohibit a determined
physician from talking to a patient about alternative treatment
options if a resolution cannot be reached with the medical
director.

"I think the medical profession will prevail in this," Williams
says, adding that HMOs considering wide-ranging "gag clauses"
should think about the possible cost of defending legal challenges.
Contact Krasner at (202) 778-8064, or Williams at (312) 853-7000.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

HCFA to MCOs: Complete Your Homework


As scores of managed care organizations consider
entering the hot Medicare HMO market, HCFA has some advice for
would-be applicants: Complete the necessary paperwork.

Bruce Fried, director of HCFA's office of managed care, told the
agency's regional administrators last month to withdraw all 1996
contract or service-area expansion requests that aren't completed
in a 60-day corrective period.
The problem: Numerous HMOs recently submitted incomplete Medicare
applications in order to get in line for HCFA processing.
Normally, HCFA takes 18-24 weeks to process new HMO applications.
Fried told agency officials to process complete applications within
19 weeks, notify organizations within four weeks if an application
is incomplete, address issues raised in site visits in a timely
manner, and complete site-visit reports promptly.
When Fried recently took over HCFA's managed care operations, he
found an unprecedented backlog of 100 applications. As of Feb. 1,
45 applications were pending for new risk plans, and another 40
existing risk HMOs requested service-area expansions, according to
the agency. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Firms Drop Retiree Benefits As Costs Soar in 1995


HMOs have missed out on the retiree managed care boom,
says a benefits analyst. The suggested selling point to employers:
lower costs and reduced FAS 106 liability.

The number of employers offering health care coverage to
Medicare-eligible retirees fell last year as big business saw
retiree health costs jump 9.5%, according to Foster Higgins' annual
employee benefits survey.
"I think the HMOs are missing some big opportunities," John Erb,
Foster Higgins principal, told MMM. "The movement of
Medicare-eligible retirees into Medicare risk-contract HMOs"can
reduce an employer's cost and FAS 106 liability to nothing."
Last year, 35% of employers offered health coverage to
Medicare-eligible retirees, down from 40% in 1994. But more
employers, 41%, offered coverage to early retirees - a more
expensive proposition for some firms.
Employers have dealt with 1993 Financial Accounting Standards Board
changes in various ways, including simply discontinuing coverage.
The rules require companies to account for the costs of future
retiree health benefit commitments on financial statements.
However, some companies have turned to HMOs for retiree health
coverage, creating a market niche for Medicare HMOs (MMM 1/19/96,
p. 1, 12/8/95, p. 1).
While just 7% of Medicare-eligible retirees have joined HMOs, the
percentage of large employers offering them has tripled since 1993,
to 21% in 1995.
Drawbacks: In many markets, Medicare risk HMOs haven't set up shop,
and in some places where they exist, retirees resist them.
But 61% of early retirees, as opposed to 31% of Medicare-eligible
retirees, are in managed care.
Contact Erb at (212) 574-9034. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Start-Up Medicare Health Plans Target Southern State
Markets


Medicare beneficiaries in Arkansas, South Carolina and
Tennessee get their first oppor- tunity to enroll in Medicare
risk products.

Among managed care organizations that have received recent HCFA
approval to start Medicare risk HMOs, three plans will chart new
territory in Arkansas, South Carolina and Tennessee - states which
have had no Medicare risk HMOs.
In Tennessee, Health123 Platinum has begun  marketing to Medicare
beneficiaries in 18 counties in middle Tennessee. The plan,
majority-owned by Nashville's Vanderbilt Health Plans, is operated
by THG Management Services of Nashville.
THG manages four HMOs and a PPO in Tennessee, including VHP
CommunityCare Medicaid HMO. Health123 officials expect to enroll
3,500 seniors in its new product by year-end through an
"education-based" marketing strategy, says a plan official. The HMO
expects to have the Tennessee Medicare risk market to itself until
the end of the year.
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Arkansas and Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of South Carolina have started Medipak Advantage and Prime
Companion, respectively. Both senior products are for-profit IPA
models.
Medipak, which expects to enroll 6,500 seniors by year-end, will
operate in four central Arkansas counties. Prime Companion began
marketing in five counties initially and will expand to eight more
counties later this year.
Other Medicare risk HMOs that have begun operation this year
include:

o        Senior Choice, a New Jersey IPA
model, operated by for-profit Aetna Health Plans of (Parsippany)
New  Jersey.
o        Optimum Choice Advantage, an IPA
model being offered in southern Virginia by for-profit Optimum
Choice Inc. of Rockville, Md.
o        Blue Care 65, a Massachusetts IPA
model operated by nonprofit Blue Cross and Blue Shield of (Boston)
Massachusetts.
o        Medicare Blue, an IPA model
operating in New Jersey, offered by for-profit Medigroup Inc. of
Newark.
o        HIP VIP, a New Jersey group model,
offered by nonprofit HIP of (New Brunswick) New Jersey Inc.
o        Gold Plan, an IPA model operating in
Buffalo, N.Y., offered by nonprofit Independent Health Associates
of Buffalo.
o        Medicare Plus, an IPA model
operating in Tampa, offered by for-profit CAC-United HealthCare
Plans of (Tampa) Florida Inc.
o        FHP Senior Plan, an Illinois IPA
model operated by for-profit FHP of (Oakbrook Terrace) Illinois
Inc.
o        Advantage 65, a Louisiana group
model offered by for-profit Advantage Health Plan Inc. of New
Orleans.
o        Group Health, a staff model
operating in western Washington, offered by nonprofit Group Health
Northwest of Spokane, Wash.
o        Advantra, an IPA model operating in
southwestern Pennsylvania, offered by for-profit HealthAmerica of
Pittsburgh. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Surviving HCFA Site Visits Requires Strong
Pre-Audit Role


FHP Inc. holds mock audits prior to federal
regulators' biennial visits to its Medicare HMOs. The process
allows the HMO to discover which operational areas need tweaking.

FHP Inc. depends on HCFA for some $2.5 billion in annual revenues.
The Long Beach, Calif.-based company certainly doesn't want to give
its largest payer reason to doubt its ability to operate Medicare
HMOs.
So FHP created a process to prepare for HCFA's on-site monitoring
visit. FHP improved its process after HCFA ordered the HMO in 1991
to revamp the enrollment process for its Senior Plan because agency
auditors said senior disenrollment rates were too high.
Medicare risk HMOs can expect increased federal monitoring as HCFA
plans to increase the frequency of site visits. A HCFA task force
is studying how to turn its biennial site visit process into annual
monitoring visits.
HCFA officials say the monitoring process is straightforward; the
agency publishes a comprehensive guide to the audit process to help
plans prepare for site visits.
FHP, however, dedicates a lot of time and resources toward HCFA
auditors' week-long examination of the Senior Plan. HCFA's central
office handles the fiscal and legal aspects of the audit, while the
regional offices examine utilization, delivery and quality
assurance, and such operational issues as marketing, enrollment,
claims and appeals/grievances.

Set Compliance Measures for Audit

"[A plan must have] compliance measures built into its policies and
procedures," says Steven Tucker, director of FHP's Medicare
programs and former HCFA regulator.
As part of the pre-audit ritual, FHP conducts a mock audit before
the auditors visit. "We sort of act as the plan's regulatory
conscience," Tucker says. "We do this so we shine a little bit
better in the HCFA audit."
HCFA looks at time-measured data, such as how a plan handled the
appeals process. The plan has 60 days to resolve grievances, and
HCFA expects a 95% compliance rate in this area, Tucker says.
About eight weeks before the audit, HCFA asks for the universe of
data, such as records on enrollment, disenrollment, appeals, claims
and utilization reviews. Two weeks before the visit, HCFA lets the
plan know which claims and data auditors will review further.
"The last thing you want is to have HCFA identify a problem, and
you look surprised," Tucker says. A plan wants to address problems
before HCFA officials arrive. As part of the pre-audit, FHP
randomly pulls its own data to spot problem areas.
Caution: Start the pre-audit cycle four to six months prior to the
site visit. A late start won't enable the plan to fix problems, and
a plan can lose momentum going into the audit with an earlier
start, Tucker advises.
During the pre-audit phase Tucker taps staff members to represent
the plan to auditors. Technical types more often are better than
executives because they know the operational side better.

Tips for Surviving an Audit

At the time of the site visit, the HMO should assemble the key
people across departments that fixed any problems that arose during
the mock audit.
For example, if there's been a denial of service, a plan wants to
ensure it has been turned over to appeals before HCFA comes in.

Tucker's audit and post-audit maxims:

o        Being neat counts. FHP color-codes
files, labels file boxes, and ensures the files contain enough
information so HCFA can measure against the standard.
o        Prepare good space with windows and
phones. Don't throw your auditors into a cubicle. Meet their basic
needs.
o        Ensure the plan's top officials
attend entrance and exit conferences with auditors. There's nothing
more important happening that week for them.
o        Have your technical people waiting
in the wings to assist auditors. This is not a good vacation week.
o        Prepare your delegated or contracted
provider groups. HCFA will visit some of a plan's contracted MD
groups.
o        Take advantage of the exit
interview. Much of what will be contained in HCFA's corrective
action plan will be mentioned here. Get a head start.
o        Implement policy changes in other
Medicare HMOs. A plan should have affiliated plans operating in
other regions adopt any policy changes that arise from the audit.

Although HCFA regional officials continue to work with plans to
ensure they make suggested corrections, plans that continue to fall
out of compliance could be subject to fines or an investigation.
"That's amazingly easy to overlook," as key officials leave a plan
and take with them its institutional memory, Tucker says.
Tucker warns plans about the three hot spots:
(1) Interdepartmental coordination. HCFA auditors have a keen eye
for identifying problems and seeing how problems can affect other
operational areas. Proper policies will enable personnel in one
department understand how other departments are affected.
(2) Service denials and appeals. It's the hot issue. HCFA is
reacting to reports and stories in the general media about
beneficiaries' bad HMO experiences. HCFA doesn't want to be seen as
lackadaisical. Make sure delegated groups, claims staff, and member
services are up to speed on policies. HCFA's looking at those
areas.
(3) HMO oversight of delegated functions. HMOs need to add value as
they spread the risk. There's increasing scrutiny in this area. A
plan has to prove it has an oversight function in its delegated
contracts. Ensure the plan has case management, utilization review,
claims and credentialing oversight of contracted groups.
Contact Tucker at (310) 809-5399. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Managed Medicare, Medicaid Grabs Researchers' Focus


The projects may help managed care organi- zations and
policymakers better serve Medi- care and Medicaid populations.

Researchers backed by The Commonwealth Fund will examine the
effects of a rapid move to managed care by the Medicare and
Medicaid programs.

The organization has awarded grants totaling $2.1 million to
projects including:
o        Analysis of the effects of enacted
or proposed Medicare changes. Researchers will identify ways to
improve quality and consumer satisfaction in Medicare managed care,
medical savings accounts and other new delivery options; and
analyze solutions to Medicare's long-range financing problems.
o        Identification of major high-cost
illnesses in Medicare populations. Researchers will explore
concerns raised by such populations, such as barriers to
specialized care, and will examine financial incentives plans use
to discourage enrollment of high-cost patients.
o        Examination of the impact of managed
care on providers serving minority communities. Researchers will
explore how providers respond to the challenges of managed care and
the impact on delivery in minority communities.
o        Evaluation of how the rapid growth
of Medicaid managed care affects the organization and delivery of
health services in New York City.

Contact Mary Lou Russell of the Commonwealth Fund at (212)
606-3842. 




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Florida HMOs Pan for Gold In Long-Term Care Experiment


As states seek to hold down Medicaid long-term care costs,
a handful of MCOs experiment with caring for the expensive
dual-eligible population.

PacifiCare of Florida and CAC-United HealthCare, as part of a
three-county experiment in South Florida, claim to hold down
Medicaid costs for long-term care recipients.
The HMOs combined care for 2,900 Medicaid long-term care recipients
in Broward, Dade and Palm Beach counties. About 80% of recipients
are Medicare-eligible.
Managing care for dual eligibles does not appeal to most HMOs,
which would rather enroll healthy adults.
"We're doing exactly the opposite [in this program]," says Mary
Guthrie, director of PacifiCare Independence Plan. Program
participants must be SSI/Medicaid recipients and have a condition
that prevents them from performing daily living activities.
"It's where most of the money is," says JoAnne Dutcher, director of
CAC-United ElderCare. Long-term care related costs make up the bulk
of Medicaid expenditures.
Both plans hope the state, which is developing a long-term care
policy, will expand the program.
A handful of managed care organizations around the nation do
long-term care management, including social HMOs, the Program for
All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), and a variety of state
initiatives.
How Florida's program works: The voluntary program allows
Medicare-eligible Medicaid long-term care enrollees to retain their
out-of-network physicians and providers. PacifiCare and CAC-United
operate as supplemental insurers, covering Medicare copayments and
deductibles.
Medicaid-only recipients must seek care from in- network doctors
for primary and specialty coverage.
The plans receive a capitated fee from Medicaid for providing
standard benefits, plus an array of additional home- and
community-based services including personal care assistance,
homemaking/chore, home-delivered meals, adult day care, respite
care and skilled home care.
The plans assign a care manager to each enrollee for monthly
assessment, care planning and monitoring.
The plans say they save the state money by maintaining enrollees in
a community setting as long as it's medically acceptable and
economically feasible. When an enrollee can't be maintained in the
community, the plans cover nursing home care costs for the contract
period.
PacifiCare's Independence Plan last year received an average $1,133
per member, per month from the state. In Dade County, Medicaid paid
nursing homes an average $2,765 a month last year.
Florida Medicaid has not done an analysis on the program so it
could not verify or refute the savings claims, according to a
Medicaid spokesperson.
Contact Guthrie at (305) 569-2221, or Dutcher at (305) 948-4064.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Intergroup Offers Seniors Free Health Club Membership


An Arizona Medicare HMO says its unique benefit will help
improve members' health status and the plan's competitiveness in a
tight market.

Intergroup Prepaid Health Services of Arizona Inc. gives many of
its 35,300 SeniorCare enrollees free health club memberships, a
benefit offered more often by commercial plans.
Intergroup officials cite studies showing seniors benefit from
light weight-training and aerobic workouts. Officials of the

Tucson-based HMO say encouraging Medicare beneficiaries to belong
to a club will:

o        Help prevent illness and injury;
o        Assist the plan in managing medical
conditions, including high blood pressure, diabetes and other
chronic conditions; and
o        Offer seniors a positive environment
for socializing, which is particularly important for the well-being
of seniors who have recently relocated or lost a family member.

HCFA approved the benefit last month. Intergroup may be one of the
only Medicare HMOs offering such a benefit, according to Intergroup
and HCFA officials.
The HMO provides health club memberships free to enrollees of its
zero-premium SeniorCare plan and SeniorCare high-option plan, in
Phoenix and Tucson.
HealthCare Dimensions Inc. of Tempe, which will manage the program
and conduct evaluations and satisfaction surveys of SeniorCare
enrollees, customizes its "provider networks of health clubs" to
serve managed care organizations. The health club management
company performs third party administration, design and quality
assurance of the benefit for HMOs.
Contact Sally Allison of Intergroup at (520) 751-5801, or Lynn
Lejcher of HealthCare Dimensions at ((602) 966-5412.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

FEDERAL & STATE BRIEFS


       HCFA is soliciting organizations for
a capitated managed care pilot project to treat Medicare
beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease. Applicants will
integrate acute and chronic care services through expanded
community care management and meet state requirements for bearing
financial risk. For the three-year demo, HCFA will pay participants
a capitated rate, adjusted for beneficiaries' treatment status. The
agency plans to give $175,000 to each participant, and expects to
choose up to four participants. HCFA could announce participants
this summer. Contact Bonnie Edington at (410) 786-6617.

       Watch for HCFA to announce this
month a Medicare "centers-of-excellence" program for cardiac and/or
orthopaedic care, according to HCFA Administrator Bruce Vladeck.
The program currently bundles payments to designated coronary
artery bypass graft and cataract surgery facilities and gives
seniors who choose such facilities a rebate.

       Federal lawmakers attempting to
salvage Medicare reform want to delay implementation of a minimum
Medicare capitation rate. A bipartisan House group is crafting a
new proposal that would set a $300 payment floor in 1997 and $350
in 1998, a year later than under the vetoed GOP budget bill. GOP
leaders also circulated a draft proposal that would let Medicare
capitated plans charge beneficiaries extra premiums if plan costs
exceeded the capitation rate.

       The nation's governors this month
unanimously approved a Medicaid reform outline that would let
states move to managed care without federal permission.
Congressional leaders are putting the proposal in legislative form
and have planned committee action for late February. House Speaker
Newt Gingrich (R-Ga) predicts Medicaid reform, which could move
forward without Medicare, could pass in March, but patient
advocates already are fighting the effort.

       HCFA officials are wrapping up
analysis of abstracted chart reviews at 23 HMOs in five states. The
reviews are part of the agency's effort to improve the quality
measurement system that peer review organizations (PROs) use to
evaluate Medicare HMOs. The agency will share the analysis with the
HMOs and PROs so they can to improve measurements of care for
Medicare beneficiaries with diabetes.

       Tennessee adopted a rule Jan. 31
that requires all managed care plans, including those in the
TennCare program, to cover high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell
transplants for certain breast cancer patients.

       Medi-Cal HMOs vary widely in the
amount of care they provide low-income enrollees, according to a
recent study by the Los Angeles-based Center for Health Care
Rights. The average number of physician encounters per Medi-Cal
enrollee in 1994 ranged from 0.37 for Universal Care to 5.14 for
Kaiser Permanente Southern California. The average for all 18 HMOs
studied was 3.5. Contact Jennifer Yang at (213) 383-4519.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

INDUSTRY BRIEFS


       United HealthCare Corp. of
Minneapolis signed a definitive agreement to acquire
Nashville-based HealthWise of America Inc. HealthWise owns HMOs in
Maryland, Kentucky, Tennessee and Arkansas, and has received
approval to expand its operations into Virginia and Washington.
United says the agreement will provide United with the opportunity
to expand services to Medicare beneficiaries through HealthWise's
existing Medicare HMO in Maryland. HealthWise also submitted an
application to HCFA to operate a Medicare HMO in Tennessee,
according to a HealthWise official. Contact Bernard McDonagh of
United at (612) 936-7214.

       Just a few days later, HealthWise of
America Inc. signed a letter of intent to develop and manage a
Medicaid HMO in the District of Columbia to be known as Capital
Community Health Plan. Capital is owned by five district hospitals.
Contact HealthWise's Harold Simpson at (615) 385-4666.

       All financial planning relating to
Medicare HMO capitation rates should be based on projections of the
local adjusted average per capita costs, not the U.S. per capita
cost of treating Medicare beneficiaries, says a new Coopers &
Lybrand report. Contact Sue Palsbo at (202) 822-4000.

       The American Managed Behavioral
Healthcare Assn. and a number of other groups are developing
standards for use by public agencies when writing RFPs for managed
behavioral health care services. The groups want to limit problems
associated with sometimes unclear program guidelines put out by
states and other public entities. The effort is designed to help
agencies clarify requirements. Contact the association's Clarke
Ross at (202) 434-4565.

       PHP Healthcare Corp. of Reston, Va.,
completed the sale of interest in its subsidiary, Chartered Health
Plan of Virginia, to University Health Services, which is an
affiliate of Medical College of Virginia. University will invest $3
million in Chartered of Virginia in exchange for a 30% equity
interest. Chartered, modeled on D.C. Chartered Health Plan Inc.
Medicaid HMO, operates in the Richmond and Tidewater areas of
Virginia. Unlike the D.C. plan, Chartered of Virginia will have a
Medicare product as well. Contact PHP President Jack Mazur at (703)
758-3600.

       CareAmerica Health Plans, Group
Health Cooperative of Puget Sound, Medica Health Plans, Oxford
Health Plans and Sentara Health System on Feb. 8 received grants
from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to develop innovative
volunteer programs for their elderly members. Awards totalled
$616,246 for the three-year project. The service credit-banking
programs will allow the HMOs to better respond to Medicare
beneficiaries' needs for non-medical services, such as
transportation and shopping (MMM 2/5/96, p. 2). Contact Marc Kaplan
of the foundation at (609) 243-5937.

       National Prescription Administrators
Inc., an East Hanover-N.J.-based prescription drug management firm,
launched a program to support retiree/geriatric services, called
SILVERx CARE. The program aims to improve current physician
prescribing practices and offer information services to geriatric
patients, who often suffer from more than one disease state. The
firm's program expands its clinical arm to assist physicians in
maximizing efficacy. Contact Patricia Kearns, public relations
manager, at (201) 503-1000.

       Omnia Inc., a Blue Bell, Pa.-based
women's healthcare network firm, has launched a regional network of
physicians specializing in obstetrics and gynecology in New Jersey.
Omnia, which has contracts with managed Medicare and Medicaid
organizations, assembled a similar network last summer in the
five-county Philadelphia area. On Jan. 26 the firm sent
applications to 1,300 ob/gyn specialists in New Jersey to join the
newly formed network. Contact John Reiff at (215) 567-4551.

       Correction: The Recuperation Skills
Training Center at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Sacramento
helped the health plan reduce its average length-of-stay for a
radical retropubic prostatectomy from seven days to four. An
article in the Jan. 19, 1996, issue reported the length-of-stay for
a different procedure.

       Correction: Florida Medicaid's move
to reflect age bands in its fee structure to Medicaid managed care
plans is expected to save the state $65 million this fiscal year.
An article in the Jan. 5, 1996 issue reported an incorrect savings
amount.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "11"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Medicare Risk HMOs with Biggest Monthly Enrollment
Growth (For the month ending Jan. 22, 1996)

Source: HCFA

Plan,  Location, Enrollment for Latest Month, Contract Date, Total Enrollment

Share Health Plan of Ill., Chicago,     8,049, 7/1/84, 44,586
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Oakland, 7,097, 4/1/94, 121,918
Rochester Area HMO, Rochester,, N.Y.,   5,680, 11/1/85, 14,739
Keystone Health Plan East, Philadelphia,5,471, 1/1/93, 50,651
Oxford Health Plans, New York,          4,255, 10/1/91, 66,399
Keystone Health Plan West, Pittsburgh,  3,723, 3/1/95, 23,359
U.S. Healthcare Systems of Pa., Blue Bell,, Pa., 
                                        3,323, 11/1/85, 50,838
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Ohio, Cleveland, 
                                        2,890, 1/1/97, 19,349
HMO of New Jersey (South), Moorestown,, N.J., 
                                        2,735, 9/1/93, 22,724
Group Health Plan, St. Louis,           2,538, 11/1/95, 2,538
PacifiCare of Calif., Los Angeles,      2,328, 6/1/85, 280,663
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Los Angeles, 
                                        2,127, 8/1/87, 157,702
PacifiCare of Calif., Northern Calif.,  2,096, 2/1/92, 75,080
HIP of New Jersey, North Brunswick,, N.J., 
                                        1,968, 1/1/96, 1,968
Aetna Health Plans of Central/East Pa., Eastern and Central Pa.,
                                        1,810, 6/1/94, 6,352




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "12"></A>Copyright
MANAGED MEDICARE AND MEDICAID via NewsNet
February 16, 1996

Change of Mindset Required to Manage Dual Eligibles


Operators of PacifiCare of Florida's Independ- ence Plan have had
to change their mindset and  operations in managing care for
Medicare/Medicaid dual eligibles.

Independence Plan Director Mary Guthrie advises HMOs eyeing
long-term care management to:

o        Work and educate out-of-network
providers in addition to network providers. In Florida, most
eligibles can see non-network physicians.
o        Contract with social service
providers. Commercial HMOs and even traditional Medicaid managed
care models don't contract with non-health care entities, but meals
and adult day care providers are essential to dual eligibles.
o        Rewrite marketing materials. The HMO
had to rewrite promotion materials at a 4th grade level and produce
materials in both Spanish and English.
o        Case manage differently.
Independence Plan case managers develop long-term relationships
with enrollees. They also must use social service providers and
networks.
o        Take more time to enroll
individuals. Forget mass-marketing this population.
o        Change mindset regarding utilization
management. This population becomes very tied to providers. While
traditional utilization management would not allow a provider to
refer patients to non-network providers, a plan for dual eligibles
may not want to be as vigilant. The extra step may keep dual
eligibles enrolled.

Guthrie says to get good economies of scale, a plan needs to be a
risk for both Medicare and Medicaid. Under the Florida program, the
plan is put at risk for only Medicaid.




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT04-B01-34</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA059-000327-B011-413</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://newsnet.com:80/libiss/hh24.html 205.156.212.5 19970115024352 text/html 36386
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Commerce/1.12
Date: Wednesday, 15-Jan-97 02:42:05 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 24-Oct-96 22:50:12 GMT
Content-length: 36197
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>/data/webdev/libiss/hh24.html Sample Issue</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="FFFFFF">
<FONT SIZE = 3>
<A NAME=HeadList"></A>
Copyright <BR>
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet <BR>
JANUARY 18, 1996<BR>
SAMPLE ISSUE HEADLINES<BR><BR><BR>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#1"><LI>New Jersey Releases Hospital-Specific C-Section Rates</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(338 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#2"><LI>AMA Delegates Defeat Mandatory Point-of-Service Proposal</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(150 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#3"><LI>Colorado Coronary Care Consortium Has its Plug Pulled</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(332 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#4"><LI>Critical Pathways:  Perhaps Ineffective, But Here to Stay </A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(284 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#5"><LI>HMO Medical Director Faces Felony Charge Because Not Licensed in Florida</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(334 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#6"><LI>Patients May Also Be at Risk When Docs Are Paid Capitated Rates</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(316 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#7"><LI>HMO Opens Health Centers In Medically Underserved Neighborhoods</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(322 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#8"><LI>HMOs Mislead Medicaid and Medicare Patients, Says NYC Official</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(273 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#9"><LI>DEVELOPMENTS IN BRIEF</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(962 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
<BR>
<UL>
<A HREF = "#10"><A HREF = "#10"><LI>REPORT FROM THE FIELD:  Consulting Firm Produces Health Plan "Report Cards"&nbsp;for Employers</A>&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp<NOBR>(1864 words)</NOBR></LI>
</UL>
</UL>
</FONT>
<BR><BR>
<HR>
<PRE>
<A NAME = "1"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

New Jersey Releases Hospital-Specific C-Section Rates


The primary, or first-time, cesarean section rate for New Jersey hospitals was
17.67 percent in 1994, down from 18.23 percent in 1993, according to a
hospital-specific report released by the New Jersey Hospital Assn.  that
covers 67 acute care hospitals.  This is the first release of
hospital-specific clinical data in NJHA's 77-year history.

The 17.67 rate (see chart, next page) is down from 18.23 percent in 1993, but
is higher than the national average of 15 percent and higher than the 17.02
percent for the rest of the Northeast, says NJHA.  The c-section rate ranged
from a 1994 high of 28.12 percent (LHS-Meadowlands Hospital) to a low of 9.73
percent (Memorial Hospital of Salem).

The results are particularly meaningful, says NJHA, because primary c-sections
most accurately reflect medical indications and not patient preference.  In
addition, the NJHA report provides a variance rate for each hospital, which
shows the difference between the hospital's predicted rate - based on such
risk-adjustment factors as socioeconomic conditions and demographics and the
medical condition of the mother and baby - and its actual rate.  The report
then indicates whether each hospital performed fewer or more first-time
c-sections than predicted.  Nonetheless, the study "is not flawless,"
acknowledges NJHA.  Rates are based on code information submitted by hospitals
as part of the Uniform Billing data, but not every hospital codes the same
way.  A task force of New Jersey obstetricians is currently developing
consistent definitions for diagnoses and guidelines for when such coding
should be used.  New Jersey hospitals, says the Association, will work with
physicians and the public to lower the number of c-sections by:

* endorsing active labor management; * increasing peer reviews; and *
encouraging physicians to turn babies while still in utero.

NJHA will also initiate an educational program for consumers, particularly
those many women who have had previous c-sections and refuse to try a VBAC
(vaginal birth after cesarean) delivery.  Brochures on c-sections will be
distributed to obstetricians and hospitals across the state.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "2"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

AMA Delegates Defeat Mandatory Point-of-Service Proposal


The American Medical Assn.  will not use its influence to try and force all
managed care plans to provide a point-of-service (POS) feature for all
enrollees at all times.  A move to do so was voted down by the AMA House of
Delegates in a contentious battle.

Favoring access to providers outside a plan at any time were many specialty
societies whose members have seen their practices eroding and who feel that
such access for a reasonable additional copayment benefits patients.  Among
those against mandatory out-of-network access were physicians who have formed
their own health plans in competition with HMOs.  Others felt that mandatory
POS plans would greatly increase plan expenses.

Existing AMA policy, affirmed by the House of Delegates, endorses the
proposition that patients be given the option to elect or reject a POS option
when joining a plan and during annual open enrollment.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "3"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

Colorado Coronary Care Consortium Has its Plug Pulled


The Rocky Mountain Heart Consortium, which has been collecting data relating
to heart disease from Colorado hospitals in order to determine and compare
quality of care, closed its doors December 31 because of lack of funding for
continued operations.

The nonprofit Consortium, made up of Colorado hospitals, physician groups, and
community members, was founded in 1991 to maintain a high level of quality and
to keep costs down.  This past year, when contributions were asked of 14
Colorado hospitals, only eight signed up.  When it became evident that there
would be financial problems and lack of wide support, the Consortium's board
of directors decided to end its mission.

During the Consortium's existence it was instrumental in decreasing the number
of open heart surgeries in the state.  It also restrained hospitals from
purchasing potentially profitable - but unnecessary - equipment.  One
researcher for the Consortium told UM that the major reason the Consortium
went out of business is a change in climate in Colorado since the Consortium's
inception; namely, hospital mergers and the emergence of managed care.  "The
bottom line is cost," she said.  "Perhaps we'll come around to quality again -
but it's not happening right now."  Managed care isn't interested in seeing
data, she adds, because they "know" they are giving good care.

The demise of the Consortium and its data collection capabilities coincides
with the Colorado Health Data Commission being voted out of existence by the
state legislature.  Soon it will only be hospitals gathering their own data -
and there will be no mechanism for comparisons, says a spokesperson for the
defunct Consortium.

A Denver Post editorial places a lot of blame on the Colorado Hospital Assn.
for contributing to the deaths of the Health Data Commission and the
Consortium.  "The death of the Heart Consortium, a casualty of parsimony and
fear in the health care sector, is but an early warning sign of even more
troubled times ahead," the editorial says.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "4"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

Critical Pathways:  Perhaps Ineffective, But Here to Stay 


While critical pathway programs being used by the nation's health care
organizations affect the care of thousands of patients daily, there is no hard
evidence of their effectiveness, according to an analysis that appears in the
Dec.  15 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine.

The authors of the Annals study, who practice at Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, and Partners Community Health Care in Boston,
believe that critical pathways hold promise for reducing costs and improving
quality.  And managed care organizations are increasingly pressuring hospitals
to use pathways to deal with unexplained variations in medical practice and to
improve care.

Despite the growing popularity of pathways, "no controlled study has shown a
critical pathway to reduce the duration of hospital stay or to decrease
resource use, nor has any study shown critical pathways to improve patient
satisfaction or outcomes," the researchers say.  In addition, they point out
that many physicians view critical pathways as "cookbook medicine."

Uncertainties aside, pathways are a tool that is here to stay.  Therefore, the
researchers offer some ideas on how best to implement them.  If critical
pathways are to live up to their promise, "full and informed participation of
physicians" in the development of critical pathways is necessary.  The
researchers suggest that a "physician-expert" lead the multidisciplinary team
that develops a critical pathway.  Such a physician, they say, lends
credibility and "builds a foundation of support among all clinicians."

The researchers also explain their approach to critical steps in the pathway
development process, including evaluating current care processes, evaluating
medical evidence and the practices of other providers, and structuring the
critical pathway in a way that is "user friendly."




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "5"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

HMO Medical Director Faces Felony Charge Because Not Licensed in Florida


The medical director of a Florida-based HMO responsible for overseeing the
plan's UM decisions got into big trouble because he wasn't licensed to
practice medicine in the state.

Roger Strube, MD, the former medical director of AV-Med Health Plan, who is
licensed in Indiana and Wisconsin, is charged with approving and/or
recommending courses of medical care and treatment in violation of a Florida
law prohibiting the unlicensed practice of medicine.  He is also charged with
violating a requirement of the state's HMO regulatory body, the Agency for
Health Care Administration, that prepaid Medicaid health plan medical
directors hold a valid state license to practice medicine.

Strube is pleading not guilty to the felony charges in what GHAA/AMCRA calls
"perhaps the first case of its kind in the country."

Strube is not in violation of any law, insists Richard Dorff, executive
director of the Florida Assn.  of HMOs.  He tells UM that under the relevant
state statute, the professional judgment of a physician licensed in Florida
concerning the proper course of treatment of a health plan member "should not
be subject to modification by the [managed care] plan or its board of
directors or administrators .  .  ."  However, it goes on, the statute "shall
not be considered to restrict a utilization management program established by
an organization."  And that's all that Strube was doing, says Dorff -
utilization management.  He adds that the attending physician has the sole
responsibility for attending the patient, but that the statute doesn't
preclude a medical director from reviewing clinical criteria with the
physician.

Subsequent to the charges being brought against Strube, and because of the
case, Medicaid contracts have to stipulate that the chief medical director of
a commercial HMO must be licensed in the state.  Another law requires that
doctors using telemedicine must be licensed in Florida.

Is there a movement in Florida to thwart the benefits of managed care?  "It
certainly could be interpreted as such," says Dorff.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "6"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

Patients May Also Be at Risk When Docs Are Paid Capitated Rates


Physician groups that have capitated payment arrangements directly with HMOs
enjoy practicing medicine without payers' interventions in their medical
decisions.  These arrangements, though, raise eyebrows in some quarters about
utilization and quality of care.

Six California medical groups paid by capitation are subjects of a study
appearing in the Dec.  21 New England Journal of Medicine.  Researchers found
that the groups have relatively low rates of hospital utilization and
physicians per enrollee.  The study also notes that managing utilization
through the groups' own medical directors and physician committees creates a
cooperative rather than an adversarial approach to utilization management.

The same issue of NEJM presents results of a telephone survey of 138 managed
care plans from 20 metropolitan areas nationwide.  Among the findings:  "Fifty
percent of the group or staff HMOs and 74 percent of the network or IPA HMOs
adjusted payments [to physicians] according to utilization and cost patterns."

In an accompanying editorial, Steffie Woolhandler, MD, and David Himmelstein,
MD, oft-quoted critics of the health care system, look at risk-sharing
arrangements and acknowledge the attractiveness of doctors, not insurance
executives, managing medical care.  They bemoan the idea, though, that some
doctors will boost their incomes by suppressing the use of services.  "If we
shun the sick or withhold information to benefit ourselves, we conspire in the
demise of our profession," they note.  "Let us not end up like tobacco-company
executives, who, repenting their sins, find that their contracts forbid
confessing them."

Himmelstein, a single-payer health plan advocate, was relieved of his duties
at U.S.  Healthcare effective February 26 because, he says, he violated a
confidentiality clause prohibiting member physicians from saying anything that
could undermine confidence in the plan.  The editorial he co-wrote includes
some disparaging statements about his soon-to-be former employer's gag rules,
profits, chief executive salary, and percentage of income that is spent on
health care.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "7"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

HMO Opens Health Centers In Medically Underserved Neighborhoods


Oxford Health Plans is opening two community-based health centers in New York
City, the managed care organization announced last week..  Each will be
staffed with at least five board-certified physicians who will serve all
Oxford members, "but particularly those members living in the two low-income
communities currently underserved by physicians and other quality health
professionals," says David Snow, the managed care company's executive vice
president.

One center is scheduled to open this March in the Mott Haven section of the
Bronx, an area with only 42 primary care physicians, or one doctor for every
5,525 people.  Five new physicians, who are members of a professional
corporation under contract to Oxford, increases the number of doctors by 12
percent.  The site, which once housed a supermarket, is being renovated at a
cost of about $1.8 million, according to Oxford.

The other center, to open in June in the Brownsville/East New York section of
Brooklyn, a former furniture building, will be renovated at a cost of about
$1.5 million.  In addition to professional staffing, both centers will have
onsite lab drawing stations and dental and radiology facilities.  They will
maintain a community room and help organize outreach programs to improve the
quality of life in the neighborhoods.

Oxford went the health center route because there is a potential for clients
in the neighborhoods, but no network in place serving the Medicare and
Medicaid population.  "We thought it would be advantageous to the community to
actually put a facility there with doctors who meet our standards," says Bill
Ricco, director of all Oxford Health centers.

Oxford is making a large investment in the centers, and "we hope to at least
break even on it," says Ricco.  He adds that several other areas have been
identified in the New York metropolitan area for similar centers.  "Progress
will depend, to some extent, on what happens in Brooklyn and the Bronx."





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "8"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

HMOs Mislead Medicaid and Medicare Patients, Says NYC Official


A New York City politician doesn't like the advertising generated by HMOs.  A
study of marketing material from six Medicaid or Medicare HMOs led Public
Advocate Mark Green to refer several of the ads "that appear the most
misleading" to the state's attorney general for possible action.

"Our investigation showed that for some HMOs, the letters stand for 'Hyping
Medicine to the Old,'" says Green.  Examples of misleading ads, according to
Green, include "we are #1" data from one plan's survey being used to advertise
another of its plans.  Still other plans promise "something for nothing,"
ignoring the fact that to qualify for the Medicare managed care plans,
"recipients still have to pay their Medicare Part B premiums - a fact
conveniently buried in their marketing materials."

Oxford Health Plan of New York, one of the accused HMOs, retorts that every
advertisement and marketing brochure is reviewed and approved by city and
federal regulators.

In a separate Public Advocate report, Oxford did indeed come out Number One
with regard to the greatest number of primary care doctors and the largest
proportion who are board certified.  Not faring as well was the only nonprofit
HMO in the report, the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, which had
the greatest number of valid complaints from patients.  Almost all the HMOs
did not provide accurate basic information over the phone, says the report.
For example, patients had been told by two HMOs that they have 48 hours to
call for approval when admitted to a hospital emergency room, when in fact the
plan requires a call within 24 hours.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "9"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

DEVELOPMENTS IN BRIEF


A physician profiling bill that would provide $335,000 for the state medical
board to compile information for consumers about physicians, including their
malpractice history, passed the Massachusetts Senate in December.  The House
is expected to pass the legislation in about a month, prior to its expected
signing by Gov.  William Weld (R).

Case management guidelines to reduce medical costs, enhance health care
quality, and increase provider and patient satisfaction have been developed by
Aetna Health Plans in collaboration with the Individual Case Management
Association.  Aetna started with generic guidelines applicable to all cases
and then created specific ones for high-cost, catastrophic cases, such as
AIDS, high-risk pregnancy, organ transplants, brain injury, and spinal cord
injury.  There are separate guidelines for workers' compensation cases.
Copies of the case management practice guidelines may be obtained from Mosby,
Inc.  by calling 800/633-6699.

HEDIS should provide a mechanism for companies to track their own quality
improvement rather than compare individual plans in a way that implies one's
superiority over another, according to USQA, the research arm of the managed
care company U.S.  Healthcare.  An article in USQA Quality Monitor shows how
U.S.  Healthcare used HEDIS to improve its rate of giving retinal exams to
diabetics.  After consecutive years with rates of only 35.1 percent and 35.9
percent, letters were sent to physicians and to diabetic patients reminding
them of recommendations for yearly exams.  The percentage for 1994 jumped to
41.6 percent, even though the quality improvement program was not implemented
until mid-year.

Boston's Beth Israel Hospital and Harvard Medical School have formed a
foundation for research and medicine in order to avoid overlapping of the
academic and clinical missions of both institutions.  The restructuring of the
longstanding relationship between the two institutions was deemed necessary
because of declining financial support for medical education and the changing
methods of delivering and paying for health care.  Cost-cutting and clinical
treatment beyond the usual bounds of the teaching hospital are making some of
the traditional strategies for training doctors obsolete, say hospital and
school spokespersons.

Female heart attack patients received clot-busting drugs nearly one-half hour
later than their male counterparts, according to a two-year study conducted at
two suburban Michigan hospitals, which is reported in the January issue of
Annals of Emergency Medicine.  In addition, more than half the men received an
ECG within 15 minutes of arrival to the emergency department, while less than
40 percent of women were tested during this time.

Maternity stay legislation is expected to be considered in the 1996
legislatures of the following states:  California, Connecticut, Delaware,
Florida, Hawaii, Iowa, Maine, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Rhode
Island, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin.  Meanwhile, on its own, George
Washington University Hospital in Washington DC plans to permit women who have
normal deliveries to remain hospitalized for as long as two days - a day
longer than most managed care plans pay for.  "We felt it was time for the
clinicians to be ahead of the legislators, and not necessarily have something
mandated," says Keith Ghezzi, the hospital's medical director.

Increasingly, medical resources are being used on patients with somatic
symptoms that have no pathophysiological explanation.  The reasons include
little financial disincentive to seek treatment because of enrollment in a
prepaid health plan and lower tolerance of mild symptoms and benign
infirmities.  A report in the Dec.  27 Journal of the American Medical Assn.
says that a gatekeeper primary care physician could make it easier to detect
and control physician shopping and to prevent fragmented care, excessive
testing, and the overuse of specialty consultations.  "Medical personnel need
to remind both their patients and the public that not every symptom denotes
disease, and despite modern biomedicine's stunning advances, there remains a
great deal it cannot cure," say the researchers.

There is evidence that competitive pricing among HMOs brings rewards to their
customers, according to a just-released market report by InterStudy.  For
example:  It appears that family premiums are lower in markets with high
enrollment growth.  And, on average, medical expense ratios tend to be lower
in markets with low industry penetration but with a greater number of HMOs.

Regardless of the budget debate outcome, the growth of Medicare managed care
is expected to continue, says a spokesperson for The Managed Care Information
Center.  Currently, the largest managed care provider for a Medicare
population is PacifiCare with 481,365 subscribers in the West, Northwest, and
Southwest, according to an enrollment study by the Center.  Next in order of
size are FHP with 369,305 subscribers; Kaiser Foundation HP, with 353,455
covered lives; Humana Group Health Plan, with 307,155 members; and U.S.
Healthcare, with 72,192 subscribers.

Managed care tends to prevent people with rare diseases from being referred to
university-affiliated hospitals, the institutions most likely to have
physicians familiar with such diseases, says the National Organization for
Rare Disorders.  The consequences, according to NORD, are denial of access to
specialists, young doctors not being trained to recognize rare disorders and
their treatment, and the severe economic problems of teaching hospitals which
may force many of them to close.

Disease management techniques (UM 12/21/95) are now being used with organ
transplants.  Sandoz, a pharmaceutical company that manufactures a drug that
helps prevent organ rejection, and Value Health, a provider of specialty
managed care benefit programs, have joined forces to design and offer
programs, products, and services that will help health care providers enhance
patient care, further improve organ survival rates, promote organ donation,
and manage costs.

The National Institutes of Health have turned out to be a winner in the budget
battle with a 5.8 percent increase in funding for a full fiscal year.  In an
about face, Republicans determined that biomedical research fosters economic
growth.





<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
<A NAME = "10"></A>Copyright
MEDICAL UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT via NewsNet
JANUARY 18, 1996

REPORT FROM THE FIELD:  Consulting Firm Produces Health Plan "Report Cards"
for Employers


Taking advantage of employers' hunger for information on health plans'
performance, the employee benefits consulting firm Hewitt Associates recently
launched its own health plan "report card" involving plans in 75 markets and a
proprietary set of performance indicators.

To date, 130 large national employers have signed on for Hewitt's Health Value
Initiative (HVI), which was rolled out in early December.  Participants
include such Fortune 500 companies as Marriott International, IBM, and United
Airlines.  The fee depends on what a company wants in how many markets, but is
less than if the regional reports had to be customized, says a Hewitt
spokesperson.

HVI has been designed to simplify the plan evaluation process by providing
participating employers with regional cost and quality of care scores for each
plan offered in a region.  Results will be available in late March (see figure
1, next page), but if an employer wants additional updates, Hewitt will work
with it on an individual basis.

Financial Index

For the HVI, Hewitt is using its own performance indicator sets, dubbed the
"Financial Index" and "Quality Index."  The Financial Index is an actuarial
study that determines the economic value of each plan.  It is based on
premiums adjusted for location, enrollee demographics, dependent coverage,
plan design, and managed care efficiency.  ("Managed care efficiency" refers
to the efficiency of the mix of plans a large employer offers - typically HMO,
point-of-service (POS), and indemnity.  An employer who knows relative
efficiencies may want to look at the direction in which it should be steering
employees.)

With the Financial Index, the employer is able to determine whether a plan
provides good economic value, says Tom Beauregard, principal in Hewitt's
Rowayton CT office and chief architect of the HVI.  "We are testing the value
of a plan's cost relative to the population enrolled in that plan.  So we look
at the age of the population, male/female distribution, number of dependents,
and geographic location of enrollees.  We are basically coming back to the
employer to say whether this is good or bad economic value based on this
actuarial study.  It's not a simple survey; it's a refined analysis of the
economic value of health plans being offered to employers."

"Employers," says Beauregard, "will also be able to see the range of economic
value that each of their health plans is offering other participating
employers.  We may say to a company that a health plan is offering a good
value in actuarial terms, but it's not the best value out there.  We can show
the range of economic values from the 30 or so companies within our study that
use this health plan.  In other words, two employers with the same health plan
can in fact be paying different amounts, depending on a number of factors,
including negotiating skill."

Quality Index

The Quality Index is based on a Request for Information (RFI) to the health
plans in the 75 markets, along with a scoring process.  The RFI asks for
measures of clinical quality (clinical processes, physician/hospital
management, and quality improvement and utilization), administrative
effectiveness (member services, access, ID card issuance, and post-65
coverage), and organizational effectiveness (provider compensation, financial
stability, membership, and National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA)
accreditation status).  An RFI will be sent out annually, but a health plan
has the opportunity to update its information at any time for inclusion in
Hewitt's ongoing database, says Beauregard.

An RFI was sent in mid-December to over 1,000 HMOs, POS plans, PPOs, and
indemnity plans in the 75 markets, and the results will be sent to employers
at the end of March.  The health plans are expected to answer all questions
because they have done so before on behalf of individual Hewitt clients and
because the questions are based largely on the familiar Health Plan Employer
Data and Information Set (HEDIS 2.5) developed by NCQA, the HMO accrediting
group.  Beauregard says that there are about 40 questions asked, half of which
are HEDIS.  If a plan has filed HEDIS information, it can just attach it to
the questionnaire rather than reanswer the questions for Hewitt.

Regarding authentication of responses relating to a plan's quality, Beauregard
says the RFI is very specific.  "In terms of utilization measures, we ask the
health plans to use the HEDIS 2.5 methodology for calculating rates.  If they
haven't used it, we ask them for their methodology - for kind of a paper audit
of the methodology."

The health benefits consultant doesn't expect to do onsite procedural audits
as part of the HVI.  But, he says, "we have gone through the study many times
with employers on their larger plans and frequently have gone onsite for
operational, procedural, and clinical audits.  But those audits for individual
employers tend to be for their largest plans that through a scorecard process
have a high variant compared to other plans.  So the Quality Index that is
part of the HVI is a great way for employers to trigger the plans for which
they want onsite audits.  The triggers typically are a large enrolled
population in that plan and how that plan did relative to other plans in the
same community."

Hewitt vs.  HEDIS

Beauregard insists that Hewitt in no way means to supplant, or compete with,
HEDIS.  He says that even though the HVI is new, Hewitt - which according to
NCQA, is a member of a HEDIS users' group - has been offering financial
scorecards to its clients for the past five years, and quality scorecards for
three.  A spokesperson for NCQA finds no fault with Hewitt's use of HEDIS
questions.

Beauregard adds that while HEDIS questions focus on utilization rates, such as
a child's immunization rate within the first two years of life, the Hewitt RFI
goes beyond that by asking questions about administrative effectiveness,
organizational stability, member services, products available, service area
information, provider compensation, and financial ratios of the health plan.
Data, Not Decisions

"We've found that on average 45 percent of each employer's plans cost more
than the community average," says Beauregard.  "If all of those plans achieve
average cost efficiency, employers could save 3 percent to 5 percent of their
total health care costs.  We've also found an average 18 percent difference
between the most efficient and least efficient health plans, making the
potential for savings even greater."

These figures obviously are not from the recently-initiated HVI.  "We've done
these kinds of studies in individual cases across the country for the last
several years," says Beauregard.  "This is the information we have extracted
from our database."

"We provide data findings and advice, but ultimately it's the employer that
makes the decision," says the Hewitt principal.  "An employer, for example,
may look at a plan and note that in his marketplace the plan has the highest
quality score and provides the highest economic value - but that he has a very
small part of his population in that plan.  The employer at that point may try
to encourage migration into that plan from other plans in that same
marketplace.  It comes down to the employers' objectives.

"What's customized about HVI is the employers' application of the findings.
There is no one answer for what employers do with the data.  The data provide
a regional description of the value of each health plan the employer is
offering.  What the employer does with that information is going to vary
across the board."

Whether cost or quality receives more attention depends on the employer, says
Beauregard.  He says that many large employers focus almost entirely on the
quality of care that's being delivered.  Others focus almost all their energy
on the economic efficiency of the plan.  Most employers fall somewhere
between.

An Employer's Perspective

Rohm & Haas, a global specialty chemical company headquartered in
Philadelphia, has signed on to Hewitt's Health Value Initiative and will
receive reports on about 30 health plans for all its U.S.  locations.  In
addition, the company is having Hewitt conduct onsite audits of health plans
at its three major locations:  U.S.  Healthcare for the Philadelphia area,
Sanus for Houston, and Humana for Louisville.  "It just gets too expensive to
audit everyone," says Lois Morris, BSN, manager of health care and disability
programs.

Morris says that U.S.  Healthcare is a natural for an audit because it is the
company's biggest health plan provider and will be used as a benchmark.  It is
also the plan with which employees are most satisfied.  On the other hand,
Sanus is also a natural because a Hewitt analysis and a satisfaction survey
have indicated problem areas.  "We work with Hewitt by building on previous
analyses," explains Morris.

Quality analyses weren't available not so many years ago under the old
indemnity system, says the company benefits administrator.  "We had to assume
that doctors practiced high quality medicine.  There was no attempt, unless
state by state, such as Pennsylvania's Health Care Cost Containment Council,
to measure quality."

"Primarily," says Morris, "we want to be comfortable that these very
profitable companies, such as U.S.  Healthcare, are delivering cost-efficient
and quality plans.  We look at the Health Value Initiative as an opportunity
to partner with the HMOs for improvement.  In other words, we are not
interested in saying an HMO's immunization rates or mammogram rates are low
for this area, and therefore we want money back.  We want the HMO to tell us
what they plan to do to increase that rate so that it exceeds local standards.
And then we want to relay this information back to employees in order to make
them comfortable with the choices that we are offering.  The unions are also
interested in that because neither do they want to hear complaints about
HMOs."

We also want to say to the health plan that we've given it ample opportunity
to improve, says Morris.  "We certainly would consider eliminating a plan that
shows no interest in improving the quality of health care delivery."

"The services of Hewitt do not come cheaply," adds Pat Coyle, director of
benefits and workforce strategies.  "But we feel it's money well spent when we
see an increase in quality.  The Health Value Initiative also lets us know how
our costs compare with the costs of other companies, and this puts us in a
good bargaining position."

HEDIS information, says Coyle, is only part of the basis for a clinical
assessment.  "Hewitt fine-tunes HEDIS information and takes it to another
level, adding what is important to our employee population."

Overall health care costs have been pretty flat over the past couple of years,
says Coyle, largely because 80 percent of the company's employees, thanks to
incentives, have enrolled in HMOs.  "We have to be able to go back to those
employees to assure them that we are working to improve the health benefit
program.

"And even though costs are flat, it's still a $50 million expenditure for the
company.  We can't continue to shell out that kind of money without some
quality indicators that give us confidence in our plans."  -KM




<A HREF ="#HeadList">Back to Headline List</A><BR>
<HR>
</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
